u2017-05-19-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. Have a seat. Dear Parliament, The 28th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that attila Gelencsér and Dezső Liberty will be here to help me. I welcome our dear guests and experts and all those who are monitoring our work today. It follows that the general debate and conclusion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2018 will follow. The bill is T/15381. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/15381/10. Available to all of them on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I now call on Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Here you go, notary.
u2017-05-19-1	Dear Parliament, Today's four-hour timeframe is divided into 82 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, 41 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 24 minutes for the LMP Group and 10 minutes for the independent Members.
u2017-05-19-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I am speaking first today from the Fidesz Group to Mr János Bencsik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-3	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! In the last two days, it has been said several times between the walls of the House that the 2018 budget is about people from work, families and security. As a representative of a single mandate constituencies, I considered it important to search the draft budget for 2018 and see how these three important issues, which are also important for sustainability, appear in practice, especially in rural practice. I tried to find the budgetary references that could bring about substantial changes in the Tatai Basin, in my own constituency, in 2018 both in the lives of people from work and in families, in terms of livelihoods, the increase of physical and mental resources needed to make a living, and in terms of the common security of all of us. I must say that it has been recorded as an important item in the background sections of the budget, that the wage increase continues both in terms of the guaranteed minimum wage and the minimum wage. This is important in our area because it exerts a pressure on the wages of workers in industrial parks in the competitive sector. As early as this year in 2017, this positive change was seen. I am quite sure that the wage increases made in the following year will have a positive impact on wage developments. But perhaps even more important, there are hundreds of billions in the chapter of the Modern Cities programme that provide the opportunity for infrastructure improvements to improve the competitiveness of the economic environment, the transport improvements that are a condition for the further expansion of existing industrial parks in the region, including Liony, Tatabánya and Tata. In addition, I have looked at the way in which the government's commitments previously entered into, how the conditions for improving vocational training, the conditions for financing favourable changes to the infrastructure of educational institutions in general, or the improvement of healthcare infrastructure, i.e. the conditions for hospitalisation in the region, can be found or not. I have to say that these issues can also be resolved in a reassuring way in 2018, and I have also found the background to these issues. I also think it is important that, if we encourage young people to start a family and take on children, there should also be a necessary funding and state aid background. I am thinking not only of tax incentives, but also of family tax relief, because it is already a standard practice, and the maximum rate of tax relief changes in a positive direction year after year. But it is also important that in prosperous economic areas, which not only provide livelihoods for young people born and living in them, but also from other parts of the country, thanks to internal mobilization, many arrive and want to make homes for themselves, but they do not know that they need family home support. There is also a significant increase in budgetary coverage. The effect of this can be seen in Tata, Tatabánya, as there are hundreds of new apartments and family houses. At the same time, it can be seen that local authorities also need to pay greater attention to the successful connection to these positive changes in order to ensure that prepared and cultivated areas are also available. I can encourage the local government leaders to continue to work on creating new residential areas in their own settlements and building new homes with the support of the CSOK, building new homes, as the development of the economy - at least in our area - will continue to be ensured in the coming year. Security. However, what we see is that our geopolitical relations are rather unstable, so it is important to keep the country's security and security of borders to an adequate standard. I am pleased that there is finally a substantial change at budgetary level, as the amount of budget lines for the country's security is increasing by HUF 100 billion. In particular, I saw that my own area, the only military object in my constituency, the Tata brigade, is one of the areas to be developed, and it is also important. Unfortunately, in the current situation, our soldiers do not necessarily live under rosy housing conditions and fulfil the obligations associated with their contractual military service. Thus, both in their care, in their supply conditions and in military technology and in defence equipment, a substantial change in the 2018 budget will be made in the coming year. I also looked for two items in the budget on which I spoke here in Parliament several times. One is the returning sources of Tata. Unfortunately, I couldn't find a specific budget line for this. But I would like to thank you for the substantial government action taken in the last year to eliminate the emergencies caused by the Tata resources returned after the mining stopped, as the Ministry of Interior has set up an operational committee to map the entire North Transdanubia using EU funds to identify the threat posed by the recurring karst sources - in Tata's case more than 50 - to the built environment and the security of the population. However, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable government to the fact that there are two very important points of intervention. One of them is the risk of an accident on National Highway 1, because on the crossing of Tata city there is an 8 meter diameter horn, a spring vent that worked before the 50s. [[8.10]] After the mining, the karst water nívó sank more than 100 metres, it was replaced after the mining stopped, the horn became alive again, and there are road breaks, which, although locally managed, will require hundreds of millions of HUF of intervention on the part of the Hungarian Road in order to prevent this emergency. So, with respect, I propose that a non-profit company operating the national road network should be provided with budget coverage in order to minimise the emergency situation. The second is the returning sources, which in the meantime built the city, which threaten its old meadows and meadows built in the 50-60-70s. There's houses, block houses, family houses, the sources are back, the water's going, it's looking for its way, it's threatening these residential buildings, people have to live in unworthy conditions, in emergency situations, it's also a security issue. So it would be necessary to put old drainage systems - natural streams of water, whether artificial channels - in order. For this reason, I have also called for an amendment to the honourable government to pay attention to this: security is linked not only to the protection of borders but also to the creation of safe housing conditions within the borders. Finally, I would also like to thank you for the fact that, in order to restore the old reputation and light of the wine region in Neszmély, the central budget has provided some HUF 300 million in the last year, so that the economic route serving as the main road for the wine region is in order, but it would also be necessary to provide support for the internal main road for the settlement of the village of Baj, which is the gate of the wine region, which can be moved from there to the vineyards. This is a tourism and economic development issue. Together, these investments can ensure that a sustainable countryside can also be established in the western part of the country, in the Transdanubia wine region in Neszmély, where the local economy, which is based on the values created by local farmers, can develop its colourful fabric. This will ensure the internal cohesion of the region itself, although industrial development and the operation of industrial parks are important for the urban population. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tamás Harangozó is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Vice-President of the Defence and Police Committee, I now wish to address these two areas of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Defence. And allow me to say that I know that everyone is very busy, although there are ministers of state, deputy ministers, various Commissioners and all sorts of people around the Hungarian government, I think it would have been an honor for the Members of Parliament - not only for the opposition, but also for the pro-government - that once there is a Parliamentary State Secretary in all ministries, perhaps he will last a few days while the budget is being debated and perhaps he will pay attention to the fact that something of substance is being said here in this House. They don't seem to be expecting this, not in the Homeland Department or the Homeland Department, at least not. The budget of the Ministry of Interior is briefly said to be a modest increase in the budget for the daily operation of the police and other bodies, and an abnormally large amount of 50 billion is presented in connection with the management of the migration situation. Obviously, we have only one doubt in this regard that, in a textual way, all we can know is that there are costs associated with the recruitment of three thousand new police officers or border officers at this abstraction level. This is, however, a vague description of what this money will be spent on in terms of spending 50,000 million forints. I'll give you an example: by the way, from the BM budget, we know that there is only one sign of renovation, the Gárdony Police Department with your HUF 200 million, and another line of HUF 50 billion, which we don't know exactly who will spend it on and what it will spend it on. I think this is also a mockery of the Hungarian Parliament, even if it is absolutely welcome that the home affairs area will receive extra money. What is outrageous here and at HM - I say here, instead of both chapters - is that the civil servant payroll has not been up for 10 years, both law enforcement and defence, yes, but its civil servants have not been rising for ten years, and this is visible from this budget. And the fact that you still write in the law that 69 thousand forints is the lowest civil servant wage that you are legally paying, I think it is a disgrace to this country. For you, I'm sure. So it's mostly public wages now that the public servant's wage is competing, and it's your responsibility, after all, for the last eight years. As far as prison is concerned, there are extra resources, that's great. I wanted to ask the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior here whether the news that I may remember correctly that four out of six new prisons have been cancelled, stopped, and according to the news - at least according to the news - they do not plan to do what is the reason for that. Is it because there is no planned coverage for the establishment of these institutions anyway? It's all over the news. The fact is that public procurement has been annulled because all offers were too high. The question is whether or not the intention has passed, but when it is expected. I would also like to ask you this professionally - or I would ask - because in the process of hiring hundreds of people, they trained hundreds of people in Eastern Hungary to be Bvs, who are now standing there, that the institute to which they would have been admitted has not started to be built, and according to the news, these people are being sent to other parts of the country. This is not why they were contracted, it is not why they were installed; we draw attention to the fact that once again there will be a wave of disarmament, if this case is handled in this way, so it would be good to have an answer to whether these institutions will be built or not. As far as the chapter of the Ministry of Defence is concerned, I have repeatedly said in the media this week that I am shocked to hear the success propaganda that Minister Simicskó and the pro-government spokespersons are doing in this area. They need great modesty. To great modesty! First of all, I would like to point out that 100 billion forints and 73 billion forints are not the same. And if someone doesn't know the difference between the two, then I suggest to Mr. Simicskó - the article was published just in the Hungarian Times - or to the owner and editor-in-chief of the Hungarian Times to pay the difference in pocket, i.e. the loose HUF 27 billion between HUF 100 and HUF 73 billion. One. Two: almost 25 billion out of 73 billion have also been labelled to address the migration situation, which does not even show what this money will do in the Home Affairs budget. We have no idea what it's going to do, but the most pressing problem of defence, the day-to-day operation, or, as my fellow Member said, placement, improvement of the conditions of the stock or technical procurement, I highly doubt it; they will probably be able to pay the overtime that soldiers are spending at the border. I'm saying it would be a great deal of modesty, because while you are proud to say that you have reached 1 percent of the Ministry of Defence's budget in proportion to GDP, I will now read to you what this huge achievement means. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that, by the last year of their government, eight years after the 2010 government change, they will almost reach the rate that they took over from the previous socialist government, which, as we know, destroyed everything, most of all, the defence. Compared to that, you've been doing the next thing for the last eight years. In 2010, it was 1.06 per cent, in 2011 0.97, in 2012 0.81, in 2013 0.77, in 2014 0.79. The low point was in 2015, so it was reduced to 0,75 in this government cycle and then rising to 0.85, followed by 0.95 and 1.06. Once again, by the last year of their government, the ratio was raised in eight years as it was taken over in 2010. This appears on the state, equipment, skills, morale and everything of the military every day. [[8.20]] I would say, you know, that modesty would be justified in this matter, because although we voted in favour of the increase in wages, the Minister himself admitted that the vast majority of this money in the budget for next year would be only enough to finance wage increases and their public burdens and overtime. This was personally acknowledged by the Minister at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee. There won't be any technical improvements. That's the army - and it's for the government, and it's obviously not for the unfortunate soldiers. [[Miklós Soltész: Why are they miserable! They're not miserable!]] - a Patymkin army, my fellow Members, which does not, for example, have a single carrier aircraft that could take off. I'm shocked. I'm shocked that you're running a success campaign when Csaba Hende took the oath in 2014 with a five-party agreement that the helicopter business would be fixed, but you didn't do anything, and without public procurement, three old Soviet helicopters from Russia were hanged from somewhere. Nothing's happened since then. He doesn't have flying skills, he doesn't have flying skills in this country. Neither the President of the Republic, as the commander-in-chief of the army, could be taken from A to B, nor our soldiers in Iraq could be brought home in transition. I'm only talking about this because they can't say there's no money. It's time to decide whether they want to take a little train or they want a plane for the soldiers. The two are about the same price. So you spend the money on all kinds of very important things, stadiums or small trains, while the Hungarian Defence Office is unable to perform its most basic tasks, not to mention the conditions under which they serve at the border. And to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we have spent more than a hundred billion forints on the fence. Over a hundred billion forints! The hundred billion forints weren't enough - every time I tell them to go down if they don't believe me, see for themselves - so that the service officers and soldiers can perform their service along the fence in decent conditions. From Soviet time, there are screens left in the middle of which a stove is placed, this is XXI. It is simply unacceptable in the century, and I would like to recommend to my honourable fellow Members that they spend a few hours there; they do not need a day, just a few hours. The assembled high-level peekers we see there are waste wood-bonded high-level peekers that are unworthy of the continuous service of Hungarian soldiers and police officers, while a few meters away from them money over HUF 100,000 forints has gone away for all kinds of technical equipment. We continue to demand that you earn a few hundred million forints in addition to the hundred thousand million, that each mile of at least five hundred meters, the containers used to accommodate the stock are kindly designed with a social room, a bathroom and a resting place. You know, we also know that this will be the task for a while, and we would like to see this done under fair conditions by the soldiers and the police serving there. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-05-19-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor from the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-19-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr President, he began by saying that few members of the broad state secretary-general and state-led faculty are present. Well, Congressman, let me make it factually clear that in the debate on the budget, the government's representation has always been secure, and there are currently three state ministers on the part of the government. If you look behind you, Congressman, you don't see too many Members in the benches of the MSZP. However, I would like to state factually that there was a time in the debate on the draft budget law for 2018 when no MSZP representative was sitting in the benches. With regard to the Member's professional comments: allow me to say on wages that a substantial wage increase has started in both domestic and defence areas, and this will continue in 2018. In the area of law enforcement, an average increase of 30 per cent has been made since 2015, followed by another 5 percentage points increase in 2016, in 2017, by another 5 percentage points, and if the Honourable Parliament adopts next year's bill, another 5 percentage points increase will be made. The same rates are true for the soldiers working in the defence area. In the area of law enforcement, wage increases affect about 58,300 people and 18,300 people in the defence area. Congressman said it was a shame that civil servants don't have wage increases. I would ask the Member to take a look at the proposal for a budget law before us and to talk to those who are affected by it. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention:]] Congressman, I hear your question. I respectfully ask you to read the proposal that we are discussing, and then you will learn from the bill that twice a 5 percentage point wage increase has already been made for law enforcement and defence civil servants, and this affects about 15 500 people. And let me also say, Congressman, that the pay table records pay categories, and it is also important to know that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage are... - which determines the multipliers according to the pay table, a higher amount shall be paid. What Congressman says is that there are gross salaries of 69 thousand forints, well, there is no such thing. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, according to the degree, must be paid to everyone, it is paid now, and it will be paid next year. And it should also be said that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have risen substantially again this year, the minimum wage will be 15 percentage points, the guaranteed minimum wage will be 25 percent, and next year the same increase will be 8 percent at the minimum wage and 12 percent at the guaranteed minimum wage. In other words, civil servants who are in the lowest pay categories have certainly experienced a wage increase this year, and they will also experience it next year. For this wage increase, the necessary resources in the area of civil servants will also be included in next year's draft budget law. Regarding the construction of prisons: indeed, several calls for public procurement have been declared ineffective due to too high prices. It should be noted here that when there is often a charge of corruption on the opposition side, because procurement is expensive, we also look at the fact that the government often considers procurement to be ineffective for the purpose of using public funds. Congressman, if you are looking for the source of investment, I suggest that you take a look at the proposed bill, the chapter justifications, and you will also see that the funding is available. Therefore, the cancellation did not have material reasons for not having the resources in the budget bill or this year's budget in the relevant appropriations. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, Mr President mentioned expenditure-related figures for GDP. On the one hand, the Member rightly said that after 2015, the chapter expenditure of the Ministry of Defence will increase by one tenth in proportion to GDP. But let us also put the question of how GDP is going to develop nominally. When you mention the spending on GDP in the previous period, Mr President, let us also mention that the global economic crisis has hit Hungary much stronger than most of the EU countries, and indeed there was a country whose GDP has not fallen during the economic crisis - for example, Poland - and it should also be noted that due to the economic expansion that we are counting on in 2018, we are calculating a substantial increase of more than HUF 70 billion in HM's budget, i.e. GDP itself is increasing, which would increase expenditure if GDP-related expenditure remained unchanged, and in addition, GDP-proportional expenditure is increasing. According to the current government decision, this would reach 1.79 per cent, but Minister Lazarus just announced yesterday that the government's aim is to achieve 2 per cent of GDP spending in 2024. As far as the absolute value of defence expenditure is concerned: Mr President, it is worth looking at what was done between 2002 and 2010 and what was the amount of expenditure, and it is worth comparing the current expenditure to this. And it is also worth seeing that within this much more than HUF 70 billion item of expenditure, a significant proportion of the resources are available for development, and not the increase in wages is taking the bulk of this development. [[8.30]] So I think, if we look at the budget of the Ministry of Interior and the importance of the areas mentioned by you, such as the construction of prisons or the implementation of wage increases, or if we look at the budget of the defence chapter from the aspect of wage increases or developments, then these two areas are exactly where the proposal for a budget law for 2018 can be well supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-19-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If we had to sum up the essence of the 2018 budget in one sentence, then we could say that the 2018 budget is primarily about families, people from work and the protection of our country, and the security of our citizens. Of course, Fidesz and KDNP, the governing parties will continue to provide all the support for the growth of workers and families in 2018. If we look at the cornerstones of the budget, it is also important to say, although the opposition often says so, it is not true that this is an election budget. After all, we see that the deficit-to-GDP ratio remains well below 3 per cent, the public debt will continue to decline, and the budget will contribute to ensuring balanced economic growth for the players in the Hungarian economy. What I would like to focus on in my speech is a small macroeconomic outlook and how the 2018 budget contributes to the growth of Hungarian families, how it supports Hungarian families. I'll start with the macroeconomic context. If we look at this, we can see that, unfortunately, Hungary did not perform well in this regard before 2010, we can see today that if we look at the Maastricht criteria for the introduction of the euro, Hungary is increasingly approaching these criteria. For example, when we look at the budget deficit, we have been meeting the Maastricht criteria for a long time, but we are also increasingly approaching the expected 60% in terms of the level of public debt. And the purchasing power of wages and pensions is in good condition. By the way, if we take a short look at this, we see that in developed Western European countries, which are members of the euro area, such as France, they have been unable to keep the budget deficit below 3 percent for years under the socialist government there. So in this respect, they are significantly more undisciplined than Hungary. We can also see that government debt has been released, which has been well over 60% of gross domestic product for a long time. So what we can see is that while many countries in Europe are experiencing fiscal indiscipline, Hungary has been pursuing a disciplined policy for years, in fact, since 2010. If the comparison is made with the period before 2010, this difference is even more visible. For example, if we look at the year 2007, we can see that Hungary had a budget deficit of over 3 percent in a significantly more favourable environment in the world economy. However, during the period when the world economy and the European economy were raging, in 2007, Hungary was able to make 0.6 percent progress before the global economic crisis started, with an average development of 2.7 percent in the European Union. So we can say that at the time before 2010, there was undisciplined farming, budget deficits were released, and in a much more favourable global economic environment, the EU's economic growth average was underdone. In this respect, there was a sharp change after 2010, because the government said that we would keep and be disciplined in terms of budget deficits, and that we would put the state's finances in order. That's what happened. Every year since 2010, the budget deficit has been below 3 percent. In fact, there have been years, not one, but more, when the budget deficit was down to less than 3 percent. However, the economy was able to grow and the public debt fell. The growth rate started in 2013, as a result of which the Hungarian economy is now on a stable growth path. In 2014, gross domestic product increased by 4 percent, by 3.1 percent in 2015 and by 2 percent in 2016. It is also important to note here that these growth indicators always exceed the average growth in the European Union, and sometimes they are higher than double the average growth in the European Union. By the way, this is expected in 17 and 18 as the average growth of the European Union is not expected to reach 2 percent this year, while Hungarian economic growth is expected to be around 4 percent. So what we can see is that, in addition to disciplined farming, we can significantly continue to grow in the European Union, while in 2010 we saw exactly the opposite processes. I think it is very important to mention that, in addition to budgetary discipline, of course, the 2018 budget includes the social policy objectives that are of particular importance to the government and the governing parties. Here I would like to mention, first of all, the support of families. After all, in the area of family and population policy, the promotion of childbearing continues to play a key role, in which more emphasis will be placed on supporting the childbearing intentions of our Hungarian compatriots living outside our borders in the 2018 budget, which at the same time serves to strengthen the Hungarian national identity, the relationship with the mother country. For this reason, the "18" budget also has a prominent role to play in reconciling family and work. This is where intraday care of children and the strengthening of the new crèche institution system play an important role. There are also significant resources for this in the next year's budget, both in terms of improving the financing situation and in terms of increasing nursery and kindergarten space. In addition, the priority is to promote family representation, support for organisations with this function in Hungary and across borders, such as the operation of the Network of Families, Chances and Voluntary Houses in line with government policy. If we look at the specific numbers for family support, what do we see? In 2018, the family tax relief of two children will continue to increase, from HUF 35,000 a month to HUF 40,000, which means a tax reduction of HUF 420 thousand a year for a family with two children. And as it has been since 2014, of course next year, family tax relief can now be deducted not only from taxes, but also from contributions. Of course, next year there will be a first-married tax reduction, and there will be a HUF 16 billion surplus for home creation compared to HUF 210 billion in 2017 in the next year's budget, thus HUF 226 billion will be available for home creation. In addition, the management of families will be supported by new tax cuts in 18; here it is enough to think only about reducing the VAT on the most important foods, as their range will continue to expand. Well, let's not forget the elderly. In 2018, a higher pension increase compared to this year's inflation is expected, as the government and the governing parties have undertaken to maintain the real value of pensions, which is why a 3 percent increase in pensions is expected next year. [[8.40]] In addition to the measures taken by the civil government to date, this is one of Europe's most important family support systems, including family tax relief, the biggest home-building programme in recent decades, including CSOK, State-supported preferential credit, the reduction of VAT on the construction of new dwellings and NOK 17 from NOK, the national home-building community. If we look at the statistics of the European Union on this, we can see that we are also doing well in this, because according to Eurostat data, we could fit on the EU platform in 2014 for the share of family money in all social benefits, as family support accounted for almost 12 percent of all social expenditure. We can therefore see that the state spends more on this purpose than any other country in our region, or even higher than ours, in Luxembourg and Ireland alone. So they only spent more money on family support in these two countries. If we look at the proportion of family spending compared to GDP, we can also see that this was 2.3 percent in 14 and was slightly below the EU-28 average, but thanks to the family policy measures taken since 2014, this will increase significantly by 2018. In the 2018 budget, the amount spent on family support is approximately HUF 1900 billion, which is nearly 5 per cent of GDP, 4.71 per cent. The distribution of this: 640 billion for family support cash benefits, child benefit, 360 billion forints for family tax benefits, 400 billion forints for family support services - for patronesses, nursery, kindergarten and children's meals - is 13 billion forints for the Erzsébet programme, 226 billion, as I said, for housing support, and 260 billion forints for the grandma pension programme. In this respect, it is also to be welcomed that inflation in the draft remains at a very low level, which is important for families. Returning to one sentence, we can see that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian budget are spending significantly more than the European Union average on family support. We can see that this budget and the Hungarian government support families not only in words but also in actions, we spend much more on family support than the neighbouring countries or the majority of the European Union countries. Overall, the 2018 budget is about families, people living on wages and salaries and the safety and insurance of all Hungarians. In addition, on the basis of the figures, the significant acceleration of Hungarian economic growth is expected to continue. This year, Hungary's GDP could grow by 4.3 percent, to a greater extent than this one next year. Thanks to the government's economic policy, we also manage to maintain and even improve Hungarian economic growth, helping our country to catch up with the more developed states of the European Union in all respects in the coming years. In light of all this, of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party can support the draft budget before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-19-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Miklós Soltész asked for the floor from the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-19-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Tamás Harangozó is not in the room, but there is a socialist Member, so I hope that you will receive the message that answers and complements the thoughts of the Minister of State of Bana. The answer to the question raised by Mr Tamás Harangozó about the need for the government to spend so much on building border roads, fences and watchtowers and other objects along the border. You have already received an answer, Mr President, and I hope you understand that wage increases will continue both in the defence and in the internal affairs, which has certainly been an important step in the series of recent years and in the coming year. I hope that you will also have an answer, or at least acknowledge, how the police's assessment of police personnel has changed in a positive direction since 2010 and this continues. Perhaps the most well-known is the police's activity, and it is most widely acknowledged that, on the one hand, they act hard, firm and fair, unlike in your time, when, say, in 2006, police forces were instigated on peaceful celebrations on 23 October, shooting eyes out and doing everything else. It's worth talking about. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Talk a little longer about it. It's not boring. Let's go! Let's go!]] Yeah, it's worth talking about and everything. It is also worth talking about why the change of judgment is important, because the country and the European Union have entered a life situation which, by the way, is greatly influenced by left-wing politics, by your pal, through your good friend, George Soros, which is based on migration. [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] If migration is not needed, at least we Hungarians [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The resolution was voted by the People's Party! That's the one little thing you're missing.]] We should not spend so much money on fences and fences, on the protection of the country, on tens and tens of billions, 100 billion, then much better, or even better, on other means, we could spend even more on domestic and defence resources. But your helper, your master, has decided to transform Europe in some way, transform it through migration, and they will not allow it to be changed. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It not only affects Europe, but it controls all of Europe, Soros and Simicska!]] They do not allow a country or groups of countries to defend themselves, thereby complying with EU legislation to protect Europe as a whole, and that is why the fence is needed. This is why we need the border protection that we thought we had finally broken down in 1990. We thought that this would no longer be necessary in any of Europe's states, but unfortunately, your left-wing European policy is something that has, by the way, been proven very well by the current vote in Brussels, I would add, by the representatives of the LMP. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The People's Party voted for him, Mr. Secretary of State. Why don't you talk about that? He wouldn't go through without them. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is why left-wing socialist thinking can also be monitored here in Hungary, which really requires a lot of tens of billions of taxpayers' money [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Your own party family rejects you!]] to use it to protect the country. But it is necessary, and we will do so, because we will not allow Hungary to change either ethnic or religious, in any other way, and we will resist mass migration. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Talk about this, too.]] Dear Parliament, The only socialist MEP in this room can be traced by shouting that they simply do not understand the gravity of this problem, they do not feel the weight of this problem. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Neither do you!]] and it is no accident that they vote against it in all respects and do not support the protection of the country, the security of the country. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Stop talking nonsense!]] However, on family policy issues, it is really important what the budget will do next year for pensioners, as the 3-percent pension increase that follows inflation keeps pensions in real terms compared to this year, but in the same way as in 2017, this year, it will also be possible to pay the pension premium in November, as a result of which, in the last six to six and a half years, I am again speaking to left-wing representatives, I have managed to return the 13th month pension that you have taken back in 2008-2009. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Where is the 13th month?]] This is an important step, which has meant a 10-percent increase in real value over the past years, and it is expected that this real value increase will continue this year and will continue next year. I would like to highlight one more point in any case in order to support and help people with family policy, which - I think - is not enough once, because most of all, it is your Member's woman who emphasizes the poverty, poverty and hunger in this country. If what you're saying is this big right now, what could it have been in your time? So, two and a half times the hunger? [[8.50]] I would like to point out to socialist left-wing representatives that in six to six years and a half, the rate of free or reduced meals has increased by two and a half times. This is important because there really are people in need in the country, there are really fallen and poor children in the country to help. This is why the support system that we launched in 2010 is continuing in this area, and I would like to emphasise once again, we have multiplied, the support has increased by two and a half times, and next year the support for free and reduced meals will be HUF 79.3 billion. I would add that we have extended this support system not only for the school period, but also for holidays and all holidays, so also for summer, winter and spring holidays. I think that all of these steps are designed to help families in need, but usually all those raising more children get help. Thank you very much, on the one hand, to the left-wing socialist Members, for the opportunity to say again how much both law enforcement and defence workers are doing in the interests of the country, and thank you for your work, your daily activities, but it is important that the majority of the government and, where appropriate, the Parliament support their activities through the budget, which is also true of the family support system. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would just like to point out that Mr Dezső Dezső MEP, the notary of the Parliament, is also present, so I must correct you from the point of view that there is no MSZP representative in this room. Thank you very much. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Gergely Kulcsár is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the 2018 budget defence chapter, and I would also like to talk about my related amendments. In advance, it could be said that unfortunately, the defence chapter does not contain anything new, there has been no breakthrough in any aspect of the army. As much as there is more funding for defence, it is largely covered by the expenditure related to the crisis caused by mass immigration, but there is no serious military development programme, but we cannot even find the germ of it in the budget of next year, the shortage of military personnel will not decrease, and the financial appreciation of our soldiers will be seriously damaged despite the small increases envisaged. It is important to know that in Hungary spending for military purposes decreased by more than 30 percent between 2006 and 2015, and here we are talking about four years of socialist and five years of Fidesz governance. It can be seen here that both MSZP and Fidesz are responsible for the demise of the defence. It is a small consolation that we are experiencing a minimum increase in this year's and next year's budgets, which, as I have already said, is mainly due to the migrant situation, an amount about 1 percent of GDP intended for defence for the future. You pro-government politicians are pleased to say that international obligations must be respected. This time, I would like to remind you once again that NATO expects us to spend 2% of GDP on defence spending. In this draft budget, as I have already mentioned, we are talking about a defence expenditure of around 1 per cent, but we are not only doing the NATO expectation below, but we also need to know that in order to have a defence of the country, in our situation today, this ratio should be close to 3 per cent for a few years, and the main amount of the defence chapter is totally unacceptable. Our Fundamental Law states that the Hungarians should be paid in proportion to their sacrifice. Despite the wage increases, this is still not achieved. In the future, we would like to increase your salary in proportion to the sacrifice of the soldiers. It would be an important step if the defense salary was raised. Currently, the defence salary base is 43 110 HUF as of 1 January 2018 according to the draft. According to our proposed amendment, this would increase to HUF 55,000. This is also important because people need to be financially attracted to military careers. I ask you to support this proposal. The number of staff is still not in place, we are lagging behind the appropriations, and there is no progress in the number of soldiers to be deployed, and the shortage of numbers is a lasting one. In order for this to change, it would require systemic changes beyond the salary increase. The biggest deficit in the defence budget is the small number of developments and the small amount spent on development. In addition, the Gripen lease is booked as a development, which amounts to HUF 30 billion a year. If we take this off, there's only 10 percent of the defense budget for development. Ideal ratio would be to have 40 percent personal, 30 percent material and 30 percent development expenditure, but this ratio is so distorted that nearly 50 percent personal, 40 percent material, and, as I just mentioned, we only spend 10 percent development, so it's impossible to build a force of strength. This road is moving towards decommissioning our army, as it has been for the past 27 years. There should also be serious spending on military development instead of government propaganda, for example. We have a number of amendments to this. The money for helicopter procurement is not included in next year's budget. The government has been hovering this for a long time, and our question is, when will the tender be issued and where will it be paid if it is not included in the budget. Let's not just talk about transport choppers, but also about the fact that we don't have a combat helicopter by removing the Mi-24s, so one of the major forms of fire support is virtually gone. What are the government plans for this? This is also an important issue because we talked about it in 2011, i.e. the rotating wing acquisition, and last year or the year before, we were announced that the government supported it and we had the money. The question is where. About HUF 130 billion was said by the Minister of Defence, which accounts for one third of the defence budget. We have serious question marks here. What has been said many times, Jobbik opposes any military action on foreign interests. During our history, we have also experienced what it is like to have foreign troops stationed in the territory of our country. Therefore, we cannot allow the principle of not being Hungarian soldiers abroad from foreign interests. It is a general problem that the use of our military forces in areas threatened by terrorists abroad, in the role of peacekeepers, advisors or military personnel, is a threat to the security of our country and to the lives of the soldiers serving there. Although the nature of engagement does not matter, of course we do not reject all foreign engagements, in the spirit of solidarity it is possible to take on as observers and advisors, it is also advisable to send aid supplies, but armed participation should not be taken into account in the future. I am talking mainly about the engagement in Iraq, the action against the Islamic State, which has recently been extended by the government, was voted in favour of the Democratic Coalition in the past, and we also demand that the missions that are dangerous to Hungary and do not represent Hungarian interests should be suspended, eliminated and the funds saved here should be transferred to military development. We need to talk about the Kratochvil Károly Honvéd High School and College in Debrecen as a positive example. This is the only military high school in the country with multiple over-subscriptions, and therefore deserves special support. The state is obliged to sacrifice to improve the building and equipment of the school. At the same time, the number of training staff could be increased and could be resolved within the Ministry of Defence. We also have an amendment in this regard. One of my amendments is aimed at the development of our military industry, but we could also talk about the resurrection of the military industry, as, thanks to the damaging work of the governments of the last 27 years, this has been incinerated in parallel with our army. This issue should be dealt with at state level, as it would not only be possible for our country to break into the international market in an important area, but it could also be a major job-creating function for our defence industry. The military industry is not only about the production of weapons and ammunition, but also about military technology, fighting vehicles, parts of weapons, uniforms and training clothing. If we were to equip our army with quality products produced at home, and we could also produce them for export, then this sector could contribute to the strengthening of the Hungarian economy. One of our most important amendments on this issue, on the subject of defence, is the creation of a separate border guard. Of the 28 EU Member States, Hungary is the only one with no border guards, although our geographical location and the international situation would strongly justify the establishment of this organisation. The argument is wrong that the police or the military can carry out this task in their own right. I'm confused about the relocation of various police units on the southern border, and police officers from other counties don't have the local and personal knowledge they need to be effective. [[9.00]] Therefore, in the case of an independent border guard, those serving there would live there, live in the area, have excellent knowledge of places and persons, whether they could be more effective in smuggling people or in other crimes. We believe that there should be around 8,000 border guards on the Schengen border sections. In the first round, our amendment will count on a group of 4-5 thousand, with the support of which it would be possible to protect our borders in the long term. There have also been recent legislative changes in relation to the VRS, which will make this service more attractive to the Ministry. These were necessary, we supported, but we also received information that volunteer reserveers would decommission us in a series, and it is not clear which age group would apply for this service, which age group would carry out this service; it is likely that the 45 - year - olds would be the majority. These rates should also be changed, and we would recommend once again the introduction of the possibility of voluntary basic military training, which we have already done before, and we look forward to the developments in this regard, when it is expected that 20 thousand volunteers will be active in the area protection units set up. Overall, despite the fact that the wallet's communication has had some welcome elements in the last two years, this is hardly felt in practical activity, and this is also reflected in the defence budget, which is disappointing to us. There is certainly more work to be done in the field of defence, and we have tabled it in the form of proposals to amend it to Parliament, and I would ask for the support of our fellow Members in this matter. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-19-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In modern times, it has become customary for us to provide an important document that we would like to make widely known with such adjectives. Minister Mihály Varga called this budget for the workers' budget, which is now being negotiated by the House for a reason and right. This sign means that the government intends to continue the pay-receiving programme that needs to replace a decade-long delay. It is not a matter of a few years of being behind, but of having a bad structure along which, with low salaries and low incomes, it is very difficult to develop the type of social cooperation that we really need. There has been a change in this area in recent years, and the budget promises more. Yet I say that this sign alone is far from indicating what this budget means. The budget for workers as much as the budget for families, but at least as much, and I would like to emphasise this even more, is the budget for our security and security. What must be clearly seen is that from the budget, the average citizen, as I am, primarily expects stability, the kind of stability and predictability for which the future can be planned with certainty for at least one year, but rather for a greater perspective. To do this, the budget must be sound, solid, something that cannot be called into question. Well, that's the budget, because it's a sequel to a series. I consider it to be one of the greatest merit that the kind, not simply the GDP ratio, because GDP often expresses so little, but the growth trend that the country could maintain, continue and intend to continue. In this regard, I would like to point out that the fortune tellers have questioned many times over the past period whether the figures that appear here in the budget are justified and the growth that we expect, what the government is expecting, is possible and will occur. Well, the first quarter's GDP development strongly defied the pessimists. That 4.1 percent increase is encouraging; it does not mean that it will continue this way necessarily, but it means that there are the foundations on which it can continue this growth, I think it is very important. I think it is at least as important in terms of stability that the government is determined to pursue the policy of debt reduction. We can clearly see that Hungary is otherwise technically and in many areas more developed countries unable to recover from the debt trap they have come into over a long, long period of years. And I do not want to refer to Greece, but to Italy or even France, which has a situation where new reforms need to be introduced and necessary, because, in the absence of them, these countries are not able to recover from the debt trap. Hungary has taken significant steps in this area, but what we need to see is that this process is not irreversible, this process can be continued if we are moving on the blow we have started; this is a very important issue. It is at least as important that the government has recognised - I believe it could have recognized it earlier - that it is very important to develop a family model with three children, but it must also be seen that there is not enough reception in society in this regard. It is the family with two children that is now increasingly generally accepted in Hungary, and if so, this must be strengthened. The family with two children will have three children, but if we do not strengthen families with two children, if we do not give them a strong grip, then the concept of a family with three children is very difficult to reach. That is why I see in this budget opportunities for families with two children that promise a promising future. I must also say here that the kind of action that aims to provide families with housing has proved successful in recent years, but not sufficient. Those who say that there are few apartments in the country are quite right about that. However, it is obvious that these apartments can only be created if we take steps to ensure that, in addition to building homes, the existing free capital that exists in this country, even in the small civil world, moves primarily in the direction that strengthens housing. I have to say that it must be recognised, recognised and not denied that steps in this direction will help to build a flat, so I supported, perhaps even somewhat, the kind of burdens that have borne, reduced, and possibly taken in that direction, let us now simply call small civic capital, which ultimately helps families access to housing. Well, I can't deny myself, and I have to tell you that there's a part of this budget that reminds me of a past. Here in this room we are few, and among those, I think there are not many, if there is anyone else who remembers that there was a time when I said once a week in the House that Hungarian agriculture needed 514 billion forints, and we shoved, shoved, shoved. This budget contains HUF 550 billion. How is that possible? I am not one of the Eurosceptics, I say that the European Union is indeed a community of values, but the European Union is also a kind of economic community that is also a community of interests. So when we count 550 billion in Hungarian agriculture, the European Union and its origin, we do not count on a gift, but rather a well-founded, contract-based payment that must be used well. And here's the dog that's buried: it's good to use. There is not a long time - which is why I asked you today - to use these available resources in the same scale and in such amounts, so the time to come is that they should be best spent on continuing and even highlighting structural changes. Finally, but not least: in this country, it must be noted that there are very advanced and well-developed areas, and there are areas that, unfortunately, are hard and very difficult to keep up with the pace that the best have already achieved and which can be exceeded. [[9.10]] These areas are well known. Yet, there is an area we hardly hear of, and this is my narrower Patriot, which is why I want to tell you about it. The middle part of the Tiszantúl, which has hardly been discovered, which is the focus of Turkish Miklós, Túrkeve, Mezőtúr, Gyomaendrőd and the surrounding small settlements, has somehow not been found - it has to be there. And in order to get this out of the way, we have a few debts that need to be met. This is route 4, this is route 44, these must be born, the infrastructure must be there, and this area must also be on a rising path. I support this budget in hopes of doing so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sallai R. Benedek from the Group of the LMP is now taking the floor. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-19-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, if I may, in a reactive communication, I would like to reflect on a few things that have been said. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Soltés, State Secretary, that there is a significant charm that the representative of the government who, I do not know, represents the interests of the billionaires here as a bitch of Lőrinc Mészáros and Sándor Csányi. There's a similar charm that Putin's puppet government is coming here to start accusing others. So obviously, it takes some confidence to do so. Thank you very much to my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, for bringing up the problems of my homeland and the backwardness of that region. I would like to remind my fellow Member that it is because the backwardness of the Great Plain is known compared to the Transdanubian regions and the central region, and already at the beginning of the century, Kunó Klebelsberg specifically tried to catch up with the Great Plain Committee, and I proposed to the Hungarian Parliament that the Alföld ad hoc committee dealt with these issues. Fidesz-KDNP did not support them. At the same time, I would like to ask my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács to support my budgetary amendments in these areas, precisely on issues relating to this topic and to road development, as I have presented development proposals for rural infrastructure, in the light of the everyday life of this region. They are among the modifiers, and I ask with great respect that you support all of this. And still in response: I would like to raise two points to Mr Banai, Secretary of State. One: he talked about the effects of the global economic crisis and how Hungary's exposure cut our opportunities. But what we need to see, Mr Secretary of State, is that both the MSZP government and you are delivering the country's economy to multinational big capital, and the reason we have such a high exposure to global crises is because you are destroying the local economy and local industry, destroying small and medium-sized enterprises that could be independent of these global economic processes. This faulty government policy, that you continue to see Hungary's competitiveness in low wages, that you cannot show anything in employment other than the fact that a multinational company is being relocated from the Far East or Western Europe or the United States, this is the wrong structure, this faulty economic system that creates all this exposure. And that is why your activities over the last seven years are as responsible as those of previous governments, which has created this serious foreign impact on our economy at all. I wanted to reflect on one more thing: your projected GDP growth, expected GDP growth. Let us add that this is not the government's activity, but the activities of the resources that you are attacking in Brussels, because you are about to spend the future of Hungary until the elections. So what is important is that they can campaign with the money that could serve the country's interests in the long term. So don't set that GDP growth, please, as a government success, because you're doing nothing but spending the future. I also have some thoughts for my fellow Member, Mr Hollik, because he began by saying that this budget is a budget for families. The problem is it's only for a few families. So Viktor Orbán will certainly be affected by the budget in his Swiss bank account, probably by some billionaires who have been consistently supported by you, and the problem is that there will be no positive impact on the masses. If you look at the last week and a half and you look at the media news, when it turns out that every third person in Hungary has an income below the 88,000 living minimum, then you have to think about how much of the idea that the government party's family budget can be based on. Obviously it belongs to families, but it is the family of Lőrinc Mészáros, the family of Sándor Csányi, Viktor Orbán and his family, and it is about the 500-600 families that are positively affected. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Sallai family!]] So that's the budget for families. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Hollik, for having applied the rhetorical turnaround of the developed EU countries twice. By doing so, he broadly acknowledged that Viktor Orbán and his government did not allow us to live in a developed country, so that he acknowledged the backwardness that the government's activities resulted. For one more thing, I wanted to point out to my fellow Member, Hollik, that he talked about fiscal indiscipline in Western Europe, about the irresponsibleness of left-wing governments in Western Europe - well, our young Hungarians are fleeing there! So my fellow Member Hollik is talking about how bad it is in the West, how undisciplined governments are, and how they spend money, while there are several times the GDP per capita of Hungary's citizens' disposable income. Then, if we talk about basic wages of 2-3 thousand euros in all sectors in Hungary, then perhaps they will have the right to criticise these Western European countries. And he highlighted one more thing that I wanted to respond to, that women should have birth, have birth, have birth. This is shocking to me because you consider the ladies of Hungary to be about such a box, to plug something in, to get something out, and then to be fine, but at the same time you do not create the basic conditions for childbirth. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Here are the concrete examples: I have tabled amendments every year to improve the conditions for childbirth, to establish a reference institution for the national institutional network of the House of Birth - you do not support it. At present, social security does not finance childbirth outside the institution, which is a very serious injustice, but you do not want to improve childbirth, so that women who may want to voluntarily decide how to give birth can help them. The possibility of additional training in midwifery and midwifery is constantly denied, and they do not want qualified people to deal with it, and because of previous traumas, of course, families stop at one child and two. The sources of preparation of pediatricians for neonatal care are rejected year after year in the amendment, even though it would create the opportunity to create better conditions. The preparation of the protective network for the treatment of birth outside the institution has been rejected for years. They don't make the delivery terms any easier. So when my fellow Member Hollik talks about how Hungarian women should only give birth and give birth, think about what your government has done to improve the conditions of childbirth in the last seven years, because unfortunately, this is what can be said to be a terrible failure. And one more thing, you mentioned this, uh, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the tax breaks. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm talking about. The tax benefits you're supposed to grant are just helping a very low-income class. For one third of the country, which, according to KSH data, lives below a minimum of 88,000, this tax reduction will never be enforceable. Just as it will not be enforceable to those who live on minimum wage. So the fact that you only support the wealthy and the rich is precisely this tax policy and this family policy is the main evidence. Stop and give concrete support to those in need of help, not to wealthy families who are not subject to family planning! Here, after these reactions, I would now move very quickly on my own topics in my limited time frame, because basically the budget, as many of you have said in the last few days, is an obvious campaign budget in which areas and areas that are not important or easily campaigned for you are simply released. Thus, the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian villages are one of the biggest losers of the budget again, as all the development opportunities that should be put into rural infrastructure, starting with the development of the lowest road network, are handled superficially, neglected and clearly impossible to reach villages. And the biggest crime of your centralising policy is the elimination of access to public administration systems, health, culture, education in rural and rural areas, so at least ensure that those living in these small settlements can somehow reach these services. And this is what they are ruining by the lack of meaningful community transport development, and this is what they are ruining by virtually creating an amazing additional cost for families and increasing overhead to maintain a road network that will cause Hungarian families to maintain continuously. [[9.20]] Obviously, the lack of opportunity to solve these problems of small settlements, the possibility of developing the infrastructure for small settlements, is why, in my view, this budget is inconvenient. Let me go further to defend two of my amendments. We must mention the further development of the Vásárhelyi plan, if not specifically, by name, but basically two important objectives - one the improvement of landscape management conditions and the other the development of Hungary's water management. During your administration, about 113 billion cubic meters of water flows into the country every day, releasing 117 billion. It's not water management. It's a waste of water they're doing. Nothing is being done to enable the Great Plain, adapted to changing climate conditions, to take action with agriculture that could improve both landscape management conditions and water resource management conditions. That's the guilty irresponsible thing to do. Under your governance, water management has collapsed and they maintain an ad hoc flood defense at the moment when there's a crisis and everything else is off the table. Obviously, this has a fundamental impact on the performance of the economy and agriculture by not dealing with it at such a level. I would also like to specifically demand, among my amendments, that the purchase of land be carried out with substantial items. You have taken hundreds of billions of dollars from the sale of defrauded state land, and the Constitutional Court has made a specific decision that you cannot use it with free hands and use it without further delay for what I would like to do. I would remind you that in your government decision, it was necessary to use it to improve the country. In particular, the Constitutional Court stated that this cannot be achieved, only by the National Earth Fund Act 15. §2 and Art. In accordance with Article 5 of the Act, for the purposes of property policy which are defined in the legislation. Nowhere in the budget is the constitutional obligation of this use of resources, which the Constitutional Court has said to you. It would be necessary to spend between 200 and 300 billion to buy state land and provide it to the extent that it is in the NFA Act. I would like to draw your attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2015. The issue of food safety is also a major problem, which has been mentioned more recently. Although for some time Fidesz-KDNP tried to beat the foam on dual food quality, nothing has happened to date. A single legislative amendment proposal, a single specific government measure, has not been taken. At the moment, Hungarian consumers are exposed to food safety risks and receive a large number of foods where products placed on the market on the shelves of food shops do not meet the basic conditions, chemical-free, healthy food. In this connection, I specifically asked in a Parliamentary resolution proposal, and now in the amendment of the budget, I specifically ask that the strengthening of the chain of control and supervision in this area, the implementation of increased food safety, and the improvement of product quality be done, because in Hungary the reduction in the life expectancy of all Hungarian citizens - cardiovascular diseases and cancers - can also be attributed to your irresponsible governance. They do not take the steps that could be taken for the health of Hungarian people. I am running out of time, but let me touch on another very narrow professional area for the Secretary of State, if I may, and this is basically a question of financing nature conservation. I am very, very disappointed that you are ruining a relatively continuous and unbroken effort of Hungarian society to preserve the natural wealth of the Carpathian Basin with a few years of governance. Whether it was an MDF government, or whether it was the Fidesz government in 1998-2002 or a socialist government, it can be said that, in connection with the process of creating national parks in the 1970s, the ten national parks in Hungary had resources for their strategic conservation tasks. You're ruining national parks. On the revenue and expenditure side, the budget system clearly shows that you are driving national parks to self-preservation, you need to generate your own revenues continuously, and you should finance nature protection and preserve the natural value of our country without the Hungarian state wishing to contribute to this. Everything that has happened in this case in recent years has so far depended on EU funds. Now this budget will definitely bleed out the funding of national parks and thus Hungary's nature reserve system. The fact that they do not deal with the natural values of our country at such a level and deal with it irresponsiblely proves that if we look around the budget, we see that the professional activities of non-governmental organisations carrying out public tasks are still not being used for funding. In order to carry out the duties of trade in protected and endangered species resulting from the Washington Convention, which are provided for in the International Convention, no funds will be allocated. There are still no resources to implement the Ramsari Convention on the Protection of Water Areas. There are still no resources for the tasks arising from the Convention on Biological Diversity, but there are also no resources for the implementation of the national adaptation or adaptation strategy, which is supported and partly adopted by them. No resources will be allocated to the implementation of the current tasks of the European Convention on Landscapes. The current domestic resources of the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Carpathians are also lacking funds in the budget. You think that national parks and nature conservation professional organisations will look for EU funds and do what they can. This is a typical national desecration government measure, when basically the conservation of the natural resources of the Carpathian Basin, its natural wealth, is so trampled on. If someone, a government, feels a little national, then the heritage of the nation should be protected at least, and this budget does not include any measures. Accordingly, I think that our group will not support this budget, because it is from a family policy point of view, because from a rural point of view, because it is environmentally unsuitable to support the country's future. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-19-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State János Fónagy asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-19-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that, in a budgetary debate, the government is presenting and supporting its own proposal, and the opposition is dissuading it, they are distributed roles, and we have no illusions about that. However, I ask that we do not do fundamental historical facts, fundamental, obvious processes, even within this framework, because we are not persuading or detracting from each other, but we are misleading the public opinion of Hungary. Honourable Congressman, Just a few moments from your speech. He mentioned the Várhelyi plan. The Vásárhelyi plan - please read the relevant literature - was initiated and developed by the first Fidesz government in 1998. After 2010, we were the ones who made the change that you thought was right, namely that the peak water reservoirs in the Tisza Valley should not only apply to the peak times of 5-10 days, but also to the 21st century. Set up facilities capable of withholding healthy drinking and irrigation water, considered to be the most important natural potential of the 20th century. Accordingly, it has been modified and we are constantly handing over the large facilities in Sajó Valley, which, by the way, cost billions. These are also included in the budgets of previous, present and future years. I'm just saying it in parentheses, because that's what's necessary, and we don't remember it anymore, because your predecessor, the Liberal SZDS, used to cross it. The declaration of the Tisza as an international stream between 1998 and 2002 was a major step forward. The final agreements were then blocked by the Southland War. By the way, all the high-water countries that are important to us have contributed to this. I hope we can continue this after a decade's break. Allow me to respond to what you said about community transport, not taking away time from others. Congressman! In the 2022 programme, HUF 4000 billion was earmarked for Community transport. Of which 2500 are roads and 1500 are fixed-track transport. This is shown in the current budget that we are planning to run public transport in 2018 totalling 342 billion instead of 286 billion, which is specifically designed to improve the quality of service and comfort. Congressman! You don't have to love us. You don't have to admit our achievements, but please go out by the railway, look at the 200 new engine trains, look at the new line in Pécsaba, look at the refurbished railway stations. If you say I'm asking nicely, that's not all, of course it's not all. A country develops railways and roads for 50 to 100 years. In four years, in eight years, you can take smaller or bigger steps. But I ask you not to debate the direction, because if there is a government that is very important for individual transport, which is very important for you too - I know and respect your environmental commitment - if there is a government that focuses on public transport rather than on personal transport that is seriously harmful to the environment, and, in relation to its potential and beyond that, it is the current government. I'm asking you to at least admit that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[9.30]]
u2017-05-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First from the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a few reactions. On the one hand, I would say to Mr Secretary of State Major that to mislead the public, you have allocated more than HUF 100 billion in this budget in support of public media and government information. The other thing is, Mr. Secretary of State Soltesz, when the government of a ten-million-year-old country has been whining for six months that a 90-year-old sick businessman from whom we are separated from an ocean is his main enemy, well, that's pathetic. For the record, serialization is a barely veiled jewishism, mixed up with scapegoat hunting, which brings back some rather nasty times. [[Miklós Soltész: I did not say that!]] As for the vote: your own party family, Mr. Secretary of State, would have liked to have thrown you out of it a long time ago, the Fidesz. He didn't do it for one reason, because that way they might be able to influence you and your great wise leader a little longer. However, it says a lot about this, and I think that two times as many people voted in favour of this resolution as they did with no. This resolution would not have been able to pass if half of your party family did not press the, but voted differently. [[Zsolt Nitrai: That's not true!]] It's your own party family, their own party family. You did not vote in favour of your own proposal, but in favour of the motion on the left, Mr Secretary of State. If there's something you need to think about, I think that's it. I note that the entire European Commission operates with right-wing leadership and a right-wing majority. But more sad for you, I think that not only Europe has had enough of themselves, but also of Hungarian society. The latest survey has just come out that the intellectuals and the graduates, those who think the most of you, have resigned from you, it seems; besides the great names, Stumpf István, Mellar Tamás, Király Miklós, Horányi Özség is society itself. The propaganda machine, the stolen billions and their manipulated election system -- they keep you on a ventilator. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-19-22	The next speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-23	Thank you very much. I'd only react in two minutes. First of all, I wanted you to be Secretary of State Soltés, but I just forgot. Mr. Secretary, if you don't mind me saying that you're lying when you point your finger at the LMP and say that we supported you. Please take a look at the results of the vote. MEP Tamás Meszerics did not support the proposal for a decision in the European Parliament on the application of Article 7, feel free to check - just to refer back to this. Thank you very much, Secretary General Major, for your answers, and thank you for having honored me with your reactions. I look forward to highlighting from the record the part where you acknowledge that public opinion is being deceived, plural first person. This was the first kind moment of his speech. I have indeed welcomed the changes to the BTT, but I still miss the use and implementation of it. This is what I called attention to, that the papers will not be done and that there will be no better way of life, but that they will remain in the drawer. You're the one who used the language that your predecessor, the liberals, As much as you have the Salassies' party, we're so much in favour of the predecessors, so if that's any way to compare them. It is very important to talk about Community transport of 342 billion, which is here in the budget. This amount is roughly limited to managing public transport in the capital area. In rural areas and in rural areas, which I have mostly talked about, where there are many elderly people who are left behind because of demographic conditions, this is not a solution. You mentioned the peaceful Csaba railway line. I'm asking you to take a seat on, say, the Deer and Terror train line, the Little New Station train line. There are the same locomotives that, I don't know, I went fishing for Kishör for the first time in 84. So right now, I don't feel like you have the right to brag about it. You said that if there is a government that cares about these issues, I'm afraid I have to say, no, there is no such government, so it hasn't been in the last 27 years. It'll keep you waiting, but I'm hoping you'll come in a year. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-05-19-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. That concludes the two-minute speeches. Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, from the Fidesz Group, is next for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-25	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. My basis is that the most important item on the agenda in Parliament is the budget, as it determines almost everything for the next year. I also have to say that in the life of the Hungarian state, in the operation of Hungary, it was a very important and forward-looking step that we brought forward the budget negotiations from the last days of the year, from the end of the year to the middle of the year, because this makes the lives of people and municipalities and municipalities much easier and more predictable, as they can see early what they can expect in the coming year. In my speech, I would like to talk about budgetary support for important social groups. The current budget - a draft budget, a presentation - will be a budget for people living in work, with a focus on tax cuts, wage increases and job creation. I think that regardless of party standing, we all consider public security, the public security of our country to be important. In recent years our country, Hungary, has become much safer, thanks to the police and police. We can say that since 2010, the police have become more organisationally stronger and more advanced than they were in 2010. We thank the police and police officers for protecting our borders and protecting our security. It is very important that, in addition to this moral recognition, the Government of Hungary also values them financially, and this is also part of the current draft budget, since the government introduced a career model for law enforcement workers. In three years, you can expect an average wage increase of 50 per cent. I think that this police career model is extremely important and forward-looking, as it already gives serious financial security to police workers, the police. We also expect this measure to result in more and more young people choosing police careers for their lives. Let's talk a little bit about health care, which is a very difficult area. I think that education and health are the two areas and a large system where a state, any state or any local government can give the right answers to questions arising from the sector. But in the case of health, we can also say that this year there is HUF 325 billion more for health than there was in the budget submitted by the last socialist government in this area. Caregivers are expected to receive a 65 percent wage increase. I think that this is also a very important step forward, because there are over 70,000 nurses doing their responsible and trying work every day, on weekends and on holidays. This 65 percent wage increase, which takes several years, is a very old debt and a long-awaited step forward from this sector. We all thank our parents and grandparents for being here. Yeah, it's mostly about pensioners. There are over two million of them. We can also say that pensions increased on average by 23 percent between 2010 and 2016 and their purchasing power improved by more than 10 percent. State Secretary Soltés also said that there is an opportunity for pensioners to receive or receive a pension premium this year, November. I would also draw attention to the fact that there was no such thing under socialist governments, and rather they took away their 13th month pension. We also think and regard solidarity as extremely important. I think that our disabled fellow citizens, who have more than 600 000 people in Hungary, can expect significant financial assistance and support from this budget, as we can say that in recent years, support for disability organisations has been constantly increasing. [[9.40]] More than 80,000 of our countrymen are already working in the country, and the next year, according to the draft budget, the car plus programme will continue to facilitate transport for people with wheelchairs who are disabled. If we look at the area of families and look at it in this draft budget, we can also say that since 2010, the amount spent on families has doubled, their support. It wants to spend 176 percent more on this budget than the 2010 budget did. State Secretary Soltés talked about free and reduced meals in schools, which is also a unique thing, at least in relation to past periods. At the end of my speech, allow me to highlight one more area, and this is the area and issue of animal protection. This year's budget, so the 2017 budget, was the first to include animal protection as an independent, well-known budget line, which has never been the case before. Obviously, this is symbolic of the fact that a specific amount is part of Hungary's budget for animal protection. This is the case in this draft, and even the amount allocated to animal protection is increasing. Overall, this is a forward-looking budget for those who work, who work; this budget is about tax cuts, wage increases and job creation. I therefore ask everyone to consider their support and vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Gergely Bárándy is coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-19-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of polemia about who's here and who's not in this room. I think, of course, that it is possible to ask the opposition parties how many there are and how many people are not in this room, but I think that it is essentially the government's duty to be present in a budgetary debate. Members come from the opposition side at such a pace, I think, as they see fit and think, because they ask questions and express opinions. It would be the government's duty to be here, by the way, to respond to these suggestions, or at least to hear professional suggestions and arguments with open ears. I am very pleased that there are three State Secretarys representing you here, but for example, there is no one here from the judicial wallet, and I would like to talk about judicial budget support and related issues, which I think I would be right to expect, if there is such a separate institution, that Parliamentary Secretary of State, at least in the debate on the budget, which, according to my fellow Member Nyitrai, is the most important law here in Parliament, then let the government be here and represent this most important law that he has submitted. I would like to start with the court chapter: I think that there is no debate, at least not in the profession - what the government budgeters say is in what they are and what they are not in, I do not know that, but there is no debate within the profession - that the biggest problem today is that there has been no wage increase in this sector for 15 years, my fellow Members. It was the last time in 2002-2003, and now they want to give this sector three times a 5% wage increase after 15 years, after 15 years! I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State, that if what my fellow Member Nyitrai was talking about is true and the wages of the nurses rise by 65 percent - which is right, they deserve it, it is perfectly fine if that is true - but let me ask you why after 15 years, the salaries of judicial staff or judges are to be set at three to five percent, the rate of increase already. I know the Prime Minister personally hates it, he hates the judiciary, I understand that, because it's the only branch of power that hasn't fallen into the government yet, and I hope it won't, but I still believe that when planning a budget, it can't be an argument. We know that there is an argument for the Prime Minister's hobby, stadiums and other, but perhaps negative discrimination, if positive, at least negative discrimination should not appear. This is all the more strange, Mr. Secretary of State, to you - because I believe that László Trócsányi has not participated in a parliamentary debate for over a year, but his secretary is not here - that if you can give 31 billion HUF in the court budget this year, then why does that mean that only 8.5 billion will be raised after 15 years? I know that what the judge and his family eat or may have spent on vacation or on the part of the rent he took as a house loan can't be undone by the fact that Viktor Orbán and his government did this as a new building, I understand - but it does matter, doesn't it? And even though there will be nice buildings, there will be a well-functioning IT system - I note, no, but it would be in vain - if the skilled and talented labour force left and migrated. And educated and talented young people do not necessarily choose this sector. Even the judge just-just because there must be a sense of dedication, and anyone who has a calling will do so, if necessary. But the law enforcement staff, who have to take you home under a hundred thousand forints a month, leave. Now is the moment, the last moment you can keep them there. Believe me, Mr. Secretary, what they represent is not like a handiworker who can be replaced in a moment. These people are skilled, experienced and good workers, and if they are released by the government, they will suffer serious damage to justice. That's why I can't understand the fact that if you're going to the court chapter, you're going to get 21 billion forints plus Then why can't this be done at a different rate, and why can't it be done if it's not done to anyone else, to the godmother of one of the Prime Minister's children, who is the president of the OBH special, to meet his request, and to give a slightly higher wage increase to judges and judicial staff. The other, Mr. Secretary of State, is the Ministry of Justice. What I don't understand is what they're trying to do by getting practically everything out of the Justice Department. Of course, the only effect of this is that the IM will receive less than half of the previous budget; it is a natural consequence, since its number is roughly halved. But I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice if he were here, or his secretary of state, how can you tell me what the goal is: to keep László Trócsányi and his secretary to the end? I note that what the Ministry of Justice is doing today, let's say, can be a subject of strong criticism, especially as to what laws are being made in Hungary, what laws are of style, and to what standards these laws are being submitted from the Ministry of Justice. But what I can say, however, is that the fact that the powers are being outsourced from under the judicial portfolio, I think, is a good indicator of your constitutional approach and attitude; as you take a stand with the Ministry of Justice, that is exactly how you feel about the rule of law and democracy. There's no need for someone inside the government to take care of this, needlessly completely, I understand that. On the other hand, the standard of law school, Mr. Secretary, do you know what could raise it? If the 500 million forints to be transferred to the minister's authority to devote it to raising the level of legal education, it would be distributed nicely among the legal faculties in Hungary. Believe me, that 500 million forint would be very necessary, and I could really use it in law school. László Trócsányi's hobby shouldn't be supported, but it only costs 500 million, much less than the Prime Minister's hobbies, but I think it should be in law schools. Out of 500 million forints, a small miracle could be done in Hungary in legal education, if it were not distributed to the Minister's liking, but appeared directly at legal universities. What we have on this subject is, of course, propaganda over 100 billion forints, which I have already mentioned. And finally, just because Congressman Nitrai noted this, on the subject of animal protection: what the government has done so far in the field of animal protection and the way it treats animal defenders, I think that this issue should not even be mentioned here in Parliament by any pro-government MEP. [[9.50]] The amount you devote to this is symbolic, symbolically offensive. You know, Secretary of State, I have spoken to animal defenders, not one, and it is about the opinion that what you want to translate into animal protection now symbolically - to quote Mr Nitrai - is about as much money as a larger animal protection foundation can run for a quarter. It's a quarter-year animal rights foundation. - that's how important animal protection is to you. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-19-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. To be continued, there will be a government speech. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-19-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will try to be brief and briefly respond to the suggestions made by Mr Gergely Bárándy. Allow me, Congressman, to begin by saying that you said that we should pay attention to professional arguments with open ears. Congressman, allow me to say that we are trying to focus on professional arguments with open ears, but in recent days there have been allegations made that we have been able to refute precisely with the numbers of the draft budget law and with historical data. There were a lot of basics that just didn't hold up professionally. Allow me, Congressman, to use this as a reference to your claim that there has been some increase in the amount of the judicial salary since 2015. Let me draw attention to the fact that in 2012 there were 16 100 judges and prosecutors' salary increases, about 10 percent, and then this level was brought to this level, and it was added in 2013, so there was already a measure in 2012-13. This was followed by a three times five percent increase in 2016-17-18, mentioned by you. In addition, let us not forget that the job bonus for judicial authors, secretaries, prosecutors and sub-consultants was increased in 2015 [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Plus work!]] The average monthly increase was 39 200 HUF/month. In addition, if we are talking about how the wage increase for public sector employees is achieved, I can say the general thing that, in line with the performance of the Hungarian economy, wage increase was made in the public sector in proportion to the expansion of the economy. And if we look at wage increases in a broader sense, more than 550 thousand of the people employed at around 700 thousand main budgetary bodies have already received wage increases and will be implemented in next year's draft budget law. If we can maintain this pace of development, we can rightly expect further wage increases to take place in the various areas of the public sector in the coming years. As regards the court's budget, the government submitted to Parliament a proposal that the courts had handed over. It's a separate law. So this proposal, Mr President, is the proposal submitted by the court. Indeed, there is also a source of wage increases, there is a real source of other types of expenditure, there is also a source of expenditure under the new rules of administrative litigation, and there is indeed a source of development. You can argue about the proportions, but it is also worth looking at how many buildings have been renovated in recent years, which ensure the infrastructure background of the task. On the other hand, I can hear Mr. Congressman's suggestion. It's a comprehensive, not court-specific thing, but a demographic issue. The question is whether we can solve demographic problems. What I see is that there's been a positive shift in the fertility rate. This is, of course, a long-term investment, for which the proposed budget law for 2018 contains new elements, not only in terms of summation but also in changes in regulation, in order to increase the benefits of two children. That's the key question. I do not think that there is a need to look at the number of individual areas, but to look at the fact that the whole country is now, thank God, in employment conditions that there is a significant demand for labour in many areas, and this demand for labour can, in the longer term, essentially be addressed by changing demographic trends. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is now time for a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the civilian government has been working to reduce public debt to a level that can be tolerated and meeting the Maastricht criteria. When it comes to sovereign debt, we often talk about a lot of things, but sometimes we forget the most important thing - that is, that today's loan will have to be repaid to the future generation. This means that we must repay the loan taken out in the past now. Let me explain only two comparative figures: back in 2002, when the first Orbán government was transferred to the Medgyessy government, the debt per capita was HUF 1 million, and by 2010 it had already increased to HUF 2 million. Government debt-to-GDP increased from 55.9 per cent to 85.9 per cent in the first quarter of 2010. It is also worth looking at how the foreign exchange exposure of public debt developed in the period starting in 2006. While in the first year of the Gyurcsány government, on 31 March this amount amounted to just HUF 2802 billion, in March 2010 we are talking about more than HUF 9900 billion. The weak performance of socialist governments is only added to the fact that they managed to achieve this in a global economic climate. It is difficult to find words that those who have pawned the future take the liberty of giving advice and criticize. On the other hand, it is a success in any way that the current Cabinet, with this legacy, has managed to reduce its debt behind its back, we have not reached the fate of the Greeks, and we did not need to take public austerity measures that we could get used to during socialist governments. Despite the failed economic policy of the left, we were able to repay the IMF loan as a result of the 2010 government change and seven years of hard work, with which we closed a period in Hungarian economic history. All credit rating agencies, the European Commission, the IMF and the IMF now recognise the development of our country's fiscal deficit and sovereign debt indicators, the results achieved by the reform of the tax administration, the further whitening of the economy and the significant improvement in the rate of tax collection, as well as the reduction of wage contributions. The latest development is that the share of foreign currency within the sovereign debt has fallen below 30%. In 2011, this ratio was still 52 percent. According to the GKK's financing plan, foreign exchange bond issuance of EUR 1.2 billion is expected in 2017 compared to a maturity of EUR 2.4 billion, which will further reduce the foreign exchange ratio. This result is also good in regional comparison, with the highest foreign exchange debt rate in Bulgaria and Croatia being close to 80%, in Romania it is 54 percent, in Poland it is 35 percent, and in Hungary it is in the middle. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, this historical overview of public debt shows the economic policy that the government has consistently represented for seven years now: strict fiscal policy without restrictions, declining public debt, increasing employment. I believe that the country is moving in the right direction, and that the country's performance is recognised abroad. I would add that capital markets have long appreciated Hungary's performance, since they buy Hungarian sovereign debt with extraordinary interest. As the 2018 budget has the guarantees that will help carry on these positive processes, I would ask my fellow Members to support the motion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the major achievements of the system of national cooperation could be that the government will present its budget proposal to the House early in the first half of the year preceding the year, which we have been experiencing for the third year now, but unfortunately, the benefits cannot be sufficiently exploited. In spite of the government's presentation of the budget proposal well before the date laid down by law, this House will not spend any more time discussing the proposal. [[10.00]] They do not deal substantially with opposition amendment proposals, and the majority of governments accept it as a simple voting machine. But it's not just the opposition. In spite of the fact that there is still time and opportunity to discuss the budget proposal more widely, or to consult the relevant sectoral and social actors publicly, the government does not take these opinions into account. In fact, despite the fact that this House has already adopted the budget law in advance, instead of preparing for compliance with it for the year, primarily by government bodies, regular and large-scale amendments will be initiated in the reference year, which will be voted without criticism by the majority of governments. Hence, we must establish that the old wisdom that quick work is rarely good is true. Based on previous years' practice, planned expenditures are subversived every year, often on several occasions. For this reason, I would like to draw attention to the main trends in the expenditure currently planned. It is clear that the state intends to spend more on itself than in previous years. Therefore, despite the results of the bureaucracy reduction so much, the state will, on the basis of the draft before us, still cost more in 2018 than in 2017 and significantly more than in 2016 or before. Mr Secretary, I think you have time, and you will disprove me if you think so, but unfortunately these numbers are stubborn facts, in 2016, they spent much less on themselves than they wanted in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, Would it not be one of the most important indicators of a genuine reduction in bureaucracy that the maintenance of the state apparatus costs less than before? How can bureaucracy be reduced by spending more on the apparatus? The chapter of Minister Rogán, where the planned increase in appropriations is more than 25%, stands out among the expenditure planned by the State to be spent on its own. So the government wants to spend more than a quarter more on government propaganda than in this year. This example, too, shows the current government's image of government governance and administration: if we say much about steering well, then perhaps someone will believe it, regardless of how they feel about their own skin. This propaganda, full of slides and lies, is also strongly present in the Parliament. The leaders of this propaganda - almost in a family business - are István Hollik and his brother-in-law, Csaba Dömötör, who are the leaders of these slippers. In previous years, we have seen governments that have reached out to the means of pretend government, which has worked for a long time and then suffered a nasty failure. Unfortunately, this kind of communication trick comes at a great cost, and not primarily the amount that is spent on it, but the destruction that is caused by the fact that they communicate rather than government and operation. The demise of institutions, in particular in education, health and territorial administrative services, or even in the distribution system of EU funds, is tangible. Our basic systems, which determine the quality of life of Hungarian people, operate far below the expected standards. However, the changes in revenue are much more talkative than expenditure. The changes are striking compared to the planned revenues for 2017. The government plans a significant increase in tax revenue on the following revenue lines: mining fee +24 per cent, rehabilitation contribution +33 per cent. They come with the essentials: retail tax +50 per cent, small company tax +101 per cent, advertising tax +45 per cent, VAT income +24 per cent, public taxes +28 per cent, fines +37 per cent, landfill tax +67.5 per cent, toll +18 per cent. In contrast, the government expects a significant reduction in tax revenue on the following lines. Let's look at where tax revenue is reduced: corporate tax -50 percent, bank tax -25 percent, toy tax -16 percent, central government revenue -47 percent. István Hollik, you said here in your speech, I mentioned him earlier, that this budget contains the socio-political objectives that the government considers important, he said. These figures show what policy objectives the government considers to be important in the first place. He would like to put small people, people living on wages and salaries, and Hungarian SMEs in tax press. One of the most significant revenues is VAT revenue, which is planned to be increased by nearly one fifth. VAT is the tax that affects all consumers. In addition, in Hungary, one of the highest VAT rates in comparison between the EU Member States is 27 percent. The high VAT rate results in increased exposure to VAT fraud and also significantly impairs our competitiveness vis-à-vis regional competitors. The high VAT rate has a negative impact on both corporate and residential investments. The hypocritical propaganda that the government is doing a large-scale bureaucracy reduction will be shrouded if we look at the planned increase in public tax revenues in the draft. We have passed several laws over the past few years that have abolished fees and charges for various public services. How, then, is it possible that the government is planning to increase public tax revenues to this extent? The government therefore supports Hungarian people and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises only at the level of words, in practice it pursues a more populous policy and openly expects them to finance government domination. The number of speakers is a nearly one-third increase in the revenue of fines. The government promises rigor and threatens to fine anyone who doesn't comply with the rules, especially because it is the government who regularly and systematically violates the rules on everyone else. Of course, he does not fine himself or his institutions. On the other hand, the government is planning a significant reduction in corporate tax, which is explained by the tax reduction of large companies. This is no doubt proof that the government is actually on the side of large companies, seeking their favor. It is also necessary to ensure a competitive tax and regulatory environment for large companies, and there is no debate about it, but it is unfair, in my view, to transfer tax revenues thus lost to the general public and to the final consumers. It is equally interesting to reduce the expected revenues of the toy tax already mentioned; in particular, the members of the government and their related familials have virtually occupied the gambling market in recent years. Now we can see the actual impact at national level, it provides the selected people with a large income, while it results in reduced tax revenues for the community, which the government intends to collect on personal income tax and VAT, i.e. on individual Hungarians. In a democratic civil society, all this would be unthinkable. It's just unsuitable! In conclusion, on the basis of the figures, the emphasis was clearly shifted from the development and construction of society to the development and construction of the state. Tax forints produced by Hungarian people therefore serve to increase a state whose maintenance costs will also have to be borne by taxpayers in the future. Hopefully, in the larger part of 2018, when public finances should be run on the basis of this draft, the current governing parties no longer govern and take the necessary financial decisions. If the Movement for Jobbik Hungary goes to government, it will review the disproportions outlined above and eliminate the injustices. After all, this budget is nothing more than a propaganda that you are constantly broadcasting and doing something completely different in this country. Allow me to offer you some of the amendments that I have tabled. One of them is that yesterday Béla Dankó said in a speech that spending 1 forint on sports will bring 4 forints. [[10.10]] In the Western and democratic world, you are right about that, but the only question is how much of that one forint actually gets to sport. One forint of the money spent on stadium construction will not bring four forints, and even one forint of the money spent on corruption will not bring four forints for sport. But if you really consider sport as a strategic sector - which is very right, because if this money was normally spent on sport, it would actually benefit - then I do not understand why this is all there is to promote sport. It was said how much money is spent on government communication. But to promote sport, which is supposed to be a nation strategy sector, what amount do you think you want to spend this year? 25 million forints. It's ridiculous. 25 million forints. We have tabled an amendment to increase this amount. Another important issue is that, in the case of various grants, you talk only about the academic system of national sports associations. And we think we should talk about the academic system of national Olympic sports associations. Moreover, you are treating the Hungarian Football Federation separately, and you are taking it out of this circle in an incomprehensible way, even though the Hungarian Football Association is also considered an Olympic sports association, so it is eligible for subsidies. However, you are not entitled to treat this sports association separately and to treat it completely differently than any other Olympic sports association. We would therefore like to eliminate this positive discrimination. I have tabled a number of amendments to Annex XVII. in relation to the district. There is a need for a great deal of development in the area of improving community spaces, which is why I am asking you to support the people who live there. There are quite a few playgrounds here, many of which are related to sports or leisure sports, which deserve renovation. For example, the Ede street playground, the renovation of the playground and the football field at the Helikopter residential park, such as the Rákoscsaba-Újtelep, the Playground of the Triadal-Demjén and the reconstruction of the Free May Square playground in Rákoshegy, as well as the renovation of the Rákosliget sports field and runway. This is all for purposes that I think are absolutely eligible. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the district has a fidesz mayor. So I ask you to support these amendments so that we can improve the living conditions of those living there. Last, allow me to draw your attention to two very important issues on which we have tabled an amendment. One of the requests is that we would like to get money from you to build a gym in Pilissántó. This is important because the Pilisi basin is one of Hungary's most beautiful and special natural values. The area is largely a world heritage area, biosphere reserve and its transition zone, a wide range of protected landscapes and nature conservation areas. A protected water catchment area with sources, the air duct and one of the main recreational zones of Budapest. The Pilis and the Pilis Basin are sacred places of the Hungarians and the Church, where three international pilgrims intersect each other. Hungarians, German, Slovak and Serbian minorities have been living together in harmony for centuries. The human and natural harmony of this area is to be disrupted by the construction of the 10 thousand square meters transformer station designed for Pilisszántó. The transformer station would be built along an old 120-kilot power line built in the Kádár system. The residents had long hoped that they would not have a power line over their heads, but that they would once put this wire underground, but now it seems that instead of this 120 kilos, they would be given a 400 kilos air line above their heads. Otherwise, this would result in the whole Pilis Mountains and basin being cut through Göd through Pomáz to Bicska, cutting trees and killing a 70-80-metre forest band, and seriously endangering the habitats of natural and rare animals and plants. The municipality of Pilisszántó wishes to sell this area to the ELME because he really needs a gymnasium. At present, physical education classes should be given to children living in the settlement in an outrageous situation, which is why it is appropriate to have a gymnasium, but with this gym, we could also replace the fact that there should be no such destruction in the Pilis. I think it is in all our interests to protect our natural resources and give them to our offspring. I'm asking you to support it, because it's not enough to build a gym to save Pilis. The last thing we make every year is an amendment, but you never support it, and I just don't understand why you don't. In Hungary, population loss is a very big problem. In previous decades, we have seen that, thanks to family-destructive policies, there has been a great deal of population loss, and this is continuous. Unfortunately, there are families who want to have children no matter how much they can't have them. They had one option: assisted reproduction, the so-called IVF program, and the flask baby program. This is a very costly intervention, although the state supports it, the part of these interventions is usually about 300 thousand forints per such intervention. A lot of families can't afford this, so they lose the opportunity to have children. But these families want children. I think that these families and people deserve to be helped by the state in some form. That is why we would like to spend 3 billion HUF on this and create a fund where you can apply for this part in a tendering system. In this way, we would not exclude anyone from the possibility of having a child once and raising children once. I ask you to support this noble goal. Although they have not supported it in the last two years, I hope they will, and we will give many families the opportunity to have children. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Kristóf Szatmáry. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity to say a few words about the impact of this recent package of laws and tax laws on Hungarian society, including small and medium-sized enterprises. Let me start by saying that, in my opinion, this is a good budget. It's good because it basically gives everyone an extra chance, but it also prefers, I think, good things. Preferences the work, prefers those who want to work, and also those who believe in the family and raise children or want to raise children. But what I would like to talk about here briefly is that it also basically favours businesses. We are well aware that from the point of view of domestic businesses, as it would have been in previous years, especially before 2010, it is very important for the current budget, especially for stability. We can say that, compared to 2010, it was fortunately possible for businesses to be able to plan, not for businesses a negative period of gastric curve is the coming of next year's tax laws, but not to worry about how the current government intends to resolve its negative economic policy with their revenues. Greece is a very good example of this. We talk about it a lot, but sometimes the actual policy makes it so that Hungary is indeed comparable to the current situation in Greece. Anyone who listened to the news this morning knows that the Greek Parliament is also dealing with next year's tax laws. There are protests, Molotov cocktails and very serious restrictions on the agenda, and I think the Greek Parliament has accepted them. There is a very different budget in Hungary, and this is largely, if not fundamentally, due to the fact that Hungary has been conducting an individual, separate economic policy since 2010, resulting in the fact that today, unlike Greece, we are able to talk about how much more people get, and not how much less people get after 18. [[10.20]] Let me just mention, at some point, the events that started from 2017 and continued in 18, which are favourable to the economy and businesses, which are included in the budget. Perhaps here it is outstanding that Hungary will be one of the lowest and the lowest corporate tax rates in Europe by 9 percent from 2017, and it will continue from 18 onwards. Perhaps an important change is the elimination of taxes on income from real estate rentals and of health contributions, and the whitening of a sector. There have been attempts to do this before, and I think that we can now get to a situation that is also relevant to the development of real estate and construction. By transforming the small business tax - kiva - the tax system has created an even more favourable tax environment for small and medium-sized enterprises that can grow from 2017. Here it is important that the kiva was established in 2017 with a 16-percent key, dropped from 16 percent and further decreased to 13 percent in 18 percent. The government intends to help increase employment by 2 percentage points, including by reducing the key to the health contribution from 18 to 18. And what does the government have time for? This means only good economic conditions, that it can also deal with a sector - which we know is decisive, such as the tax situation of small breweries - and we hope that it can develop a new sector, which is otherwise underestimated in Hungary today, such as small-scale brewing. Analyzing next year's budget, there is no doubt that the government is committed to maintaining economic growth, reducing public debt and preserving the stability of public finances. The results of the economic policy measures in recent years may now be indisputable, economic growth significantly exceeds the EU average, public debt declines year after year and the general government deficit is still low. This is good news for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, as it creates a favourable and predictable economic environment for domestic businesses, which is why I propose that we support the budget proposal presented by everyone, and by myself and by the faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-19-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman. The time frame is 6 minutes 37 seconds.
u2017-05-19-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2018 budget is a clear evidence of the government's disregard for environmental protection. In order for the Government to fulfil the obligations of the Fundamental Law on environmental protection, three things would certainly be necessary. Firstly, the integration of environmental aspects into sectoral economic activities, including horizontal issues such as tax and aid policies, which have an impact on natural resources and the environment. In this respect, the government's performance is not only insufficient but also directly harmful. Not only is its tax policy flawed in overtaxing the work, but also its support and development policy, its energy and agricultural policy, has a particularly negative impact on the environment in general, thereby taking advantage of the chances of the present and future generations. Its insensitive attitude towards promoting sustainable transport and the development of public transport is almost unprecedented in terms of the more developed half of the world. Secondly, the effective operation of environmental, legal and economic regulatory instruments for sustainability and the establishment of a system of enforcement institutions would be necessary. In this respect, there is clearly a softening of environmental law and a disregard for it, assisted by a degraded institutional system. Thirdly, a management of natural resources, the protection and restoration of ecosystem services, such as achieving a good ecological state of water resources, making wise use of water resources, soil renewal agriculture and reducing the adverse effects of climate change, would be essential to address the challenges of the age. In this case, too, a red card should be distributed, since the actions and delays of the government are only harmful. This is also reflected in the budget submitted, which hardly uses resources such as environmental remediation, water retention, nature conservation, energy efficiency. There is little evidence of sources to improve air purity, to reduce noise and vibration, and to reduce allergy pollen load. One way or another, the government is endangering the health of millions of Hungarians and is damaging their quality of life. Think about it: only the government's suspension of the implementation of the asbestos removal programme and the national environmental remediation programme could cause the direct harm to the health of hundreds of thousands of our compatriots. And in support of all the civil green organizations taking over the state, almost as much money was spent - 81 million forints - as they received 70 million forints from the National Council of Pálinka. But the CSOs have been worse: their annual and national support is less than HUF 4 million. Without EU funds, not only development but even conditions for operation in the environment would be completely impossible. The government is a bad owner of natural resources, squandering them, letting them crumble or overuse them, whether they are agricultural land, water resources, forests or grasslands. According to the latest EU environmental country report, Hungary is still below the EU average in terms of resource productivity. Hungarian policies do not yet include a comprehensive shift towards a circular economic concept. The framework strategy for national sustainable development includes the presentation of natural resources, lists the current unsustainable processes and describes which are the appropriate options, but government measures do not even point in this direction. There is a serious lag in waste management, compliance with air quality limits, in particular as regards dust particles, and additional measures should also be taken to protect Natura 2000 sites. The report could provide a long list of problems and what needs to be done. In any case, by reading the report and the government budget draft, the answer is still far from indebted to the government. Therefore, the LMP does not support the vote on the budget as it stands, but a radically renewable fiscal tax and support policy is needed in order to ensure the future development of the country. We will also present our amendments to the environment. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-19-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre is now speaking. He will give the beginning of his speech in his mother tongue, and then he will translate it himself. Here you go, Mr. Speaker. You have the floor.
u2017-05-19-39	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzvorschläges Nr. T/15381. uber den ungarischen Haushalt, gelegentlich der treffenden Teile der nationalitäten Bedürfnisse - erkläre. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the central budget for 2018, T/15381. Bill No.2 on the parts of the legislation concerning ethnic needs. [[10.30]] In my opening comment yesterday, given that the current parliamentary term is closed from a budgetary point of view by the 2018 central budget bill, I started with a look back at the situation of the nationalities living in Hungary at the beginning of the cycle, in what and how we have been able to move forward in the last three years, where we are today, what tasks are ahead of us, because without having a sufficient knowledge of these, it is not possible to assess the past years or the national needs relating to the central budget for 2018, to deal with them in their place and to make appropriate government and parliamentary decisions. In the last part of my first speech, I had prepared and presented in broad terms the minority kindergarten teacher and minority educator programme, which is the backbone of the national change needs related to the 2018 Central Budget Act with the necessary HUF 2 billion HUF 416 million. In yesterday's speech, I briefed the House in detail on the results of the surveys carried out in the kindergartens, its detailed evaluation and the improvement of the situation of the minority kindergarten teacher in a tragic situation, the development of the national kindergarten teacher training, the specific measures that are necessary for the holding and holding on the career of national kindergarten teachers and ethnic educators, as planned in the complex programme. At the same time, I must follow you, because I know today that I informed you of the wrong numbers in yesterday's speech. In my speech yesterday morning, I said that more than 40 percent of the required number of national kindergarten educators, 474 of the German ethnic kindergarten educators, for all nationalities, are missing some 550 national kindergarten educators. Yesterday, right after my speech, regardless of the fact, I got a call from the head of a minority kindergarten, and he said in despair: " Yesterday, four of my national children's educators stood up at the same time and went to work in Austria. Dear Imre. Which way do I go? I can't hire people from anywhere. I just don't have a national daycare teacher. And even if I could seduce national kindergarten educators from somewhere else, that would be where ethnic education would end. What do I do? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I didn't know what to suggest to him. I was only able to say that I have just finished my 20-minute speech in Parliament on the minority kindergarten teacher and minority educator programme, and I trust that the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government will understand our situation. He understands the tragicity of the education of national children's kindergarten educators and will support the educational programme of national kindergarten educators and ethnic educators. In any case, for the sake of factuality, I would like to tell you that the 474 German national children's educators and 550 national children's educators who are concerned with all nationalities have now grown to 554 in the case of German national children's educators for 478 and all nationalities, at least which I am aware. On this basis, I can ask the Hungarian Government and Parliament repeatedly to support the implementation of our complete and developed programme for the resolution of the educational and ethnic education situation. The substantial part of my speech today, and the rest of it, is a breakdown and justification of the additional ethnic needs of HUF 1.1 billion under the National Kindergarten Teacher and Nationality Teacher Program, which consists of the following five items. First of all, we recommend raising the 1 billion HUF 90 million ethnic, so-called NEMZ tender framework by HUF 360 million, by 33 percent. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: On this basis, I can tell you that, compared to 2016, the number of applications submitted in 2017 increased by 30 percent and the amount requested by 67 percent, which led to a significant decrease in the amount of aid that could be granted for one application. I would also like to inform you here that we have been fighting for two years now so that the invitations to tender will take place in September, instead of the Advent and Christmas periods, and will be evaluated by the end of the year. In its closing session the day before yesterday, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai also confirmed that, following the amendment of the Public Finance Act last year, there should not be any legal barrier to the publication of the 2018 NMEZ applications in September 2017. This, in turn, will imply that both the number of applications submitted and the amount rightly applied for will again increase in scale for 2018. In order to ensure that the amount to be granted for one tender is not returned to a very low level from three years ago, it is absolutely necessary to increase the tendering framework. I would like to emphasise something very important here. It is not possible to say that no matter how much money I give, it will not be enough, because there will be more applications for mushrooms. Out of the four funding frameworks, take as an example the NEMZ-TAB framework, i.e. the Nemzeti mother tongue student camps. As I said in my speech the day before yesterday, this funding was HUF 30 million, unchanged from 2000 to 2014, which was 375 forints/children per 80 thousand children in primary education, not for a ethnic camp, even for two dumplings of ice cream. One of the outstanding achievements of the last three years' representation of the national minority is that we have been able to raise the 30 million budget by 12 times, or 360 million forints. However, we know that if all we want to achieve is that every child taking part in the education of nationality will only get to the mother country of his nationality once in his primary education, which does not have a mother country, there is at least one nationality native language camp, then this HUF 360 million grant is still only one third of the real, legitimate needs. And here I would stress both realistic and legitimate words, because in this case it is not a matter of writing out any large amount of tender, and then there are more dove associations or beer clubs, and the world's money is not enough; not that I don't like pigeons or beer in particular. But in the national minority mother tongue student camps, there is a fixed round of applications, i.e. how many ethnic schools there are per nationality, how many national minority classes there are, and if our aim is to ensure that all children reach the mother country of their nationality at least once, or the mother tongue camp of their nationality, then the necessary framework can be determined in order of magnitude. I deliberately took as an example out of the four ethnic tender frameworks where, in the last three years, the largest increase in scale has been made - which we thank you for - but, nevertheless, it can be objectively demonstrated, by numbers, that this significantly increased framework still covers only a part of legitimate needs. Secondly, we propose to increase the so-called individual decision-making, currently HUF 250 million, human resources ministerial framework, initiated and established by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary by HUF 130 million in the following areas and on the basis of reasons. [[10.40]] On the one hand, we recommend raising the funding framework for ethnic theatres by extending the tender round with the ethnic amateur theatres playing in the regional language of individual nationalities, as well as the ethnic theatre festivals and meetings - by HUF 20 million. Secondly, we propose to increase the additional funding of HUF 50 million for the institutions of national institutions and local minority self-governments by HUF 10 million, as the number of local minority self-governments will increase with the nationality institutions to be adopted from 1 September 2017. Finally, on the third hand, we propose to increase the additional funding of HUF 100 million for operating and building maintenance of national minority institutions, public education institutions, to increase the number of institutions received, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to increase the specific amount of additional support. The third area: the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary does not make any additional claims in support of national minority self-governments and media in 2018 and in support of institutions maintained by national minority self-governments, with the exception of one area, namely: in order to ensure the cultural autonomy of Hungarian nationalities, from 1 September 2017, more than 45 local minority self-governments, more than 50 ethnic public education institutions, museums, collections and libraries have taken over, and further institutional takeovers are expected in 2018. The establishment of an institutional support and service group with four persons, which will operate within the organisational framework of the National Council of Germans in Hungary, and will assist and assist the local self-governments of all relevant nationalities, institutions and local minority self-governments. We submit an amendment of HUF 27.7 million to perform this task. Fourthly, we would like to increase the investment, renovation and tendering budget of the national minority authorities and local minority self-governments by HUF 882.4 million, due to the low level of the specific framework that can be allocated to one nationality institution and the increase in the number of national minority institutions. Finally, as a fifth point, we recommend that the general operating aid be increased by 20 percent, i.e. by HUF 313.7 million, and by 6 percent, i.e. HUF 98.9 million, the so-called task-based support framework of local minority authorities. The municipal and regional authorities of Hungarian ethnicities are the pillars of cultural autonomy, their increasing tasks justify the increase of their overall operating support and the framework provided for task-based support. At this point, I'd like to make another detour. In yesterday's comment, I said that the HUF 2 billion required for the national education and education programme concerns eight nationalities, since five nationalities do not have a kindergarten or a nationality school. Out of the HUF 1.1 billion detailed today, HUF 110 million of the individual EMMI framework described in points 2 (a) and (b), HUF 27.7 million in accordance with point 3 and the investment, renovation and tender part under point 4 are also linked to ethnic institutions maintained by local governments. Overall, this means that out of the HUF 3 billion HUF 516 million national minority change package, HUF 2 billion HUF 723 million, 77.5 percent of the total demand is affected by those eight nationalities that have national educational institutions. Reversed, the five nationalities who do not have nationality public education institutions, nationality kindergartens and ethnic schools do not benefit directly or indirectly from this amount. Therefore, I would like to thank you publicly for nevertheless voting in favour of the proposal for a amending budget, bearing in mind the future of our children and the survival of our nationalities. Allow me to thank, here and now in Parliament, the Bulgarian, Blagodarya mnogo; the Greek, eucharisto; the Polish, Jikuje barco; the Armenian, šat šnorhakalut.yun and the Ukrainian, velyke spasybi, nationalist parliamentary advocates. Danke vielmals! I sincerely hope that in my comments during the three days, I have informed you in sufficient detail about the need for a budget adjustment of HUF 3 billion to HUF 516 million, its justification and the urgent urgency of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. I hope that I have been able to demonstrate and all of you can see that more than 90 percent of our demands for amendments are for improving the situation of national minority education institutions, children of nationality and the future of our nationalities. Es gibt, s ein deutscher Leitspruch: Die Zukunft muss jeden interessieren, weil er den Rest seines Lebens darin verbringen muss. There is an eternal German saying that the future must be of interest to everyone, because the rest of their lives must be lived in it. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2017-05-19-40	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. There's a circle down, now there's two-minute comments. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make three comments, of which two are linked to the previous speech of State Secretary Soltés. A little more from the Secretary of State - how do I put this? - I'd expect an intellect. His comment, in which he whipped the MSZP, was as simple as the wedge. He came here with the different lines and who owns him. That is quite, to say, a simple political discourse, and then I wouldn't want to be harsher. Let me just say that Soros didn't fund our basic infrastructure. There are no Soros Scholarships in our group, therefore György Soros is not our owner. We simply disagree that you want to close universities in Hungary. I think it's a completely different thing. And I want you to account for who owns you, since you've raised that. It seems that you are constantly changing your masters, once Lajos Simicska, once Lőrinc Mészáros, or someone else who is better suited to their political interests, but this discourse is probably not going to lead us forward when we negotiate the budget. The other is that the government and the Fidesz speakers should decide what the problem is. Now they say that we almost came to Greece in 2009-10, and what a fantastic result you have achieved. Then let me read to you a quote, which reads as follows: "Hungary will soon be world champion with regard to the cutting-off of spending. If you look at what has happened in Hungary over the past year in order to restore financial stability, you will probably be able to classify this as a world record without exaggerating. .. - 2010. CHAPTER VII At the joint press conference between Angela Merkel and Viktor Orbán, the Hungarian Prime Minister took this view on the one year that you are now trying to put on a negative face. Thank you very much for your attention. [[10.50]]
u2017-05-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now it's Congressman Zsolt Nitrai from Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-43	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In my two-minute comment, I would like to respond to my fellow Members Erzsébet Schmuck and Gergely Bárándy on animal protection, as I mentioned this topic in my previous speech, and my basic statement was that the year 2017 was the first year when animal protection was included in the budget. Obviously, this is a symbolic message that the budget makers and adopters think about animals and animal defenders, but of course, the Government of Hungary not only spends this amount on animal protection, but also billions of forints, which I would like to stress here in Parliament; we spend billions of HUF on animal protection and nature protection. In the future, the Government of Hungary will launch a separate animal protection consultation in which it will seek the opinion of animal protection organisations and all people who respect animals. The government will therefore launch this animal protection consultation on important issues in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-19-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister of State Péter Benő Banai responds.
u2017-05-19-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would not respond to Mr Nyitrai, but to Mr Attila Mesterházy, because the quote he mentioned, if I listened well, was given to Prime Minister after the change of government, and the whole point was that the government had taken all the measures to restore financial stability. So I think that it was a necessary and appropriate measure in view of the current results. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to tell Congressman Attila Mesterházy that I can only speak in the next round. As no one has applied for another two-minute speech, it is up to Mr Zsolt Becsó from the Fidesz Group to make a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-19-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The greatest virtue of next year's budget is that it gives almost everyone the opportunity to take one step forward. The result of our tenuous, consistent and committed seven-year work is that Hungary, despite all the opposition's dilapidation, has strengthened, and this strengthening will allow us to take further steps towards full employment, to give priority to the people of work, to the families and to further strengthen the country's security. In 2010, we took over a bankrupt country from the socialists, with indebted municipalities, families in a hopeless situation due to foreign exchange loans. The gross government debt-to-GDP ratio was well over 80%, with lower wages, much fewer people working, value-creating public work unknown, pensioners punished, and corruption reached our necks. However, the 2018 budget will allow us to continue to take steps to achieve full employment, reduce labour taxes and continue to raise wages in the public sector. We support families in particular, we devote more to home creation, we continue to raise the minimum wage, we reduce taxes. We strengthen counter-terrorism and border protection due to the threat of terrorism, continue to reduce public debt, more access to health care, education, road renovations. Support for municipalities will also be stable in 2018. It is pleased that the support system to ensure the stability of local authorities will continue in 2018, while significant EU and domestic development resources will be available. This is particularly important in the county of Nógrád, since the involvement of domestic or EU funds, the implementation of development ideas and the continuation of social inclusion programmes are necessary to speed up the catching-up process. If there is no stable municipal management, there is no predictable and forward-looking urban development policy either. After that, it may not be necessary to explain specifically what budgetary planning, or what it means to ensure stability, is what it means. Within the 2014-2020 development cycle, 2014-2015 was a period of preparation, strength gathering, programming, 2016 a period of preparation of projects, development plans and the first submission of proposals, 2017 was a period of acceleration of processes, the completion of the first EU projects, and 2018 will be a period of unexplored expansion of economic and urban prosperity. This will apply to the whole country, of course, to the county of Nógrád, and in particular to my constituency, East Nógrád. Dear House, We have been waiting for him for a long time, but decisions have finally been taken within the framework of the new operational programme for territorial and territorial development, which directly affects the settlements. There has already been a grant, since for the development of the four- and five-digit routes, HUF 2 billion HUF 633 million, HUF 1 billion HUF 24 million for the county employment pact, the two local pacts, one for the Western Nográd axis - Rétés-Balassegymat axis - and the other for the East-Nógrád region, which includes four free waiting zones, HUF 2 billion HUF 389 million, thus a total of HUF 6 billion 46 million. So this time in the county of Nógrád, without a city of Salgótarján county, a 13.9 billion-dollar bid was decided. 76 settlements in Nógrád county received funding for 130 successful applications. Thanks to the positive decisions, industrial parks and industrial areas can be built in Bercelen, Szír, then in Bátonyterénye and Pásztó. We can achieve socially and environmentally sustainable tourism development in Szurdokpüspöki, where a visitor's centre, which commemorates Kolos Hanák, the father of Mátra tourism, will be established, and the legend of Lőrinc Taron will be revived, Romkert will be renewed in Pásztón and we will build a museum of return in Somoskőújfalu, about four years after the Trianon decision of Czechoslovakia, on 15 February 1924. Without the need for completeness, we are building a nursery in Pásztón and Jobbágyi, implementing environmentally friendly green development in Bátonyterény. Municipal and environmental infrastructure development starts in Szécsényfelfalu, Nagylóc, Palotás, Sóshartyán and Vizslás. We are launching local energy upgrades in Szarvasgeden, Lucfalva and Márkháza, with basic health care infrastructure improvements in Mátranovak, Nemti, Kazaron, Mátramindszenten and Dorogháza. In the social field, basic services will be expanded in Surdokpüspöki, Bátonyterénye and Taron. In the coming days, new decisions will be made, where the projects concerned will also be eligible for billion-dollar funding. Dear House, The largest volume of developments following the change of regime is also launched in Salgótarján county-righted town. The county of Nógrád is important to the government, it is important in Salgótarján, so it is no coincidence that in the 2014-2020 planning period the largest aid has been assessed in the TOP framework of both the county and the city. The direct development aid of HUF 1.5 billion at the end of the last year will make the picture more colourful and grander for the former mining town and the programme of modern cities, which, let's face it, will give Nógrád county its seat an unprecedented and experienced chance to speed up its catch-up. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2018 budget provides the opportunity to implement its development plans in addition to the sound municipal funding of the county of Nógrád and the city of Salgótarján county. Thank you for listening.
u2017-05-19-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the proper speeches. I am speaking from the MSZP Group to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-19-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, In yesterday's government briefing, János Lázár rebooted that family support will be increased in the next period, and Prime Minister will announce new things in the coming weeks. We look forward to it, because the budget does not include the things John Lázár has been floating for weeks to say that the increase in the family allowance that we have demanded every year in recent years has already been done. I have already said on Wednesday several times this week that it would be good for the ministries to consult, because Katalin Novák completely denied these news, which János Lázár announced yesterday. [[11.00]] János Lázár also said yesterday that in the coming years we will have to make the number of children increase by 30,000 a year. When I read this yesterday, I did not know whether John Lazarus was in a funny mood or if he did not know the data. 93,000 children were born in Hungary last year, and in the last six years there have been 78 thousand children who have seen the world abroad, which means that about 10 to 11 thousand children are born abroad every year, who are otherwise registered in Hungary. So the family policy of the last few years doesn't really prove that we could have any hope that the Fidesz would stay on the government longer to reach this coveted figure of 30,000. My fellow Members have repeatedly said that next year's budget is a budget of injustice and corruption. I'd just like to point out a few things. Yesterday, my fellow Members said that the norm of the child attending church school is increasing from HUF 160,000 to HUF 200,000, while the standard of children attending public school is reduced from HUF 61,000 to HUF 58 thousand. So, where's justice here? Tell me! [[Miklós Soltész's name.]] Don't laugh, Mr. Secretary. There's nothing funny about this, I don't think. [[Miklós Soltész: No. It's just silly.]] This week came the minimum life calculation, which, of course, hasn't been calculated by KSH for years now. More than two thirds of Hungarian families live under the minimum living standards, and you said here Zsolt Becsó in his speech that this budget is also a step forward for all families. Today, income differences have increased tenfold. In 2010, when government was taken over, it was seven times the lowest income and the richest, and now we see that it has jumped ten times. It's because of your government. And I'll tell you again that two thirds of the families live below the minimum of living. It was you, about 47,000 children who had fallen out of all kinds of care systems in connection with the delivery of the school obligation to 16 years. About 47,000 children are now not receiving any support schemes. You are the ones who legalized child labor in Hungary. The number of children who work in the community for poverty reasons is estimated at 4-5 thousand - because the 16-year-old child is the child because he grew up from 18 years. I already told you on Wednesday about the figures that show how much less they spend on welfare functions in the social services system in proportion to GDP. I'm not gonna repeat myself. I would now like to talk about some of the amendments that we have tabled. I have mentioned that, in order to give priority to families, we see the need to increase the family allowance for all children. The family allowance was last raised in 2008. About 35-40 percent of the family allowance was lost in real terms. Here we initiate a 50 percent increase. We also recommend an increase in the holiday meals of children in need, and we would like a greater support for the kitchens, for the development of kitchens. Here we propose a 50 percent frame increase. Let me say here, I know that yesterday, in Parliament's walls, they said that I am not telling the truth when I am talking about not getting the kind of support that you are communicating to the municipalities and the children. There are 208 thousand children at the holiday meal, that 208 thousand children should receive the holiday meal on a needy basis. This has been assessed by you on the basis of a survey by the Ministry of National Economy and the EMMI. It's a lot more than that, but they've changed the calculation method. You know, I always get the data. So few people can use it because they put one half sentence in the law that the parent has to ask. I have repeatedly said in Parliament's walls that the parent is either ashamed or does not know that this is due to him. If you know specifically that 208,000 children are in need, I don't understand why this can't be solved. During spring break, 96,000 people used it during spring break 2016. Now they won't even release the data, even though I ask you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári won't even give it up, he won't comply with his legal obligations. Social aid must be increased in any way. It should be mentioned here that it was you who took away a number of social support, including housing support, housing support. In order to reduce housing poverty, the social housing programme should be launched. I can only repeat myself that it is a budget of injustice and corruption. We continue to see that the budget includes hundreds of billions of forints of visual investments, which the country does not really need anymore. Every week, the water world budget increases by billions of forints, and we can't even see how it ends. I think that we should actually translate more into Hungarian families, not only orally, but also actually. This is what the Hungarian population would expect, and this would be what the Hungarian Socialist Party would expect. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2017-05-19-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Miklós Soltész asked for the floor from the government. I would like to inform the House that the KDNP Group has indicated to housekeeping that, following the statement by State Secretary Soltész, it will hand over its timeframe, the remaining timeframe, to the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-19-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At the end of his comment, he said that we should give more to families not only in words but also in actions. Then I'll help you get the numbers. For the sake of the needy. The minimum wage increase will continue by 8 percent next year, with a guaranteed minimum wage of 12 percent. The increase in family tax relief for families with two children will continue next year. Not only did you support it back then, but you took it away from the children of one and two. We have extended the family tax allowance to a contribution allowance, so 94 percent of them can use it for families who live from work and are not coerced into often humiliating benefits. But you have a completely different social philosophy, and we will never reconcile that. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes!]] Home-building support. It will rise by HUF 16 billion next year. It means that the support for home creation will go up to HUF 226 billion, which, by the way, you completely abolished before 2010. Once again, as I have said before, people have been forced into the foreign exchange credit facility with which they have been trapped, and there have been an incredible number of family tragedies. Cradle care. In 2018, it will be HUF 37 billion. During your administration, this was HUF 11.1 billion, so the increase is more than three times higher. If you look at the support of the truly poorest family members and families with many children who make the most sacrifices, the free and discounted meal will rise to HUF 74 billion this year, with a further HUF 6 billion next year, precisely HUF 5.3 billion, to HUF 79.3 billion. Compared to your governance, this is a two-and-a-half-fold increase in support and expansion. What if it's not the support of the needy and the fallen? By the way, I don't understand what you're saying, on what grounds, that holiday meals aren't sufficient. Your support was 2.4 billion in 2010. Next year it will be 6.7 billion forints. Here, too, there has been a huge increase, and it is not only limited to summer holidays, but also to all other school holidays. If that's not enough for you, I'd like to keep going. Supporting a free textbook. More than one million students, 85 percent of students. What if it's not the support of the needy and the families, by the way? The same is true for pensioners, too, because I repeat this once again, for example, when many times you are being called to account for the fact that Fidesz, KDNP policy does not support women and women, you should look in the mirror and see if you voted in favour of women's retirement in the 40s at the time, or not. They didn't vote. [[11.10]] We now give this opportunity to nearly 200,000 women, and we also ensure that we do not lose a month's pension, but in six or seven years, as a result of the rise in real value, we have actually returned the pension reduction that you have taken away. Despite the fact that we have been able to promise to keep pensions in real terms in line with the economic situation, I would add that not only has pensions increased by more than 10 percent in the last six or six and a half years, but also this year and next year's budget will have the opportunity to complement this with a pension premium. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I understand your frustration, I understand that whether in interpellations or immediate matters, we are now in the budgetary debate being called to account for a misinterpreted family policy, which resulted in an increase in divorces at the time, a decrease in the number of marriages, a significant reduction in childbearing. The opposite has been happening since 2010: the number of marriages has increased greatly, the number of divorces has decreased greatly, the number of children has increased, and it is also a special pleasure that abortions have been greatly reduced. Yes, this is due to a family policy that has doubled the family support system from 900 billion to 1900 billion forints, of which only one piece, some of which is the support system and demand that you are constantly saying and saying, which you would like to achieve, which you would definitely like to receive support for. Believe me, it is not just the family allowance that depends on a family's desire to have children and on the support. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Thank you very much for letting me say all this, however, precisely because you always raise and raise it, and we can prove with numbers how much change has happened over the last few years, and this will also be reflected in the 2018 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-52	Welcome. I wish you good work. We have a chance at this good job, because Congressman Kucsák, the representative of Fidesz, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was a very noble human gesture, thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-54	That's me, what do I do? [[Defiance.]]
u2017-05-19-55	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in the general debate on the 2018 budget, to recommend some of the circumstances in the field of education that appear in the budget proposal. It may not be uninteresting if we pay attention to them, and then the facts can be compared with the assumptions. It has already been said in the ministerial expozee and in the statement by the Secretary of State that the budget for 2018 is a budget for those who live in work. I would also like to list a few elements in terms of public education and higher education where this takes place, and I would also mention some other development intentions, which are covered in the budget for the, 18, even because if we look at this overall, there is a surplus of around 81,3 billion in this area compared to the 2017 budget. So for the teacher career and the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. Based on government decisions over the past period, teachers' career models have been included in the scope of the non-peda-teacher career model, but they are highly skilled and qualified employees, as well as teachers in the child protection sector, and are therefore included in the 2018 qualification plan. From 1 January 2017, teachers who are not qualified or qualified will receive a 10% wage increase and, as a result of the legislative amendments, a reduced teacher's level I teacher's allowance of up to seven years before retirement or pension as of 1 January 2017. budgetary resources have also been created in order to classify them. As a result of the multi-annual wage agreement linked to the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the Klebelsberg Centre will present HUF 8 billion of HUF 761.3 million in the 2018 budget proposal. Regulation (EC) No 326/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). According to the government decree, teachers who exercise the role of head of the classroom and head of the working community are entitled to a one-hour reduction per week for teachers who perform two-to-two hours a week of student self-government assistance. The Klebelsberg Center will receive HUF 1 billion and HUF 514.5 million as a surplus in the budget proposal of 18th. From 2018, children can receive the textbook free of charge in the first nine years, which will affect more than one million students and their parents next year. A further HUF 1 billion HUF 930 million was added to the proposal in 2018 in order to ensure the legal availability of professionals in the field of pedagogical and pedagogical institutes. In the case of public education institutions maintained by the Klebelsberg Centre, there is a need to increase investment and renovation opportunities in cases requiring urgent intervention, in particular in the Central Hungary region, where EU funds cannot be used. The 2018 bill contains a surplus of HUF 3 billion for these investments and renovations, which I can only welcome, as we ourselves experience the capital of XVIII. the fact that we have limited access to EU funds in this region. This is why it is welcome that, thanks to the decision of the government in December of last year, we will be able to achieve a preschool capacity expansion work this year, with a development amount of 100 million. It is perhaps worth mentioning that, thanks to the KEOP or KEOP competitions in KEOP, in our district, Pestszentlőrinc and Pestszentimre, we have only recently been able to upgrade, renovate, renovate, renovate, renovate, renovate, the Darus School, the Brasov School, the Kassa School in the suburban area of Lőrinc, or the General School of Kastélydomb or the Táncsics School in Pestszentimre. This is an improvement of well over one and a half billion in terms of sum. Of course, this process has also affected kindergartens and nursery schools, and work will continue, and in the near future we will be on this path with three institutions. So I can certainly welcome this ambition, this intention and this additional resource. In the context of higher education. The Higher Education Act established the structural transformation of higher education, and the new sectoral strategy for higher education provided clear guidance for Hungarian higher education. The main aim of the transformation is to improve the competitiveness of the sector, to address the needs of the economy and the labour market, to increase the weight of technical, IT and scientific training courses, to introduce and continue solutions and programmes to increase access to higher education, to transform the structure and content of training and to ensure the return of social costs for training. Higher education should also provide higher education as part of domestic and international networks, research, development and innovation in the following year. Through the chancellor system, the aim is to promote economic operation, to strengthen training and learning discipline, and to guarantee the quality of the diploma. Let me mention a few things in particular here. Article 2 of the Higher Education Act. According to § (1) of the Act, the basic activity of higher education institutions is education, scientific research, artistic creative activity. One of the foundations of scientific research is high-quality PhD education, there is a clear correlation between international recognition and the number of PhD degrees issued by that university. [[11.20]] The basic activity of higher education institutions is education, scientific research and artistic creative activity. One of the foundations of scientific research is high-quality PhD education, there is a clear correlation between international recognition and the number of PhD degrees issued by that university. (11.20) Thus, a major increase in the number of PhD students and quality is an essential tool for improving international competition positions. The PhD grew from the previous three years to two plus two years, with the government increasing the PhD students' scholarship in the first two years to 140 thousand forints/month, while the scholarship was 180 thousand forints/month in the second two years. From 1 January 2018, the guaranteed salary of teachers, researchers and teachers employed in state-owned higher education institutions will continue to increase. With the help of career models and other targeted wage increases, the government provides workers with predictability and wage increases adapted to the burden-bearing capacity of the economy. This means that the average wage level is 115 per cent compared to the guaranteed salary in 2015 and 120,8 per cent in 2017 and 126,8 per cent in 2018, as the base was the raised salary in the previous year each year. In 2018 in addition to the base forecast, the government provides HUF 10 billion HUF 763.6 million to state higher education institutions and HUF 421.2 million to non-state higher education institutions. Infrastructure investments will continue. Let me mention some of these. In 2018, capacity development and the development of research and development potential in connection with the expansion of foreign language training at the University of Pécs will continue, and the development will continue at the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, the construction of the creative innovation and knowledge park of MOME Campus, and the new campus of the Institute will continue at the University of Physical Education, as well as the construction of related sports facilities, accommodation and service facilities. At the Eötvös Loránd University, the complete renovation of the Márton Áron College building and the improvement of the college infrastructure can begin in 2018. In the case of the University of Óbuda, the investment started in the college will continue in 2018. In addition to the above, in the framework of the national college development strategy, HUF 1 billion can be spent on college development in 2018, starting the development of higher education institutions in Hungary with higher quality, livable and better suited colleges and campuses. Furthermore, the replacement of PPP schemes will continue, resulting in significant savings for the State in 2018. Finally, let me mention the support of the Stipendium Hungaricum programmes, where a surplus of 3 billion will appear. The educational policy objective of this programme is to promote internationalization and quality development of Hungarian higher education, strengthen the international relations of the Hungarian scientific elite, increase the cultural diversity of higher education institutions and promote competitive Hungarian higher education in the world. Compared to 2017, as I said, there is a surplus of 3 billion, and more than 5,000 scholarships are expected to be launched. I call on my fellow Members to consider what has been said and to support the budget proposal for 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-56	Thank you very much. The representative of Jobbik, Mr Csaba Gyüre, is the next speaker. Here.
u2017-05-19-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak about the pay of justice workers. I mean, first of all, the people of the court and the DA's office. We know that the court is an independent branch of power, and the independence of the courts is very important. It is very important that the judges and the court, as a branch of power, are able to maintain this independence. Democracy can only function properly if these democratic institutions are able to operate independently of each other and the courts remain completely independent in their judgment. We would also consider it very important, and I have said it in previous budgetary debates, as well as in the debate on the Fundamental Law, that we would consider our proposal as the most important, if it were not for the fiscal law to determine the number of courts in the first place, but that we could have already regulated it at the basic level of law. At the time, my fellow Member Tamás Gaudi-Nagy and I tabled an amendment to the Fundamental Law that would have already included this, which is important because Parliament - as one of the most important segments of the autonomous power sector, such as the legislative power - can define the budget chapter of the courts, determine the salary of judges, and thus, in some respects, influence the court as an independent authority. It would be appropriate to eliminate this. Unfortunately, this was not adopted in the Fundamental Law at the time by the then two-thirds majority, so it was not introduced. It is a very important principle that judges are subject only to the law, and what is very important is what CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges is saying. a law stating that the judge is entitled to remuneration corresponding to the dignity and responsibilities of his or her profession, ensuring his or her independence. This is a very important question: will they receive this salary? Let's see what resolution the National Judicial Association has formulated, which is the largest such body that brings together judges. At its meeting in December 2015, their election stated that the lack of a judicial salary increase would jeopardise the existential security of judges. I think that this is a very important sentence, and I will also explain why the association said so. The association also highlighted that in 2004 the judicial wage was nearly three times the average Hungarian salary, while today it has decreased by one and a half times. This means that, in real terms, judges' salaries have been reduced by 50 percent, and when I talk about judges' salaries, I understand the remuneration of prosecutors as well, because according to the law, the two are linked and the wages of prosecutors and judges are equal. It is a shocking statistical fact that, compared to 2004, when we joined the European Union, justice payments in Hungary have been reduced by half in real terms over the years in the European Union. This is a huge real wage drop! The National Judicial Association concluded from this that due to modest income and increasing obligations, the organisation of the courts will not be able to obtain the best lawyers. Here's one of the most important things. On the one hand, in order for judges to be independent, it is necessary to provide them with an adequate standard of living so that they cannot be bribed, paid bribes cannot be given to them, and cannot be influenced in any way. There are rules of conflict of interest under which judges are banned from virtually all types of employment, except for their teaching and performing activities, so they are excluded from all places except one or two exceptions, they must not engage in any other work, they must not have a second job. They are also largely banned from political activity, they are virtually limited to their voting rights and are banned from everything else. There are very strict rules of conflict of interest, despite which today's policy does not accept it, and the current governing parties do not accept the level of salary that judges and prosecutors should pay, nor do they consider it to be a measure of the fact that the salaries of judges and prosecutors have virtually halved in real terms since 2004. If we look at the period since the change of regime, we see that it was first in 1991 that a larger wage arrangement took place on the proposal of István Balsai, then they were trying to catch up on the payment of Hungarian judges to the European wage system. No one touched this for a long time, then in 2003 and in 2004 there was a significant increase in salaries for them in two steps, after which the 13th month's allowance was virtually closed or cancelled, both at the prosecutors and at the judges. However, the Parliament compensated this in so far as it included the amount of the basic wage, so if it was a basic wage increase, this was to replace the 13th month allowance, and the difference was 0.5 per cent, so the wage increase was this big. It has not been virtually since 2004, it is true that now, at the end of 2016 and at the end of January 2017, there has been a 10% wage increase in total, but if you look at the 50 percent real wage decline in this sector, you can say that the 10% wage development is virtually zero. [[11.30]] But let's look at a little international comparison. What is most shocking, and since 2010, the National Judicial Association has constantly drawn the attention of the Hungarian government that the salaries of the courts and prosecutors are very deep below the bottom of the frog in international comparison. What does that mean in detail? What we need to see is that Hungary is the last, 28th, in terms of net earnings in the European Union. Obviously, there must be one last person in the European Union. However, we would have thought that Hungary, when we always hear how the Hungarian economy is growing, that here we are first in Europe in terms of GDP growth, is soaring the economy here, but we see that there is a sector that the government is treating as a full stepchild and that they are completely behind average incomes. As I have noted, the average salary has increased by how much, compared to this in the courts and prosecutors, the remuneration has increased only to a very, very, very small extent. But to see this last place: even with this 10 percent increase, which has now taken place at the end of the year in two instalments, twice in terms of 5 percent, Hungary is last in terms of net income. I cannot comment on whether there was wage development in Bulgaria in the judicial sector, in the budget chapter of the courts and prosecutors, in the personal benefits, but if it has not been in the last two years, we have reached Bulgaria in a dead race, and now we are not alone in 28th place, but in Bulgaria. But for example, in neighbouring Austria, although I do not say that we should compare it to them, I would like to say that, as a comparison, wages are threefold, while in Romania there are more than 50 percent, in the Czech Republic there are close double salaries, in Poland there are nearly 60 percent more, in Croatia there are also nearly 60 percent higher judges and prosecutors' salaries. So I am not saying that we should catch up to the Austrian level, but in any case we should at least catch up to the average wage level of the neighbouring countries. This also brings with it, and we usually never say anything about it, that the judges who have already worked their active years and are retiring are also the last in Hungary. Obviously because if the judges and prosecutors pay last place, then pensions will be set on the basis of this, and Hungary will be able to earn 24-28th place in the amount of the judges' pensions. So it's important from this point of view, too. And I would like to draw attention to one more thing. When a judge works, the average hourly rate of a starting judge, including the current raise, will come out to 3,000 forints. While the public defender, who also does not receive much money, and we have also tabled a proposal to amend this with my fellow Members, he will receive HUF 5 000 per hour. But then let's talk about either the remuneration of bailiffs or the remuneration of experts, which is also much, much higher than the hourly fee of judges. So, if you look at the case's master in the whole procedure, the lowest wage in the entire procedure is by far the highest, who decides the dispute, and who must have the greatest professional knowledge. So I think that's why it's very important to have a bigger raise in this. For its part, Jobbik Hungary proposed a 30% wage improvement in this draft budget law, and we would like to amend it as such. If you look at why it doesn't happen like in other areas, then you can only find that there is no wage development here because Fidesz-KDNP loves it and only rewards the person who makes decisions that meet its expectations. He doesn't watch him be subject to laws. No, he's making decisions that are in the interests of the government. And if he doesn't make decisions, and the court is completely independent, they haven't been able to grind up the courts yet, then that's what they're punishing him for not getting paid. This also applies to the prosecutor's office, where the situation is completely different because there is compliance with a government, especially under the direct direction of Attorney General Péter Polt. We also see that the prosecutor's fee is exactly the same, but with the budget being made available, there are the possibilities that, at the moment, the salary of prosecutors is about 15 percent higher than that of the judges. I'm not saying you have to take this. I say that we need to increase both sectors, and I think that 30 percent today is the extent to which this is appropriate. That's more than 10 percent of what's already happened. For the rest of the minute, I'd like to talk about the fact that I think the public defender's fee is quite low. It is true that a few years ago this amount was raised from HUF 4,000 to HUF 5 000, but depending on the time passed and the work they have done, in order for a public defender to do a responsible job, to get to know the case documents properly, to meet his client, to talk about it, the energy turned to him should be recovered and raised. In addition, I think it is very important to address the issue of cross-border legal assistance, which was the idea of my fellow Member Tamás Gaudi-Nagy about six years ago. We would also consider it important to separate 60 million forints; and also to care for the graves of war, we think that a significant amount should be allocated from the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2017-05-19-58	Thank you very much. Two-minute speech, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-05-19-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The house rules are weird, so I can respond to an earlier remark an hour later. Mr Banai's brief comment inspired me from one side. You said this was a post-government quote from the Prime Minister, didn't you? That's right. I meant it as if you were saying that in two months you had already put the country in order in 2010, and that was what the Prime Minister could refer to. Therefore, let me read it again: Hungary is slowly becoming world champion with regard to the cutting-off of expenditures. If you look at what has happened - and let me put a little emphasis here - we have been talking about July 2010 in Hungary in the last year, so from July 2009 onwards - to restore financial stability, you can probably classify this as a world record without exaggerating. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The world record is usually not a negative rating according to the Hungarian language rules. So this is what I referred to in the debate, that everyone stood up chorusically, in what terrible conditions the economy had been in before 2010, and the Prime Minister, which you have elected, says exactly the opposite in his first statement after the change of government. And just because Mr Soltés has always remembered this, I would like to remind the record that Mr Soltés has had enough of the debate and has left the room half an hour ago and does not want to argue with us. It's a shame and it's a nasty thing and it's puffy. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-60	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Banai has come forward. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There is no doubt that the economic crisis has hit Hungary very deeply, very hard. There is a country in our region whose economic performance has not been reduced, such as Poland. I think it makes me wonder why the crisis has affected Hungary so deeply. One of the reasons why we are talking about a budget is that there have been six consecutive years when we have either the largest Member States in the European Union or the second largest lack of public finances. Following these fundamentals, in the time of the economic crisis, the then government reacted to these processes mutatis mutandis. Another question is whether or not he reacted well. This reaction was part of the 13th month's wage or the 13th month's pension, and in 2010, after the change of government, the then government had to take measures to restore financial stability. As I recall, Prime Minister, at the beginning of his speech as head of the newly elected government, he presented the measures that had to be taken by the government for stability. [[11.40]] Because, along with the steps that took place before 2010, the deficit for GDP would have been around 7 percent in 2010. Therefore, my comment was that there was no doubt that there were measures taken by the Government before 2010. Whether these measures were good or bad, whether they helped to solve the crisis or whether they deepened it, this is a separate professional debate. Our statement is that the new instruments used by the government after 2010 have managed the crisis successfully. We see countries in Europe that have used, so to speak, only traditional instruments, only instruments that have affected and are suffering from the reduction of purchasing power. There's been a talk in Greece. Indeed, today's news is that the Greek Parliament is now debating cuts in expenditure, if you will. It's different with us, that's what I wanted to record. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-62	Thank you very much. We'll continue the two-minute lap. Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz!
u2017-05-19-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, For the sake of factuality: in the last twenty-some years, there has not been much of a case in which the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has not listened to the current budget's ministerial exposé in the Chamber, and I would like to add this, because President Mesterházy was not present in the Chamber when Minister Mihály Varga spoke, when the President of the State Audit Office said his speech. It is also a factual matter, so to talk about who is now in the room, I think it is rather unfriendly and phooey, Mr. Attila Mesterházy. [[Attila Mesterházy: Good!]] But, of course, we can also say that what he was talking about - said the Secretary of State - was, indeed, at the end of 2009, when Parliament adopted the draft budget here, that budget failed about three days later, because it contained public finances that had built the 2010 budget on a lie that you recognised. And when the Prime Minister spoke about this, he pointed out exactly that, and told everyone that in 2010, after the days of the change of government, if Parliament had not carried out the activity that he had done here, Hungary would have been in bankruptcy, not only close to bankruptcy. And this comparison is worth what we are now doing with Greece. And what are we talking about this year's budget? Tax reductions, such as the reduction of the VAT on fish, wage increases and a zero budget, when public spending is in proportion to income. And I think that's what you don't know, and you won't be able to explain to your constituents why you don't support it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Attila Mesterházy has come forward on a case-by-case basis, who is obviously familiar with the rules of the order of business. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-65	Thank you very much. I'd like to report for personal assault. In fact, my own sentence implied that it was completely unnecessary - and I was trying to underline it with an ironic remark - to argue about who, how many, where are taking part in the meeting. But since Mr Secretary of State kept doing this to us, I had to draw attention to this. By the way, I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that there is a very useful app in this House. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Were you present or not?]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Were you present or not?]] where you can watch live what's happening in this house. So maybe it'll help if someone can't be here in person. I, if necessary, can quote both Minister Varga (Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Were you present or not?) His words and the words of President Domokos. I didn't sit in here, it's a fact and it's true. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: That's it!]] I think that was totally okay. Nothing new has been said, by the way, in what they have to say. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-66	Thank you very much. The speech can also be taken as a contribution to the IT chapter of the budget [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] which praises Parliament's IT developments. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Thank you, Mr. President.]] Further speeches and comments on this subject are otherwise undesirable. Now, let us continue with the speeches that have been announced in advance. Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz representative. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a representative of a constituency bordering on the northern side of the East Highlands, from the east to Transcarpathia and from the southeast to the Partium, so allow me to deal with the cross-border Hungarianism and national policy regarding the draft budget law of 2018. The fact that Hungary is growing stronger is good news for Hungarians across the border. Even this year's budget has spent multiples of the amount allocated to national policy in previous years. We have been able to raise almost everywhere, thanks to Hungary's economic situation. The Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin are the winners of the current government. Support is being provided from several locations across the border, by sector. In addition to the HUF 5 billion increase in funding paid through the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we need to highlight the role of economic recovery programmes that we are delivering through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and the Ministry of Human Resources is also taking a large part in cultural and health support to mention only the most important items. The fundamental issue of national policy, in which, fortunately, there is a consensus that we would like to see Hungarians across the border prosper in their homeland, and to support them psychologically, but it is also very important to support them in economic, educational and social terms. The economic support system launched in Southern Hungary, Croatia, Muravidék, Transcarpathia and Felvidék, which provides Hungarian entrepreneurs with cheap credit and non-refundable support, provides significant support for survival, for example, in Serbia, where there is significant migration or even Transcarpathia, where this is also characteristic due to the economic and military consequences of the war. Today, a Hungarian farmer from Transcarpathia, who is familiar with it, said that today he has reached the point of slowly forgiving Hungary's rejection in the referendum on 5 December 2004 thanks to the support from the motherland. On the other hand, we got to the point that his Ruthenian or Ukrainian friend envies that he is not Hungarian now. It was a long time ago that the southern Hungarian man was also in such a situation. And all of this has been achieved by strengthening the good neighbourly relationship with Serbia, which is shown by the fact that after its election President Vucic said that he did not want the Hungarians to leave his country. In other words, prosperity in the homeland has become his goal. There are few examples of this since Trianon, so to speak of the Hungarian minority as a leader of a neighbouring country. We have also launched the economic recovery programme in Slovakia, which, like the Southern region, aims to strengthen Slovakia's more neglected southern lane, the Highlands. The Hungarian national policy is not on the same footing here either, as the calming of the sharpened tone has also started to bring the first very serious results: it has been included in the Slovak government programme to officially consider the presence of indigenous minorities as valuable, and the Act on the National Cultural Fund has been adopted. The importance of this is no less than the fact that national minority organisations will distribute the amount per nationality, thus finally legitimizing and financially supporting minorities. We are also preparing to launch an economic recovery programme in Transylvania. Obviously, this will be the largest volume of all, but this is not yet the subject of the 2018 budget. Generally speaking, economic recovery programmes have not yet received such assistance from Hungarians across the border, including Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises, which work together mainly with Hungarian partners and suppliers. The sum of this is HUF 50 billion divided into three years in the South and HUF 32 billion in Transcarpathia. I would also like to explain why the HUF 8 billion HUF 635 million planned to support institutions of national importance is well founded. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Ferenc Rákóczi The addition of the operating costs of the Hungarian Academy of Transcarpathia expires on 30 June 2017. So from this summer onwards, the operation and development of the college is no longer ensured. The increase in energy prices and minimum wages in Ukraine will further increase costs. Today, it would be useless to expect a country torn apart by war from internal conflicts to maintain our Hungarian-language college or even make a significant contribution to its costs. If we wanted to adhere to this principle and enforce our legitimate expectations from the Ukrainian state, then we would only be able to watch the Hungarian intellectuals disappear in Transcarpathia and, as a result, our nation's community there will slowly fall apart. [[11.50]] Similarly, we need a sober approach and every naive approach in the case of Hungarian higher education institutions operating in Romania, Sapientia and the Partium Christian University. The case of the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Târgu Mures is an example of what kind of farmer Romanian education is. Romania is also crossing its own educational law if it is to protect the interests of Hungarians. This is why it is important that we have economic power today, and we can also provide Hungarian higher education abroad. With the above mentioned role of the intellectuals, it can also be justified that 800 million HUF has been allocated to support the scholarship of Hungarian students and teachers abroad. To improve a historical memory loss with the Unlimited! programme, for which we spend 2 billion in 2018 so that through the experience of personal encounters Hungarian students can understand the fragmentation of our nation. We spend a special amount on keeping the mother tongue: HUF 235 million would cover this task and HUF 100 million in support of other cultural tasks. On the other hand, there is HUF 100 million to cover the health care of Hungarians across the border, which is understandable on the one hand because of the public health conditions of some of our neighbours and the localisation of hospitals. It is impossible for me to mention all the items, so extensive and wide-ranging now the support system of Hungarians across the border. In summary, I would just like to say that these increased subsidies are only enough to create the most necessary foundations for our Hungarian communities to survive. We also need to strengthen our community psychologically, as we are now legally linked by Hungarian citizenship to most communities, but for the 100th anniversary of Trianon, we need more targeted support for our fellow nations on the other side of the border. That is why, my fellow Members, I ask you to adopt the bill on the budget for 2018, as it also helps Hungarians across the border to thrive in their homeland. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-19-68	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP. Here.
u2017-05-19-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We have said this in many cases, and I still hold it to this day, that this is really a budget of injustice. And the reason we say this a lot is because we have different philosophy, different importance for you, different importance for us. We care about all the people in Hungary, and we see the people behind the numbers, as long as probably those who make the budget see the numbers so that this budget is numerically correct. But they don't pay attention to the fact that every decision they make, every line of them, there are people and people's lives behind them. That is why they do not care, and it is unfair not to deal with people who are in the worst fate, who are in the most difficult living conditions. State Secretary Soltes has listed what he thinks has been done for families and people with families. There was only one thing that was very telling, that, as he spoke to us, he repeatedly addressed us that he had never looked us in the eye. He looked all over the place, because he knows best on the inside that the people who are in the most difficult fates, the rural and rural population, who have families, would start their lives now, just those who walk unfairly in this budget. Why am I saying this? It's the family tax relief that doesn't affect most of them. It doesn't matter because they don't earn enough to enforce it. It's really unfair for people who really need extra family income, and they're not gonna get it. They are the two layers that are minimum wagers or those who are employed in the public sector. The minimum wage was taxed by you, and from here on out, it's no question that they were worse off. Those who now work as public workers can't dream of enforcing family tax relief. They are the ones who are not affected by the support for home creation; they are the ones who are not affected by the CSOK. They are the ones who have really been left on the side of the road, who are not dealt with by this government and are not dealt with by this budget, which is the year 2018. Therefore, these are the people who, in the next year and a half, cannot see an opportunity to improve their lives. State Secretary Soltés also said that, in a manner of speaking, it could be said that the 13th month pension was ultimately returned. This is typically when I brought it, and I didn't. Because pensioners feel that they don't. You guys say it a lot, so I'm sure some of you believe it, because when you hear it a lot, some time you think he's miscounting, but it just doesn't add up numerically, because retired people don't feel it. But they would have had the opportunity, because our government, whatever they claim, we just suspended this 13th month pension, but you didn't return it for seven years. They would have had the opportunity, since they say that the economy is doing very well. If the economy had done very well, this would have been an opportunity. They didn't want to live with it because they don't want to deal with pensioners. It will also appear at the trial of the next law that you are submitting another law that will further drive pensioners into exploitation. State Secretary Soltés also said that your family support has doubled. The only problem is, and it's also unfair that 100 billion forints were taken out of the pockets of the lowest layers in this area. Then it's not fair, it can't be fair anywhere! I think it's you who don't care about the people you make promises to. They don't care about paramedics, because they're promised big words that they'll get a huge raise, and then they'll announce 10 percent in a luxury bistro. These people will not forget what you say, my fellow Members and Secretary of State, because they will hear the promises in the press and see that they will not receive them. In many cases, I have also said what is one of the hardest things is that the basic salary of the people who are also helping you with your work at committee meetings and helping the Parliament to function has not been increased in seven years now. Neither are the employees of the local government, but they are told to give, if there is anything; we will allow you to give. However, the municipalities have been so exploited that they have nothing to add to this budget. This is a really unfair budget for young people, which is why one in six children is born abroad today. One in six Hungarian children is born abroad, because today a young person has no vision, no opportunity to start a family, no opportunity to buy a home, no opportunity to buy a car, and the smaller settlements we go to, the less opportunities he has to work for a salary he can make a living on. That is why we say that this is a budget of injustice. That's why we're saying that it would be the right thing to do if they went inside and saw you behind the numbers. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-70	Thank you very much. We'd have a two-minute window, but no one came forward for a two-minute speech. Thus, as a pre-notified speaker, Mr Attila Gelencsér, representative of Fidesz, will be followed. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the most important presentation of the year, the budget bill, which could give rise to thousands of thoughts in the minds of every Member. I have now chosen to present, through the budget of the largest municipality of my constituency, Kaposvár, why this budget is good, why it is worth supporting. But first of all, perhaps the most interesting sentence I have plagiarised with the Secretary of State; at a residential forum last night, I told the Kaposvár people that the only item that has fallen in this budget is the amount to support the unemployed, because there are fewer and fewer people. In addition, each item has only increased, and this can be seen from the municipal budget in Kaposvár. I met the Kaposvár yesterday, the day before yesterday and the night before at the residential forum, every night. I feel from their words that they too see that it will be easier for them to get along, both in 2017 and 2018, and they feel that they can make one or more progress in the majority of them. We're moving towards full employment in Kaposvár. Now we're talking about an unemployment rate of around 4 percent. And if we achieve that it is worth working and that we are able to retrain those who are still outside the world of work, it is for us a very short-term objective that can be seen and achieved. More and more support for families in the city's budget, unlike opposition opinions. [[12.00]] As much about security as it is about the citizens of the city saying that public security may never have been so good in our country, and the fact that neither mayor nor Member of Parliament has ever received as many votes in Kaposvár as in the referendum against or against the compulsory resettlement quota; last year, 25 thousand people agreed with the government's migration policy in Kaposvár. So in general, I wanted to start by saying that there is an improving trend in the budget. Let's look at state aid, let's look at development resources and look at our own revenue line. First of all, the career models show a wage increase of 8-10 percent in the budget - I am talking about municipal staff, as appropriate - for public education, the social sector and from 2016 onwards also for daycare workers. In the social sector, the social sector's combined bonus has been a significant step forward. In support of public education tasks, I would like to say in short, there is a surplus of HUF 28 million. In terms of social, child welfare and child catering, the surplus is HUF 74 million, and the amount that can be spent on child meals and free meals is increased by HUF 35 million. Libraries and culture support: libraries will receive 2.4 million more from the city's budget, and culture can grow by HUF 24 million. Overall, the task-based funding that we adopted here in the House in 2013 came up with, when we created the municipal law, fulfilled the hopes we had attached to it. Historical developments can begin in Kaposvár in 2018, actually even this year. We named our program after István Németh, a famous mayor who has been Regent for a long time, which will result in unprecedented improvements in 2018. Just a few: given that our industrial parks are full, there is no place left to set up a business, so it is necessary to start with nearly HUF 500 million in 2018, this year the development of industrial parks and the development of new industrial parks. For the development of transport we spend 52 million forints on Kanizsai út, Jutai út, Vásártér út, and 474 million forints on bicycle roads and nodes. The employment pact is launched, which supports local cooperation with some HUF 18 million, this is a small part of a large programme. In the primary health care service, we develop medical clinics with dozens of HUF 274 million. We're developing kindergartens for 355 million, green city, building the southern block of the hospital, developing the historic city core of 1.6 billion. I stress that due to the shortness of time, I say only the 2018 part, not the expenditure before and after it. Brownfield development, Nostra design, nearly HUF 400 million in 2018 part. Environmental infrastructure development, i.e. precipitation water drainage above HUF 200 million. Sustainable tourism development: Deseda, Dorottya House, Szentjakab 1.6 billion HUF. Rehabilitation of ruined urban areas - I am referring to the Cherry Road segment - is HUF 95 million. For the expansion of basic social service infrastructure, HUF 107 million. Overall, it can be said that out of the more than 12 billion regional and municipal operational programmes, HUF 7.5 billion falls by 2018, which is an amazingly large number in the life of a city, and we have not yet talked about the programme of modern cities, which is economic, cultural, social life, health, well-being, physical activity development and, as appropriate, infrastructure development, so they start together. I am very pleased to report to this House that the renovation of the Csiky Gergely Theatre - a very big debt and long-awaited - has started - only the money for 2018 is more than HUF 5 billion. We started the construction of the new sports hall in the last few days, and only in 2018 we spend 2.5 billion on it. The construction of the 50-metre swimming pool will soon begin, about 2 billion, affecting 2018, Deseda Camping with HUF 818 million, or the renovation of the former archives. Overall, it can be said that the large framework of the.Modern Cities programme will be around HUF 10 billion by 2018, and this will add to the municipal operational programme, which together will amount to HUF 18 billion. In the speech of a budget law, it is unmissible that the government decided from HUF 96 billion on the 67th route, which connects Kaposvár to the M7 motorway, which was now essential for the city to start. The city's own revenues have also increased year after year since the change of government. In practice, almost every year, the city plans its own revenues, since it does not hope that it will be enough or dare not to plan the larger number, and yet by the end of the year often hundreds of millions more revenue will be realised. The continuous increase in the local business tax is a clear and evident proof that the local economy is growing in Kaposvár, which is also a huge pleasure. Overall, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the budgetary figures of the municipality of Kaposvár, the year 2018 is with great hopes, given that both state aid and development resources and own revenue show an increasing trend, so that our prosperity and everyone can make one move forward, this budget is an excellent guarantee, which is why I am asking this House to support the draft budget for 2018. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-72	Thank you very much. The last representatives of the multi-day debate will take place if the situation does not change - [[For signal:]] But since we are sitting in the Hungarian Parliament, by the time I said that sentence, the situation has changed. So first I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State! Indeed, we are going through an important stage in a long debate, so allow me, given the shortness of time, a little taxatically, to highlight a few points that, in our view, represent the main risks of public finances over the years 2017-18. The first is that budget law revenue estimates are optimistic and, at the same time, excessive spending, even in relation to elections, can also cause problems in the course of the next year's budget. The second is that the expected slower GDP growth will worsen the GDP-related indicators and, in particular, will lead to lower levels of wage and consumption revenue. The third is that in the 2018 budget, the need to replace one-off revenues of around HUF 400 billion in 2016-17 is also reflected in the planned absence of a central subsystem of more than 3 per cent. Then, the accelerated drawdown of EU funds could impair the effectiveness of implementation and radically reduce the margin for the post-election period. In the development goals, the importance of prestige and lobbying interests also seems to undermine the potential for future development. Furthermore, the main problem is that the high tide of EU subsidies is not spent by the government on the foundation of later years, but on the contrary, the elections are even more costly for the future. Moreover, it is really only taxative: the transparency of budgetary processes has not changed this year; the early adoption of the budget, which is completely contrary to international examples, does not increase predictability, as the government is constantly using the instrument of amending the budget. [[12.10]] This is also the case with regard to the 2017 budget. Moreover, these changes can be seen as significant compared to the budget figures. The main problems of the tax system have existed since 2010, and the European Union has also drawn attention to this in its report. They will also remain unchanged in the budget for the next period. That is why we are saying and that is why we are describing this budget as an election budget, despite the fact that government actors and the majority of governors are constantly disproved. But if you look at the trends, you can certainly see that this is an election budget. The other is that this is also a budget of injustice, which we label for a reason, we call it that. After all, if we look at the expenditure side of the budget, the government spends less on welfare expenditure in proportion to GDP or plans to spend less in the following year, and this is certainly not a good thing. As has been said in many comments, the income differences between the top 10 and the lower 10 percent are now eight times higher. This may have been the case in a year or two after the change of regime, then there was such a high difference between the 10% most paid and the least well-earned. In addition, as many of my colleagues, LMP colleagues, have said today, about one third of Hungarian families live below the minimum living standards. That is why we say that the budget should be drawn up in such a way that it is distributed equally among the members of society, not only in the interests of the privileged few, but not only in the interests of the better. Under equality, we mean that those who need more help, who need less existential status, should be given greater support and help. This is true of many other issues, starting from social policy. That's why we're saying this is an unfair budget. If a budget is unfair, it cannot achieve its objective in any way, even if, where appropriate, it contains measures favourable to one constituency. The budget is always for the country, the nation, not just one constituency. For this reason, the Socialist Group will not support this budget. While Secretary General Fó Nagy said earlier that this is such a normal thing, I think he said, I quote literally: the opposition is discrediting the budget. I wouldn't call it dissing, Mr. Secretary. We simply think differently about certain professional issues, social trends or about Hungarian society itself. I think that's okay, we're probably in another party because we believe in other social policies, other education policies, other economic policies or other health policies. Indeed, as Minister of State Banai once said, and I put it that way, we will leave to the voters which policy is considered to be more salutary from the point of view of Hungary. In addition, I would like to draw attention to one more feature in which the government will certainly have to change. And that's corruption. Earlier, Member Becsó of the county of Nógrád, Salgótarján, spoke about the fact that corruption had reached the end of the previous period. I have to say, now they're not even getting their noses out of corruption with a hose. So it is certain that this must be changed by the government, because voters and economic operators speak of nothing but unpredictableness, terrorism and enormous corruption in the economy as well. We therefore need to call on you to do something about corruption over and over again. It is not right for the benefit of this budget to be the benefit of their own families within the privileged few. You always say it's a family-friendly government. It's true that it's a family-friendly government. That is why we call this budget not only an election budget, but, as I have just mentioned, it is also an unfair budget and a budget of corruption. For this reason, as it is an election budget, a budget of injustice and corruption, the MSZP fraction will not support it this year either. We're hoping this budget is the last thing you've planned. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-19-74	Thank you very much. Attila Tilki, Member Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think, listening to the comments of the socialist Members, that they are not credible. When you talk about whether the current budget is unfair, the opposite of unjust is just, I ask you if it was fair in terms of the budgets you have made during your eight-year term, that only one person from a family could work on a community service program, because we mayors know exactly that was the rule. Was it fair that there were areas where people couldn't get an ambulance? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because it is now available, right?]] There was such an area in my own constituency. We built two rescue stations. You have failed to do so. Was it fair that railway lines were closed in the region of the poorest layers on the basis of your budget? The railway was closed between the White Gorge and Noise. We've restored it. It was fair that small settlements were destroyed, and the government had to consolidate small settlements and towns in order for the municipalities to function normally. So if you're talking about this budget being unfair, we can use examples and concrete examples to refuse to tell the truth. It's untrue, as they put it. I remember when they said that on the new M3 section, where the county highway sticker was introduced, people didn't go. I go there every day. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I think of Bango. My dear fellow Member, take a look at how many cars there are. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-19-76	And I'm reminded that the group's time frame has expired. Thank you very much for your understanding, Congressman. No doubt you've thought of something better than me. Dear Parliament, Now, since the time frame of the fractions has run out, or the faction at the disposal of the time frame is not represented, so... [[On Dr. Csaba Gyüre's signal:]] Without a doubt, I can see the warning from my better fellow Members that they have four seconds. If you want to take advantage of it, the house rules will give you an opportunity, and I will ask you to do so. [[On the signal of György Szilágyi and Dr. Csaba Gyüre:]] No. Then I am right that there is no more speeches, but it is my duty to ask. They indicate that there is no, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Secretary of State of Banai, if he wishes to reflect. I suppose so. [[Peter Benő Banai: Yes.]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After a long debate, for two and a half days, the Honourable Parliament discussed next year's draft budget law. I'm hoping some of the misunderstandings may have been cleared up. I thank you for the supporting comments, I thank you for the critical comments, and I hope that you have received the exact rebuttal of the critical comments, who raised these comments. Each draft budget law and its related changes in tax rules are one of the most important elements of the economic policy of the given government. We see from the government's side that the economic policy that has been implemented in recent years, based on the decisions of the government and Parliament since 2010, is fundamentally successful. Success can be measured by restoring budgetary stability. After nine years, we have been out of the excessive deficit procedure, and today there is no question whether the country can keep the deficit below 3 percent, but beyond that, I think success can be measured in terms of economic development or in terms of the number of people employed, in terms of unemployment. The results so far are also supported by the data on GDP growth in the first quarter of 2017 recently published, and I think that the Hungarian economy has expanded by 4.1 percent in the first quarter of 2017. This is a good basis for calculating economic growth of around 4 percent this year and more than 4 percent next year. In addition, by the end of the year, the Commission considers that the unemployment rate is the third of the EU Member States to be the lowest, 4.1 percent. These are the fundamentals that, I think, show the success of government economic policy, and the continuation of this economic policy is reflected in next year's draft budget law. [[12.20]] Economic policy priorities are therefore a further expansion of employment primarily in the competition sector, continuing the pace of wage increases so far in 2018, and, as appropriate, in order to achieve this, the substantial expansion of the economy, while keeping the deficit low and reducing public debt. If we translate these economic policy priorities into the main objectives of the draft budget law, its main values, then I think we can safely say that this is the budget for those living in work next year. If I have to highlight three priorities, then the budget focuses on work, recognition of work, support for families and preservation of security. To work, as next year we expect a substantial increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, which will also result in a substantial increase in the competitive sector in the case of additional categories of wages. We are counting on real wages to increase, and we are counting on a substantial increase in wages in many areas of the public sector. We calculate by strengthening families in 2018, as the total amount of support for families can reach 4.7 percent of GDP next year, in excess of HUF 1900 billion. There are also concrete measures to consider, for example, that the tax relief for families with two children will be increased, or if we think that all the family tax incentives will cost more than HUF 300 billion. I think that in the last two and a half days, we have been able to clearly disprove the comments, the opinions that this family support system is only favourable to the better. Let me repeat: if the combined gross income of the two earners is around 309,000 HUF, then the family discount is fully available for three children. Today's average Hungarian earnings are HUF 274 300 based on the latest statistics of KSH, based on January-February 2017 data. That's the average salary. So in a family, if the income of two earners per person is substantially lower than the average income, they can still make maximum use of the family discount. I think that this series of family policy measures, this very significant family support system, measured by a European comparison, needed to be able to talk about today that the fertility rate has improved substantially: 1.49 percent based on the latest data. This is not enough, of course, but we need to see the trend and trust that this trend will continue and we need to think about what else we can do to increase this indicator. Finally, with work and family, let me highlight safety. I think it is essential today to protect the Hungarian and Schengen borders, it is essential that Hungary is not a gateway, because if we are talking about the expansion of the economy, the safety of jobs, the safety of families, then it is not possible to stress enough that there are no events in Hungary that have unfortunately occurred in many countries in the western part of Europe. Work, family, security. The budget of people living from work is the expanding economy, and greater employment allows us to count on additional expenditure in a number of areas, practically all areas of public finances. I trust that in the last two and a half days, we have actually been able to disprove the fact that there would be a withdrawal of funds in several areas, see health or education. I must stress once again that the amount of support for these areas, such as the areas of health, education or pensions or for Hungarians across borders, as Mr Attila Tilki pointed out, has increased again, or the support for nationalities living within the borders. If I mention the latter two items, I can also say that the annual budgets have never included such grants. Neither with regard to the support of Hungarians across the border expressing the unity of the nation, nor with regard to the appreciation of nationalities living within the borders of Trianon and the importance of their role. There's been a lot of talk about retirement. I also mentioned that the amounts are increasing. I must confirm that, in addition to preserving the real value of pensions, which has increased by about 10 percent over the last six years, we are counting on the amount of the pension premium in both this year and next year's draft budget law before this House, as the expansion of the economy will exceed 3.5 percent. So we are talking about spending on virtually all areas. What is it that's shrinking? Perhaps there was less talk about it: public interest expenditure, for example. And I think that this also includes the emphasis on responsible farming. The government's interest expenditure is substantially reduced to below 3 per cent, and according to the EU methodology, net interest expenditure is reduced by 0.3 tenths in proportion to GDP, from 2.9 per cent this year to 2.6 per cent. Everyone should be reminded that a few years ago this was above 4 percent of GDP. This means that Hungary saved hundreds of billions of forints on interest expenditure, hundreds of billions of forints were saved by Hungarian taxpayers. Yes, this predictability, this stability, was needed to save what we could save on interest expenditure, which could be reversed, for example, to raise wages in the health sector or to raise wages in the education sector. In this respect, it is therefore essential to maintain the reduction of public debt and disciplined public finances in 2018. I also highlight this in the light of the fact that the proposals for amendments by its representatives, by individual representatives, have been tabled, and I see proposals for amendments that would significantly soften this budget management, this budget, where all areas, practically all areas, count on extra expenditure. If we soften up the budget, it will lead us to what we experienced once after 2002, when the numbers weren't right. Allow me, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, to quote you. You said we were just trying to get the numbers right, and we couldn't see the man. [[Anita Beringes: For you never see man.]] Congresswoman, you know exactly where the numbers were going when they weren't right. Do not make me repeat how the numbers have not been right in the last decade, and this has led to your proposal to reduce wages in the public sector or to reduce pensions before 2010. I claim that we are now in an economic policy situation where there is more resources available in different areas, according to the State Audit Office of Hungary, independent of the government, the Council of Budgets and national and international analysts, independent of the government, which means that we can also maintain the stability of the budget. On the basis of this environment, therefore, I think that, after discussing later any changes to the budget, if the honourable Parliament retains the main directions of the proposed budget law, then we can expect that the budget for 2018 will indeed be the budget for the people of work. Indeed, this budget will be for further strengthening of families next year, and, as I said, we can also preserve longer-term stability. With these thoughts, I propose to the Honourable Parliament that the amendments be discussed later and then adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-19-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Next week, the Committees will discuss the amendments tabled. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest will follow until closure. Presentation submitted by MEPs Lajos Kósa, Sándor Czomba, Béla Turi-Kovács Fidesz and Mr Péter Harrach, leader of the KDNP faction T/155558. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur on the agenda, Congressman Lajos Kósa, head of the Fidesz faction, please. [[12.30]]
u2017-05-19-79	Mr. President. Dear House, Parliament is now discussing an amendment amending the cooperative law and creating a completely new type of cooperative. A completely new type of cooperative is because only persons who receive pension benefits can be members of this type of cooperative, i.e. pensioners. We want to give them an opportunity; there is no obligation, there is an opportunity, if Parliament accepts it. What's this about? In the previous employment policy, I can safely say, there are some very specific forms of employment that are typical of Hungary, nowhere else in the European Union, and this is the operation of student associations and the involvement of student associations in the work. In the example of this model, we were encouraged to think of this opportunity for pensioners, fully imitating student cooperative operations. Both legal relationships, if you are a student or a pensioner, are special relationships, since you are otherwise insured for your fundamental rights, students are insured as students, pensioners are insured as pensioners. Therefore, either in student associations or in pensioners' cooperatives, with personal contributions - strictly only cooperative members - they can participate in the work undertaken by the cooperative without having to pay their insurance costs in relation to their employment to the employer. Only what these people are looking for with their personal contributions is subject to tax. It is quite obvious that this is an atypical form of employment. Basically, a series of jobs, a number of jobs cannot be filled with work or a job in a pensioner-cooperative, as it is quite clear that while employment under the Labour Code is an obligation, the employer has an obligation to work and the employee has an obligation to work, and this is not the case here. This is a very loose form, very well-functioning in the case of student associations. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes!]] We have seen that this form of employment has been fully restored in the past period, starting in 2010. The European Union has launched infringement proceedings against Hungary because the student cooperatives were previously managed in accordance with the employment rules under the Labour Code, and it is not suitable for managing the form of student cooperatives. We transferred it to the cooperative, eliminated the abuses related to it, introduced reverse VAT for atypical forms of employment, temporary employment and student associations. By the way, we have brought some HUF 35 billion in additional VAT revenue to the budget, because with this, VAT abusers have been forced out of the market. We introduced the minimum employment pay for students there as a quasi-minimum wage. The whole system has been put in order by, on the basis of that experience, I can safely say that we can begin to develop a form of pensioner-cooperative. We've done surveys. Based on a representative research, 40 percent of pensioners, i.e. 40 percent of 2.7 million people, said so without knowing exactly what the form of cooperative was. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes!]] He said that he would be very happy to join, of course, because he is interested in it, because there are a lot of pensioners who are already reluctant to be in the workplace under the Labour Code, with 8 hours a day, and he would take advantage of the possibility that he has a pension, it would not be affected by any change, but otherwise, in his time, or as long as his health is his energy, his schedule allows him to go to work every day, a day or two, an hour or two, when his time is due. And such an opportunity would be explicitly sought by pensioners, at least 40 percent of them said so. Potential employers have also said that I can refer here, for example, to the statement of the head of the Coop network operating the cooperative shop network, or I can safely state the statements of VOSZ Vice-President Ferenc Dávid that this is a very good opportunity. In certain specific areas where there is a shortage of labour, this flexible form of employment can work and provides a very good opportunity for people who are already receiving pension benefits, but still have the force to participate in employment. How would this form work? I would like to give some examples in this regard, because there have been a number of misunderstandings that I have seen with regard to the statements concerning the functioning of the pensioner cooperative and this form of employment. A pensioner's cooperative will be established, and the members will enter with the contribution provided for in the statutes. That's 500 forints, no more. In student associations, the main rule is 1,000 forints, which, you should know, you get back when you quit. But it could be 500 forints, ad absurdum could be 100 forints, so it's not a question of money. He enters, they form a retirement union, ten people are the minimum number, but let's say 50 people come together, and they say we've established a retirement union. The pensioner's co-operative is contracted to do some work with an employer. It's basically a contract of contract, so it's not a contract of employment. A cooperative business network says that with this retirement cooperative, I sign up for 50 hours of commercial work per week in a given settlement, Kisújszállás, so I sign up 50 hours with the pensioner's association. The pensioner cooperative shall ensure the conditions. So this means that he will appoint the members, just the members of the pensioners' union, that they will, what I know, 15 of them will complete these 50 hours of business in the shop. They're handing out when they're going. It's extremely flexible. Someone's on the schedule, but he told me I'm sorry, the grandkids are here, and I have to go to the doctor, whatever I have to do, and I can't go to work Tuesdays from 10:00 to 12:00, but I'm sending the other co-operative member, who meets all the conditions, all the safety regulations, and he's going in instead. From this, the employer, who signed the contract, the shopkeeper, only senses that someone he knows is coming, because their names are down to who can go there, and from 10 to just one phone call, that now she won't go to Mrs. Kovács, but Uncle Béla, and she will go in. But, by the way, they're handing out this employment themselves. This is particularly good, by the way, that, for example, in commercial units, it is obvious that the turnover of shops is uneven. There are times when a minimum of staff is sufficient. And who didn't see the situation where rush hour is on the other hand, and you have to line up at the cashier for a longer time, because if you hire a regular employee, you can't, let's say, every other day for two hours in the rush hour. So you're gonna get yourself a job like this. This is extremely flexible. The pensioner you're looking for is his, by the way. Of course, make no mistake, this is basically a cash opportunity. All we have written in the law is that if the cooperative has financial results, it can be paid to members tax-free and in the form of different options; otherwise, in money, it will only be taxed again. It's a chance again. All in all, this is a very, very flexible form. Of course, we don't know if it'll work or not. But what we do know is that in the case of student associations, 135,000 students work in the country, and together they work roughly HUF 22 billion a year, so much with their own contribution. If the cooperative employs an outsider, who is not a cooperative member, for this type of work, then, of course, it falls from all social security benefits and tax incentives. Of course, we have given you the opportunity that if the pensioner cooperative can't solve it, you can hire a member of a cooperative for up to 10 percent of your membership who is not insured, so you're not retired, but you don't have any benefits, because you're not retired. [[12.40]] Student associations also have this opportunity, and practical experience shows that the cooperative's own books, HR activities and other backoffice activities are actually provided by students, so this system works well, it is very rare when these cooperatives are employed with employment under the Labour Code. I think that if the 2.7 million pensioners indicated that they would like to take advantage of this opportunity - this opportunity has been created once since 2010, we have fought through these debates with the European Union, this issue has come to a standstill, and it has also been resolved that the European Union has demanded that students should be given leave in the case of student associations, which is difficult to interpret in the case of student rights, and that it is also extremely difficult for the pensioner to be free, because it is a completely different relationship, but we have been able to settle these issues - I urge everyone to look at such an opportunity. According to our calculations, if roughly 100,000 pensioners can be involved in such an option, they can do roughly 20,000 people's work in the form of employment under the Labour Code. Of course, that depends on how active they are. I'll just give you one number: last year, Tesco stores wanted to sign three million working hours from student associations, and the student associations said that they couldn't sign more than two million, because there are simply no students. Therefore, the fact that the market has this type of demand is clear as day. In particular, seasonal activities are preferred to use this flexible form of employment for those who provide such services, tourism, catering, commerce and tourism are typically such sectors. I would ask everyone to consider launching this opportunity. There really isn't a risk involved. This certainly does not involve budget expenditure, it can bring a little revenue, it is insignificant anyway, so that is not why we are doing it, and it is clear that we do not have to look at this area from the point of view of how this institution affects the development of the Hungarian labour market, because it is quite obvious that nobody is thinking about, by any means, that any kind of labour problem should now be solved by pensioners. We would like to offer the pensioners an opportunity, and we would like pensioners to be able to work under such flexible conditions, if they are in a good mood, which is good for everyone; there are also a number of benefits for the pensioner if we open this type of option. For example, in the case of students, many co-operative members join the cooperative to live a social life there, not necessarily because they want to work. It takes a lot of training for such people to learn different jobs, there's a lot of cooperative community life in student cooperatives and cooperatives. If we open this opportunity for pensioners, it will benefit everyone in my view, and I would like to ask for the support of this House so that, as far as we know, the 2.7 million pensioners, who are a huge resource and opportunity for society as a whole, are given another opportunity to work if they feel like it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-19-80	Thank you. I'm going to ask you on behalf of the government, if you'd like to speak now, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Peter Benő Banai nodds.]] Here you go.
u2017-05-19-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that the proposal is logically linked to the previous topic, the budget, the economic policy directions, and it is a proposal that can create a favourable situation for everyone. It can create a favourable situation for the pensioners concerned, because, as has been said, it is possible to work flexibly, and I think that it can create a favourable situation for businesses, companies that display labour demand on the market, i.e. looking for labour. On the basis of these considerations, the proposal submitted is supported by the government, I must add, a formal government post, a formal government decision has not yet been taken, but we definitely consider the directions set out by the Group leader and which are included in the proposal to be supported. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Tamás Sneider wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President Tamás Sneider should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Put your hands in the air, please. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority has accepted my motion. And now we're going to hear the keynote speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am in the easy position that Mr Kósa, Group Leader, has told me in full detail and has revealed the substance of the motion. However, I would like to draw attention to a few things myself, first and foremost to the immediate afterlife of the proposal. This afterlife inside me, I must say, has caused a traumatic feeling. If there's a fair presentation, that's it. Those who have said their objections here in advance probably have not read the purpose of the legislation that has been presented:, the pensioner cooperative in the public interest, hereinafter referred to as the pensioner's cooperative, is intended to ensure employment and labour market reactivation for its members and the elderly who are still active, in order to deliver the knowledge, professional and life experience they have accumulated for the next generations, thereby giving effect to the public interest. Now, who could draw the negative conclusions from this, I must say that he must be a man of great talent. Compared to this, such statements appeared: leave pensioners alone, do not have to work them; the other party, directly from a highly supported party, is a stupid bill; then there is an opinion that simply talks about how they want to bring pensioners into a cooperative. I confess that nothing in domestic public life surprises me anymore, but these kind of manifestations suggest that some people probably say that they do not understand the content, but in particular the essence of it. In the case at hand, I think that two aspects must be taken into account. One: the fact that the relationship between active workers and pensioners developed in Hungary. I have a lot of statistical numbers at my disposal, but I would like to highlight one: in 1920, when Hungary had fewer than 8 million inhabitants in the same area, it was 9 percent that had a pension age and stock. Today the same is approaching 20 percent in Hungary. So here we are talking about a population that is now a vital part of the population within the country, and how the future of the country will develop, to which I believe not only the active, pensioners would like to add all that they have: knowledge, diligence and naturally work. In the particular situation, I have to say that what is seen in this proposal is that the authors have sought to achieve the success of this proposal in such a way as to provide positive opportunities on the side of pensioners, but also - and this should be highlighted - positive opportunities on the side of employers. The two must appear together. [[12.50]] If the two do not appear together, then there will be a pensioner who would like to work in a cooperative, but there may not be someone who will. If the two are together, and this is one of the virtues of this proposal, balanced together, then I believe that there will be someone who wants to work and who will apply it. There is one mistake I would like to make, and I may already have quite a practice in this by my age. It is a mistake to think that anyone who reaches a certain age would like to play chess only at Ferenc Square from this age onwards, and in addition to the well-deserved rest and wait for the passing of time to come. This is a mistake. In this particular situation, it is also an active and real life that is already beyond a certain age. And it must also be made clear that the age group that is over 65 can be highly vulnerable or vulnerable to employers. I believe that this protection can be largely ensured by a cooperative to establish relations between equals that are necessary for working relations. And I'd like to eliminate another very, very rude mistake. There is still a lively view, I have to say, that is a stupid, silly view, which identifies collaborators with all cooperatives. I must say that this is a nonsense - and I put it mildly then - which still lives in part of society. I believe that alliance is an opportunity that must not only be economically, but also socially, and must be exploited. That's what this law is all about. This proposal is about bringing social opportunities and interests into line with and apply here, where appropriate. I would like to point out one more important element. I am also convinced, and I am pleased that it is included in the proposal, that this can only be successful if we provide further assistance in this matter. It must be difficult to start, so you need help when you start. It may be difficult to regulate and maintain operating procedures in themselves beyond departure, so help will also need to be provided. These are not the duties of the law, but opportunities and necessity beyond the law. Those who, together with me, want to play such a big role as civil society organisations can also play a role here in a good and positive way; it is also to promote that these cooperatives can really find their place and function. When this law is published, the state will do its best. Personally, I was also happy to play a part in the support because I hope that after all these years, the approach on the government side will also change a bit; the approach will change and we will look at cooperatives differently. We have excellent cooperatives that are still on the verge of saying, for example, the Ant Society. For a long, long time, he served the Hungarian economy for half a century. The possibility must also be provided there, and in this case cooperative opportunities will find their own place within society. Returning to this proposal, I am convinced that this will not go on one day to announce the law and the next to be a mass of cooperatives, but if we take the steps that are necessary for the start-up, then this motion can be successful, and I believe it will serve both of the goals of helping pensioners to have a fuller life, a safer life and, of course, the world of work. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-19-84	Thank you very much. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, lead speaker at MSZP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Once again, in a smoky dark room, they decide the fate of workers and those who want to work with no interest in the opinions of those affected. Unfortunately, the government proposal disguised as an individual MEP's motion creates more problems than it solves. The current bill seems to be a typical backdoor law, and it is likely that the government would like to reduce the expenditure of the pension fund. A highly qualified workforce, who could find a job on its own, must continue to pay the tax if it does not enter one of the forms of cooperatives. And the low-qualified workforce, which is likely to be a member of the cooperative, is pleased to be working tax-free, which is not fair. The proposal does not indicate the government's exact intention. It is a question of who can form the cooperative and which company will mediate the preferential labour force. The adoption of the bill will allow pensioners to be employed in the framework of temporary agency work, which means that they may be more vulnerable and even be paid in a food voucher. The question arises as to how fair and morally acceptable it is to receive a meal ticket or voucher as a consideration for the work of an already vulnerable pensioner. A number of bad examples can be set recently for the operation of social cooperatives as temporary workers. Here it is necessary to mention the recently initiated bill of the Ministry of National Economy, which aimed at abolishing and transforming a number of social cooperatives, as they developed to circumvent labour law and exploit the labour force of their members. Employers transferred their own workers to social cooperatives to reduce their own labour costs by paying more favourable taxes and contributions. Apart from employees, in these cases everyone benefited, but just the employee did not. It was worth it to the employer because it left more money, it was worth it to the cooperative operators, because they had more money, but it wasn't worth it to temporary workers, because they had reduced their labour protection, their insurance and were even more vulnerable than before. But let us consider some examples of cooperative forms in recent times. How did these social cooperatives work? In September 2016, the European Union's proposal to encourage social enterprises was launched. This type of management also attracted the attention of the prosecutor's office. There has been a growing number of abuses and government cuts in social cooperative forms in recent times. I'd like to mention a few here. The bridge marked by Flórian Farkas is a social cooperative, where it is about an irregular spending of approximately HUF 1.5 billion. We've been at more than HUF 3 billion since then. The case concerning the Fidesz representative of Mengyi Roland, where the social cooperatives would have asked for 90 percent of the aid in return for the success of the tenders from hundreds of millions of HUF EU funds. And I would recommend to Lajos Kósa the First Hungarian Environmental Social Cooperative - known as Esos - which affected Szabolcs County, Hajdú-Bihar County and Szolnok County. There we talked about about HUF 5 billion. This cooperative form has been awarded a non-refundable grant of HUF 2.9 billion, and we can talk about making around 3,000 workers miserable. For more than a year, the government saw that these workers had to be compensated. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, watching Lajos Kósa, you could almost have believed that this government was only trying to do the right thing, he just wanted to get the pensioners back into the working world. However, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to who has forced groups to retire and has not given them a choice. It's like they don't remember a few years back, fellow Members. Who has created an economic environment that has to call pensioners back to work? Who has introduced social policy measures and economic policy measures that have caused our young people to flee the country, and a shortage of workers has emerged that people are no longer qualified? If we have to change a lightbulb, we're not gonna find a man there? [[Péter Harrach: Wrap it up!]] What are we talking about? It was you who created such a situation in this country! And now they're coming with this cooperative form! In recent years, we have seen only that you have destroyed well-functioning social cooperatives, hundreds of them in this country, and then have created social cooperatives with a fidesz interest, but in recent years it has all turned out that they have only been created to steal EU funds. [[13.00]] In this cooperative law, we see the same thing. And they didn't ask the retirement associations, the retirement union, anyone. We will then say in the following comments what they say, the pensioners themselves, what those involved say about this law. Why didn't you check with them in the first round? Just like the other day when Erik Bánki submitted an amendment to the Labour Code. Everyone inside Fidesen knew about it, but they didn't consult with the employees; then, after the scandal broke out, they withdrew the whole thing. I think it is a good example of this law, once again, that they are slylyly preparing some kind of withdrawal, and all I can say is that I give the floor to my fellow Member, Mr Heringes, that the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-19-86	Thank you very much. I apologise for the fact that the group indicated that two speakers presented their views as keynote speakers. So I will pass on the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, who will continue her speech as a speaker. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-87	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the meeting of the National Competitiveness Council in April, Mihály Varga announced and promised that the government would initiate an amendment to the labour rules for pensioners. Compared to this, we see on the table here today that it was not the government's initiative, but my fellow Members must have sat down pleasantly in a cafe on a Sunday afternoon, discussed it, and then wrote this bill. Thus, after sitting before us as a motion for a representative, there was obviously no need to consult with the pensioners' organisations, the pensioners' department of trade unions, nor to consult anyone, since this is a good part of the motion for representatives for you. They're gonna do anything they don't want to do in advance. Lajos Kósa said that 40 percent of 2.7 million pensioners support this form, but he himself admitted that they probably didn't know what was in this law. Because most of the organisations have read it, and that's why they criticize it, because you can see that while the term social cooperative used to be a positive sign, you have made it an indicator of exploitation in the past. We've managed to destroy the cooperative system, a well-functioning cooperative system, the school cooperatives for the past year, throw the students into a completely exploited position, since you've taken these students out of the labor code. [[Lajos Kósa: What are you talking about?]] Now they're turning to pensioners. My fellow Member, you can yell, but we are right. [[Lajos Kósa: I tell you, they asked for it.]] The question arises as to why the establishment of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest is even necessary. After all, no pension contributions or health insurance contributions are deducted from the earnings of members of cooperatives receiving old-age pensions. In this way, they are not entitled to their retirement allowance, nor to increase their pension by 0.5 per cent per year. Their vulnerability to the labour market increases significantly. They are also employed in the framework of a temporary agency, which is not known for keeping the interests of the temporary agency in mind, and their situation is also deteriorating in this respect. The members of the cooperative shall pay a financial contribution when they are established or when they enter. The government could have stated that the employment of all pensioners is tax-free and free of charge for the employer, so that all potential pensioners could receive state aid, not only privileged cooperatives. In fact, employers would be encouraged to hire active elderly people. But that's not your goal, is it? It's about creating an organization for your buddies, and we'll see who it is that's going to be creating these cooperatives, creating another market, another opportunity. Because this is exactly the typical case where there is no fundamental need for this cooperative if there are laws under which pensioners can be employed normally and we support employers in making it easier for them to employ pensioners. We've been feeling like Lajos Kósa's been digging through our heads in a lot of cases. After all, he has already responded to what we wanted to raise, and what is true is that this proposal will have a distorting effect on the labour market. What will happen is what Lajos Kósa said: pensioners in Tesco, Coops and students working together in a school cooperative will work together in such a way that it will be better for these companies, it will be cheaper for them. By the way, it was you who also submitted that they would have to be employed at a minimum minimum wage, so that we can also achieve that they will be employed so much. The employer will cost much less, that's all right. But what's in it for pensioners? Why is it good to join this social cooperative, this retirement cooperative, when it doesn't make sense? There will be no added value. If there were laws that would help pensioners work, it would be a normal opportunity. This, on the table, is the first point of exploitation. You have tabled it to open the field, perhaps to individual Members or listed Members of Parliament who will no longer have a seat as individual representatives in the next Parliament, you do so, and you will now create the possibility, by law, of where to pay them properly. The Parliamentary Group of the MSZP will therefore not support this proposal on a principled basis. Neither pensioners' organisations nor trade unions see this bill as acceptable, but employers see it as workable with significant amendments. As a result, the government must withdraw this proposal if they have some good feeling; but unfortunately, we do not believe that there is. The government should stick to what was said at the National Competitiveness Council's inaugural meeting in early April to initiate changes to the labour rules applicable to pensioners. This does not mean that bad measures which adversely affect pensioners should be tabled in the form of individual motions. This step will make the work of a number of pensioners' organisations impossible by the government, the pensioners' organisations and departments of trade unions are in danger, and in extreme cases, the form of a cooperative may continue to function as a pensioner's department of the CF. It is unacceptable for pensioners to be employed in such a way as to pay for their work in exchange for money, either in a food voucher or in worse cases, which we already look at from you, and then perhaps only in cooked food. This is both humanly, morally and morally unacceptable. The employment of pensioners could have been facilitated or resolved by simpler means, without the creation of cooperatives, by allowing unpaid employment for pensioners, or by introducing more flexible retirement rules than at present. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, that we agree that there are many very experienced people among pensioners. That's why we felt very sad when the judges and prosecutors were forced to retire. From 70 to 62 they reduced their retirement age, 274 judges and prosecutors had to immediately leave active work and retire. I think their experience would be very necessary. In particular, these prosecutors and judges will be needed when they begin to be held accountable after a government change, and each of them who has committed a crime or who has brought more money home than they should have been, will be brought before the judges and prosecutors. Thank you very much. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2017-05-19-88	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP, Mr. Péter Harrach, is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-89	Mr President, Dear House, Mr President, you know that when an item was proven in the classic age, it was first the counter-opinions. Now I'm referring to one or two. Let me read, not so much of what has been said here, because it may not be worth it, but for example, the opinion of the vice-president of a union of trade unions, which says: "The union says no to this, saying that pensioners should be left alone, and should not be forced to work against their will." I think that if we look back on the measures on pensioners, I would be a little more restrained than the representatives of the MSZP. After all, they, who now promise to give back 13 months' pensions, have taken it away, changed the rules for setting pensions, that the initial pension has fallen significantly. It was two MSZP governments that raised the retirement age. [[13.10]] Shall I continue? But perhaps I could also say that there was only a period during the MSZP government when the real value of pensions was significantly reduced. Pensioners should be provided with a pension, but they should also be able to supplement this. And if I have already started with what this draft law gives me, then let me continue by granting tax exemptions, flexible working hours and carefree placements beyond the pension supplement, i.e. it would save the pensioner who wants to work, so it gives him an opportunity. It is not just any opportunity, it is a tried opportunity, because student associations and school associations are a well-tested opportunity, which is even appropriate to the EU's expectations. It is also true, it has been said several times that this is not a negative option for pensioners, but also for employers. Although we do not approach the question from the point of view of what this means to employers, because it is the employee that is important to us, it is worth mentioning the aspect that is mentioned in the law. When we talk about reducing labour shortages, we are primarily talking about the transfer and activation of the professional experience that is needed because a highly experienced age group has retired, taking with them the professional knowledge that is lacking today in this labour shortage situation. So it's not so much their job as to pass on experience, which is important. Several people have mentioned that there has been no preliminary survey and consultation. There's been research. Lajos Kósa was referring to this. I myself took part in two consultations, and the pensioners' organisations present gave their views. So, just because the union leader who said they wanted people to work against his will didn't involve him in a negotiation, well, it wasn't too bad. There is also a need to mention how the employment situation has developed in recent years. At a time when the employment level in 2010 was below 55 per cent, today it is above 67 per cent. When the unemployment rate was 11,3 per cent, it will soon reach 4.1 per cent. In this situation, the work of pensioners is necessary for them and for society. Allow me one more thought. The cooperative form has already been mentioned by Béla Turi-Kovács. I cannot in any way judge this form of employment as negatively as the congresswoman did before, because she proved it many decades ago not only in Hungary that it is a well-functioning form of employment. I could also mention the examples that the Member referred to. It is true, of course, that there was a period in Hungary when cooperatives were successfully discredited, of course, and then the members of the cooperative were in a vulnerable position, who were not real owners, as they would be members of this cooperative, but vulnerable people who lived in fear. Here, again, the members of the pensioners' cooperative will be given the opportunity as owners, as volunteers. To whom this brings to mind all suspicions and sanda intentions, I think it is not the reality, but its own inner world. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-19-90	Thank you. The lead speaker of Jobbik, Member Tamás Sneider, will be the vice-president of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, I have listened to what has been said so far, and I must tell you frankly, the substance of what I have to say has been virtually fully supported by the earlier expozee of the pro-government representatives, which is exactly what we were expecting. But what is it? That is what my speech will be about. First of all, what has already been said, of course, by the Socialist Party, the bill was clearly prepared by the government, because it is a very complicated bill, but yet it was bypassed by social consultation, it was submitted to Parliament by means of a proposal by its individual representatives, which is common to Parliament, and it is always necessary to think and to think of nothing other than that the debate is only formal, and that a minimum appearance of democratism should still be retained. Why didn't the idea of a public-interest, I repeat, pensioner-cooperative in the public interest come into real social consultation when it was in its name that it was in the public interest? Isn't it just because you're not sure it's completely public interest? In the absence of social consultation, this could not have been found out, since Mr Kósa said a company, and there are also 124 thousand companies in Hungary, which could have been earned or asked for an opinion otherwise. Obviously, we shouldn't have done it from everyone, but it could have been a little wider, apart from asking a company, that's the negotiation. Well, it is quite clear that civil society organisations of pensioners, trade unions, the majority of large employers, small entrepreneurs, leaders of education, health and other public institutions should have been addressed. They did not do so, so the possibility of this, or the opportunities that this law would offer for them, or the abuses that they would see in it, could not tell, so it remains for everyone - although not for us so much - actually a Bianko law. An indication of the public interest can easily serve a misleading purpose, as you can see. There is no apparent public interest in certain applications, but it is more likely that the initiative comes from international companies established here or large agri-food companies close to the government, which want to obtain a low-cost labour force by not paying contributions to such employees. The wage to be paid will be low even compared to the Hungarian wage level; we could also say that the pensioners should be happy that they are getting a job, and that there will be no public workers who will be able to introduce this law on an official basis, since they agree on the wage with pensioners' associations of general interest, not with those who will go there. That then the cooperative that we will see how it works, what it will agree on, is not likely to depend on pensioners. If they are able to involve relatively more pensioners, they can easily put the current wage level under pressure, saying that they do not like it, it is not appropriate to hire other, more expensive workers. At this point, of course, it comes to mind that perhaps the 600,000 Hungarians who went out because of the low wages should be lured home. In addition to the issue of public interest pensioners, there is a much more general social, political and economic impact that has also not been discussed in society, and that is what has already been discussed here, and that is the question of the cooperative itself. It is not obvious at all whether the pensioner cooperative in the public interest is indeed a cooperative. There's a good chance that the cooperative will be just a fake cooperative, just to make it look like a cooperative system. [[13.20]] The bill does not say anything about the way in which the association is organised, about the basic rules that are in the best interests of the members. This is a fundamental issue in a cooperative system. [[Lajos Kósa: Members decide!]] The bill is about how pensioners' cooperatives of general interest and their members are exempt from the public burden of their wages. Thus, the pensioner cooperative of general interest is simply a formal framework for exempting the pensioner from taxes and contributions, i.e. it is not a genuine cooperative. It is very important to state this in the current bill. So, in itself, it would not be a problem with the cooperative if it were indeed a cooperative law, which is now in front of us. The definition of "cooperative" is also a voluntary economic association in which members engage in economic activities with joint capital, with joint responsibility, and share the result together. This is the accepted wording of the cooperative. The alliance, obviously, as I said before, is not from the devil, and even Jobbik can very much support any real alliance of this kind, as Europe has matured this system, at least in Western Europe, in centuries, but it is quite clear that it is primarily about the efficiency of the various entrepreneurs and producers who enter a cooperative. This Western European model, let us say, the European model, is obviously far from that, has almost nothing to do with the current law on pensioners' cooperatives before us. So we are now discussing a draft law in which the essential characteristics of alliance should prevail. For example, voluntary, open membership, cooperative democratism, a member-one vote, a confederation system with limited capital, and all with personal involvement. In addition, local, national and even international cooperation should be established. In a pensioner's cooperative of general interest, these requirements could apply if they were in it, but they are not in it, but it is simply incomprehensible that if you want to do this in a system you call a cooperative system, why job agencies are not good for this, or why genuine trade unions that could do this without having to change legislation in 13 laws or even in one law. Why isn't it their job? Why didn't you think of that? Well, if there's no social consultation, of course, then it's no wonder that anyone doesn't think of it, or anyone who finds it out doesn't think of it. So this proposal in this form is as far away from the cooperative movement, the real alliance as Mako is from Jerusalem. Ladies and gentlemen, Contrary to all this, the most likely scenario is that lucky riders set up bianko cooperatives quickly, offering entry to drain the incomes of pensioners. But let's look at one or two more professional questions about this bill. For example, who is responsible for the work, the cooperative or its member? We're not getting an answer. According to the bill, the pensioners' cooperative in the public interest is wearing it because the undertaking, under Act C of 2000, is therefore carrying out business on its own behalf and at its own risk, for profit and for property acquisition, for consideration. What's going to happen? The 90 percent pensioner membership bears the risk of one of its members' activities. In other words, if someone does a million-dollar damage, they pay the retirement part of the cooperative membership, and everyone pays your small hundred thousand forints, if any, for a serious damage from their 60 thousand forints pension. But let's keep looking. How is it that if you hire industrialists in the ranks of your members, or maintainers, repairers, painters, mechanics, builders who have nothing to do with each other, what kind of cooperative system can be created in such a case, for example? How, for example, can you take a risk with a thousand HUF/member capital? Here again, I refer to the possibility of paying pensioners who have entered such a cooperative or have been forced to pay for any huge damage. In this case, it is clear that when you were thinking about this cooperative solution - and that was exactly what was said from the mouth of Mr Lajos Kósa - you were thinking of the simplest working phases, the assistant work, the area where wages are still low, from which hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people migrated from Hungary. After all, you have set such an example in connection with food trafficking. Clearly, it's about the most easy work to train. About what? Mostly agricultural work, mostly simply shelving the lowest payment category or other things. Ladies and gentlemen, Retirements to whom such work will be offered in a cooperative system do not deserve this. This is not what they deserve, but what they deserve is the pension of 60,000 forints that after 40 years of employment, after 80 thousand forints as a health care worker, as a nurse, and I could list them as a social worker, i.e. death or hunger pension, to put it this way, to raise it. These pensioners don't deserve it, because they're the only ones that this law is about, it's very clear to all of us anyway, it doesn't deserve the pensioners of 60-70-80 thousand forints who worked 40 years to send them back after 40 years of employment for a little charity to live while you can, but a pension increase, a decent, adequate pension increase. It has already been said here, by the Socialist Party, that we are also standing in front of the bill for no reason, because it was you who, five years ago, indeed, prohibited public service workers after reaching the retirement age to continue working in their profession and have been forced to retire. In addition, I must add that, with great indignation, this law did not apply to the Members of Parliament alone. [[Péter Harrach: That's not true, is it?]] I have had such a bill tabled, and we have spoken to Congressman Péter Harrach on this committee, and I know that it is not the real solution, because since then I have also submitted a next bill, not even included in a series of articles to abolish this legislative pass, please, and if you really want to bring the elderly, the qualified, the knowledge-based ones back to the world of work, because that is not what it is about, as I said, the simplest working phases, then please put on the agenda the bill that I have submitted, after I have already had a legislative proposal before. Cancel the fact that public service workers can no longer work in their fields of work. This law has become completely redundant. You introduced another restriction, let's not forget it. The legal restriction that allows women who can retire after 40 years of employment, if they re-work, to be subject to an action restriction. I mean, if I want to forint it, if one of them finds more than 130 thousand forints of earnings on the market, it won't go to work, only up to 130 thousand forints, because he works for free for the money above it, because his pension will be taken away, he won't be paid if he receives such a salary. Eliminate the meaningless legislation, and then you can bring back to the world of work the part of the retirement society that wants or has the opportunity to work again! I have to add that, of course, this applies not only to women, but also to those who retired with a job relationship, and also to those who are on the service allowance, as well as to those who do not have the opportunity to work above certain limits, or to work for them, but only for free in the market. [[13.30]] Well, since pensioners are going to have a negative or even likely to have a paper on it, it is illegal - a number of laws have been affected by you, because the Strasbourg court has already taken a judgment decision on this law in the first instance, so it is probably necessary to change it anyway, unless you want to pay many billion forints from the budget, which is not yet planned, I believe, Mr Secretary of State. So Jobbik is proposing the abolition of this law, and we simply wish that this bill not be put into effect, so it cannot be supported. Finally, if you decide to vote, then I can only recommend one thing to the honoured homeboys: let the retired pro-government parishioners form it first. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the pensioners' association of Members of Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-19-92	The lead speaker of the LMP, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was there at the meeting of the Economic Commission when it came to the series of articles to see whether or not this law should be included in the series of articles. Before that, I received a letter from a pensioner-interest organisation who had already seen the content of this individual motion, and they asked us practically to convey that this bill should not be put on the agenda by Parliament in this way. I did not go into the details at the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I strongly asked that this bill be withdrawn by the Members who submitted it, and returned only after consulting the various professional representatives, the representatives of pensioners, and then, in agreement with them, return a proposal to Parliament. But of course, the answer was no. In addition, it was said there that, yes, we know that professional representations dealt with this bill on the weekend, and we have heard that... - this is the one we have heard about, and it is obviously not a negotiation. So a bill that affects more than 2 million people in some way cannot be brought in as a motion for individual representatives of some Members, even if the government was behind it, because if the government was behind it, it would have been the duty of the government to have different discussions before it. It's not two people, it affects over two million people! [[Lajos Kósa: 2.7!]] [[Lajos Kósa: 2.7!]] What? (Lajos Kósa: 2.7!) So that's over 2 million, almost 3 million. [[Lajos Kósa: It's nice to know!]] Good, if it's 2.7 million, it's almost 3 million, it's a very, very serious item, almost a third of the population. [[Lajos Kósa: A quarter!]] We believe that if the government really wanted to promote the employment of pensioners and to create a new form of cooperative in order to do so, it would not have been hiding behind an individual motion, but one of the ministers would have even taken this proposal in its name. Therefore, do not be surprised if we do not assume that you were guided by this unselfish intent on this bill; there is a reason why we think that there is something else behind it. According to the proposal, I very much do not want to detail, of course, this form of pensioner cooperative in the public interest, which is supposed to be aimed at improving the active employment, labour market reactivation of older people and the financial situation of pensioners. Access to pensioners' cooperatives, as we have seen in the draft, would be a condition for financial contributions. These pensioners' cooperatives would then receive different benefits: they would not have to pay contributions or the cooperative would be exempt from social contribution tax, in exchange for the work they promise benefits in kind, food or vouchers, to pensioners who contribute to this. This voucher or benefits in kind would be exempt up to the minimum wage, but it also turns out that the income received in the form of a voucher could not be more than HUF 31 875. In practice, pensioners should only pay taxes or even pay taxes in kind. It is also known that cooperatives could have 90 percent of old-age pension beneficiaries. However, it is a very key point of this draft that the cooperative could act as a quasi- temporary agency, since the pensioner could also perform his/her personal contribution to the cooperative through a service to third parties. In other words, if a company wanted to employ pensioners cheaply, it could borrow from the pensioner's cooperative and conclude a service contract with the cooperative. How realistic this is, it can also be seen that half of employers' organisations have already lined up on this possibility. What does this element show? This element also shows that it is extremely important for the government to keep the average wage low in Hungary, because if pensioners are rented in such cooperative form, the average wage in Hungary is low, and obviously competitiveness, foreign capital, and multinational companies come here, the low average wage is a key issue. A particularly interesting point of the bill is that the State could provide support to the activities of pensioners cooperatives in a proportionate manner, but no more is explained by the justification, for example, why there is an unlimited possibility of state aid or, of course, it will not be possible to know whether, if these cooperatives receive this aid, what will happen to cooperatives that will try to survive on their own initiative without State aid. So the question is, what will happen between the various cooperatives? The question is also whether there will be any quality control, professional supervision over these cooperatives. We believe that there is something wrong with this proposal, and not just because it came to Parliament in the form of an individual motion. First of all, we would like to know what the government is basing the assumption that, or you, pensioners will be able to make a financial contribution to cooperatives from their average pension of 110 to 115 thousand, but mostly under 100 thousand forints. I find it contradictory that while the needy... [[Lajos Kósa: Elizabeth, you are lost! Intercoms.]] How do you know that's 100 forints? [[Anita Herring: Nothing! Lajos Kósa: What reveals more?]] Okay, I guess you'll answer that. [[On the mark of Lajos Kósa:]] He'll answer, okay. We also feel that it is contrary to the fact that while helping pensioners in need [[Tamás Sneider: Risk capital?]] They're talking about supplementing their incomes, turning them into a cooperative form that they can only participate in for a financial contribution, even if it's perhaps only 100 forints. But if it's 100 forints, what's the point? That's the question. It is not clear why this requirement exists that 90 percent of old-age pension beneficiaries can only be members. The elderly, who are in real need, do not receive a pension, only some kind of social benefit, and we do not see what guarantees that the allowance for their personal contribution will reach the minimum wage. Let's just remember that the student associations needed a guarantee rule to get the students to the minimum. There's no guarantee here. So what is the guarantee that you will achieve this? By the way, if the government feels that the public burden is too high for the employment of pensioners, it may be necessary to reduce public burdens and not to create exceptions, so that businesses can then replace their more expensive employees with cheaper ones in search of opportunities to avoid high taxes. If public burdens are felt high by the government, then perhaps the tax system should be changed. Over and over again, we say to make the minimum wage tax-free, to reduce taxes, workers' contributions, as proposed by the LMP. Again, with regard to labour shortages, they are not thinking about how to raise wages and keep the workforce at home, but how to make the workforce cheaper, seeing this opportunity now in pensioners. [[13.40]] There is no guarantee in the proposal that this will not just be another tool to replace existing workers with cheap labour and to curb wages. According to the LMP, tackling labour shortages is not very elegant to start with pensioners. Previously, the LMP presented a five-point package of proposals to address labour shortages, which would have created a general wage increase in the public sector, in the competitive sector; would have renewed vocational training; should have launched a training and adult training programme for public workers; should have started a public housing scheme. This package of programmes, we believe, would have made a significant contribution to reducing overall labour shortages in Hungary. However, this has been voted out, and the employment of pensioners is now emerging, and in a cooperative framework. If you have actually recognised - as the text of the explanatory statement suggests - that there is unemployment and a shortage of labour, then perhaps you should try to do something about it first, do a proper employment policy, raise wages, and then it will be worth working in Hungary. And if they really want to encourage the employment of pensioners, then we think that we should not start with cooperatives, but, for example, by abolishing restrictions on the employment of pensioners in the public sector. And don't pretend it wasn't you who introduced forced retirement in the public sector in 2013, while there was already a shortage of numbers in several sectors, and they made the further employment of some dependent on the Prime Minister's approval. And anyone who could stay, I mean, he didn't have to retire, he was also banned from double benefits, or he was forced to choose: pension or wages. And perhaps the idea of a retirement cooperative will be believable so that retired teachers, music teachers, mathematics teachers, kindergarten workers, health workers can work in the public sector without limitation if you erase all of these. Finally, there is also a need to say a few words about cooperatives. You're basically trying to breathe life into cooperatives, and you're trying to clear the names of the cooperatives that have been defiled in various corruption cases. And in order not to do so, we should start with the creation of a new cooperative law. They've been promising to make a proper cooperative law for years, and we've been waiting for it for years, but instead we've got all sorts of ideas, first the employment cooperatives, and now the pensioners. We don't have much confidence in this cooperative proposal just because of the history. My fellow Member, Ákos Hadházy, has discovered the common money fraud of the employment cooperative in the world of work. As well as the fact that, as of April 2013, it has been operating in a large-scale, organised way to set up criminal networks of 200-300 cooperatives, both to drain EU funds and to allow market participants to reduce their tax obligations by taking advantage of cooperative tax incentives. As long as the cooperative sector is not cleared of these criminal networks and does not form a new cooperative regulation, it is not very fortunate to come up with such proposals. In conclusion, we see that this pensioner cooperative of public interest is essentially another scam for pensioners. In recent years, the government has discredited the form of a cooperative and has set up cooperatives as public money pumps, which have only absorbed EU funds. Pensioners need not cooperatives, but higher pensions and the abolition of rules restricting their employment. You don't want to turn pensioners into cheap workers and use them as a tool on the grounds of a shortage of workers. In its amendment to the budget, the LMP proposed that the pension minimum for 10 years be increased from HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000 next year. We have proposed earlier to bring forward the pension correction in November, after the government deliberately underdesigned inflation in the context of the pension increase. In addition, we are proposing legislation to lift restrictions on employment. We are confident that if you accept these proposals, you can say that you have done something for pensioners. And as long as you do not consult with retired professional organisations or interest representatives on these issues and do not come back with a joint proposal, it is certain that the LMP cannot support this. Thank you.
u2017-05-19-94	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. On behalf of the government, Minister of State Peter Benő Banai applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On some occasions, the government has also addressed me, so allow me to respond briefly to some of the suggestions. The first thing is that the proposal submitted was not prepared by the government; there is no intention, Mr President, to circumvent various proposals. The government and the governing parties are equally concerned about how the labour shortage, which in many cases has already been seen in the Hungarian economy, can be addressed by providing an opportunity to obtain extra income in addition to those that may not be available at the moment. So the thinking is the same, the author, I repeat, as you can see, Mr Lajos Kósa Group leader and Mr Péter Harrach Group leader. The other thing I would like to highlight is that, yes, as you have said, today we are faced with a positive problem for God that there is a shortage of labour in many areas. The situation was quite different a few years ago, and we are now faced with this problem, which needs to be resolved. And it should also be seen that the government and Parliament have already taken a number of measures to help remedy this problem by affecting the retirement population as well. Erzsébet Schmuck said that we should change the tax system then. I report that in the framework of the job protection action, employers will benefit from a contribution allowance in the case of employment of people over 55 years of age. I have to say that if pensioners continue to work and not take up pensions, they will receive a higher pension at the time of retirement, and they will receive a favourable pension compared to their retirement age. So there are still elements that help older people to work; we must see that, along with these elements, there is a shortage of labour in many areas. As far as the public sector is concerned, I think that a distinction must be made between the public sector and the competition sphere. The number of people in the public sector in Hungary is 700,000 - those employed in central budgetary bodies - when we talk about state efficiency, and in the debate on the budget, you have repeatedly talked about the increase in the operating expenditure of the state, then we must also pay attention to the numbers, pay the officials, pay those who serve the state in the same proportion as the expansion of the economy allows. But we need to keep an eye on the numbers. I would like to make it clear here that there is an opportunity to employ people in the public sector who have reached retirement age. Undoubtedly, the main rule is that if a person reaches the retirement age, he can then be further employed if he has the option after the appropriate procedure; or, in the case of employment in the public sector, an action may be brought against persons who have reached the retirement age, but not the pension. If you retire, you will receive a higher pension under the general rules. I therefore believe that a number of measures have been taken in recent years that are favourable to both employers and pensioners, and I repeat that we are seeing labour shortages in a number of areas. A new remedy to this problem is included in the proposal that is currently under negotiation. The first-to-last thought, if I may, is that the proposal is about the exploitation of workers. If I have understood the proposal correctly, it is about whether a pensioner wants to join, if he doesn't want to join, if he doesn't want to join; if he has joined and had positive experiences, he stays, if he doesn't want to quit. So in this sense, the word exploitation, I tell you frankly, is difficult, I think, to interpret. [[13.50]] There may still be issues that are worth discussing and worth considering on issues, but I think that the direction that the proposal is about is in line with the efforts to increase employment and, I add, also the rise in real wages. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-19-96	Thank you. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2017-05-19-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Let me make some comments. A lot has been said, but it is a fact and a fact that two things have struck my mind. One is when Lajos Kósa refers to the European Union that the reason why we had to change some law in school cooperatives was because the Union questioned it, and of course Hungary rushed and solved this problem. There is, however, a discreet charm; as is the case with you, Mr. Head of the Group, as you speak of pensioners. So far, your statements about pensioners have been all about disparaging pensioners. You were the one who said on the columns of the Magyar Hírlap that, in fact, the right to vote should be withdrawn from pensioners and that some family voting rights should be granted, because in the next election, the pensioners, the elderly, should not decide who will lead Hungary in the next period, because - I think - you have justified this by the fact that the middle class or middle age group is the [[Lajos Kósa: You're lying! I'll tell you later. Attila, you're lying! Shame on you.]] I don't think so, because it's from a press release, but it's really good to have you explain that to me, if that's the case. But you also said, Mr. Kósa, that the postman doesn't deliver this Elisabeth voucher, so that pensioners don't think they deserve it. I couldn't appreciate that as such a very positive way of putting it, because retired people are old, but they're not stupid. So in Hungarian, if you tell someone that it's a one-time allowance, just because they see a mailman doesn't mean they're gonna get the benefit right away. It would be worth not being so patronized and fooled by the retirement society, they would certainly enjoy much more support in this age group. But to get back to the specifics, a lot of people here have been talking about it, and they've been going around this topic. It seems to me that this cooperative has only one reason why you want to introduce one of these, because it turns out that it has no professional reason, everyone objects to it, so the stakeholders' representatives, the representative organisations representing all pensioners, are protesting against it. But if we look at the employer's page, there, if I have read it correctly, the Secretary-General of the National Association of Enterprises also said that there is still much work to be done to make this a workable idea, and they believe that this problem could be solved in a completely different way. I do not think that it is in the interest of pensioners to simply force them into something, into a framework, while, as my better fellow Member has said about it, conspiring on a voluntary basis, and then the members in there manage the goods themselves. So the question arises why this is important to you instead of simply changing the law, so they would create a legal environment in Hungarian that would allow pensioners to have employment, because, as has been said in the debate, you have withdrawn it. I think it would be a lot easier if these rules changed. Today, they can no longer say what you said before, that pensioners take the job away from young people, and that is why we need to limit it, because the country is suffering from a labour shortage, so in Hungarian, there is no need to express such type of, otherwise not too positive thoughts. So in Hungarian, it would be much easier if only the legislation changed, and similarly, with discounts, pensioners could return where they should and wherever they want to go to the labour market. Then what's the real reason? I would say that the real reason is that this is a huge market. Here, one of you is likely to like this market again, and they think that it is possible to make a great profit, since 2-4 billion - according to various calculations, depending on how many people participate in such a cooperative - can make a profit. So I'm more of a hunch that someone liked this huge market, the profits that are available here, and I'd like to take the money away again, so they're creating a retirement association so that someone can steal the money, since you've been such a professional way of saying it in your interrogation. So what I'd say is that you take back this bill, you don't want to embarrass pensioners, you don't want to force them to do something much simpler to solve. And, by the way, with the aim of agreeing here, everyone who has so far said to the opposition that the employment situation of pensioners needs to be resolved. I think everyone would be partners in this, but not in this form, I'm pretty sure. So let's not serve fidesz business economic interests, but serve the interests of pensioners and help them, and let's not go after the money who liked it again. Therefore, for our part, as our colleagues have said, we will not support this proposal, and we are asking you to withdraw and start a discussion on how the employment of pensioners could be resolved in a satisfactory way for the country and the national economy, so that it is in the interests of the national economy and also of pensioners. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2017-05-19-98	Thank you. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Member Fidesz, asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-05-19-99	Dear House, This debate strongly reminds me that Dezső Szilágyi's favourite genre was that he turned to Ignatius Helfi and said to him, "Nazika, stop anything, and I will disprove it." The opposition now does not have to say anything, because he himself claims something, and then tries hard to disprove it. There is a debate here about the need to encourage the introduction of a compulsory cooperative scheme. Well, it's not a compulsory cooperative system, it's a choice, it's a voluntary option. When you think about this further, I would like to remind you that I myself believe that this will not, in particular, provide a certain opportunity for university teachers. For example, most pensioners over 65 are in Békés County, the least in Pest County, and in Békés County, those over 65 years of age must not only find a place to work, but must always be able to use their ability to adapt. That would not be the case with a cooperative, which is why I strongly support this law. This cooperative background can ensure that it can be negotiated as an equal, say, in a village with a total of 2-3 employers. This is a completely different aspect. I understand from the opposition side the idea that everywhere, behind something, there's something about who wants to earn and how much they want to earn - but that's not what it is. This is about if someone wants to look for me, and we suggest that they can look for me safely, the cooperative can provide it, and that's what makes me for myself. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I am convinced that the proposal is good, even after the arguments that have been made against themselves.
u2017-05-19-100	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy in two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-05-19-101	Thank you very much. Very briefly. I respect Mr Béla Turi-Kovács very much, and I think that it is always worth paying attention to what he says in the Hungarian Parliament, but I think he has misunderstood what we have been talking about. We believe that this is a bad solution in response to the right objective. So we say that this is not the way to solve this problem. We assume - of course, this is the right of a representative of your heart to judge our assumptions, as is the right of our hearts to judge your assumptions - but basically it is a matter of not agreeing with the means they choose, while everyone says that the direction, so that we do something with this question, is right. That is all I wanted to make clear. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-19-102	Thank you. Vice President Tamás Sneider in two minutes. [[14.00]]
u2017-05-19-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, would like to reflect on the opinion of my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács. Indeed, we can say that there is no coercion here; there is only one problem, and this is something worth looking at. If a person wishes to retire to a slaughterhouse in Békés county alone, then he can be employed there if he is paid 52 percent more tax than if he were to enter, of course, not necessarily, in a cooperative form, because there he could be reduced by 52 percent and a third of his salary. I ask who will then voluntarily go to a slaughterhouse in Békés County, or to any other workplace when the possibility is not forced, but it will be impossible to get to another way, because who would be the entrepreneur who could have someone working for 100 thousand forints, but at the same time he would want to give him 150 thousand forints just because he didn't choose the form of a cooperative or didn't join the cooperative. Summa summarum, it is practically forcing these people into such cooperatives. This may not be the case in the law, but it is quite clear that these people have no choice if they want to find a job. Here's the problem. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2017-05-19-104	Thank you. We're going back to normal speaking. Congresswoman Anita Heringes, MSZP!
u2017-05-19-105	Thank you very much for the floor. There are more things that couldn't fit in the lead speaker's circle. But I certainly feel that I must point out that people over 65 are, of course, not forced back into work, but that they are not getting a decent pension at the moment. From this point on, he is no pressure, just to be able to live and help his children, he can support his grandchildren, because it is becoming more and more so in the country that the pensioner still supports the granddaughter so that she can move forward to go to university, and then she has to go to work. As my fellow Member says, this will be the only way to join the cooperative, because a normal employer will not say that he will want to pay more, but will say that he is looking at his own pocket, it is better for my pocket if I take the pensioner out of this cooperative than on the basis of a job loan, and then we will employ them. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Our problem is that we do not believe in fair intentions, because the experience of the last seven years is that in most cases these cooperatives ended up being exploited. If you have the experience that this is the end, then as much as I believe in that word, I believe that my fellow Members are submitting motions with good intentions, the experience now tells me that I cannot believe that this will end well; because I still do not see why this cooperative should be here. If you hadn't taken away the possibility of flexible retirement, if you had given pensioners the opportunity to work in such a way that it would be easier for the employer to take them in, but you don't have to co-operate with them, because this is an extra one like the NHKV in waste transportation, but it doesn't make any sense; so it could be done well if it wasn't for someone in the cooperative to benefit from it. Which is why we can confirm that the term they create is the public-interest pensioner's union. Fortunately, their fellow Member Gábor Varga may have read this proposal and noticed that only the word "public interest" had not yet been included in it, so he quickly submitted an amendment that it could serve the public interest. It's already in there. So you probably forgot that term because you didn't think that was true either, but my fellow Member, Mr Gábor Varga, probably read the motion and noticed that the most important word in his title was missing from the motion, so he submitted this. What we still think is that it must be said that instead of a cooperative, we should use the labour organisation and encourage employers to reduce taxes and contributions. Such cooperatives are not needed in this form. The protection of pensioners in labour law should be promoted and strengthened. The role of the labour organisation should be developed as a job seeker and intermediary rather than as a result of what is being done to dissipate it and make it almost inoperable. We should create a flexible retirement opportunity, which you just took away. We hope that there will be no overlap between the owners of the school cooperative and the pensioner cooperative, at least in those who create it, who are this 10%, who are not compulsory pensioners. I have therefore tabled an amendment so that there can be no overlap between the two, not like in the list of applicants, because in some interesting way, as in the school associations, Sándor Czomba and Lajos Kósa are among the applicants. I'm guessing they really thought over coffee to give one of my friends a new interface with this cooperative system. We could do this right, we could do this fair and square, if we really had the pensioners in the lobby, if we really wanted to deal with them, so that their lives would be easier for them. I think, as I said at the beginning, that they should be given a decent pension. You don't have to raise pensions by 1.3 percent, which was 0.9 before, but you have to tell them that you have to get a pension that you can make a living on. This applies not only to them, but to this day I find it outrageous that if you go down to small towns in the country, then the parent can't help the child, because he doesn't have anything, but also today, if anyone, a student, needs extra money, then the pensioner has to reach down from his little pension into his pocket and say that, my dear son, I already have enough coats to buy a new one, but then I'll spend my last penny on you. We should give a decent pension to pensioners, raise their pensions properly, not force them to go back to work if they don't want to, because it's a pressure because they can't make a living on this salary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP. Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes. Anita Beringes: My colleague was never here, he doesn't know what's going on!]]
u2017-05-19-106	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Heringes. I salute the Secretary of State, this House, the ladies and gentlemen of Congress. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2017-05-19-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It has been said several times that the principles themselves could be agreed and that they have not agreed with the pensioners' organisations. Then allow some pensioners' organisations' opinions on the law to be read if they have failed, since they have avoided the fact that the amendment was not submitted by the government, but it was tabled as an independent motion. Éva Hegyesiné Orsós, president of the National Association of the Years, said that it was important to look at the interests of employers and employees. Some have an interest in working for a year or two, and that extra resource could be a solution to his life situation. So there are those who are interested in continuing to work, obtaining additional years of service, and thus making their pensions higher.--András Farkas, the head of the following organization:. In the pensioner's cooperative, such income would not be regarded as an action. This would not involve an extra 0.5 per cent increase in pension., in the opinion of the President of the National Representation of Retirementes, György Földényi, the cooperative as an economic and social organization is particularly favourable to those who believe in the idea and principles of association. The Netherlands, Denmark, Italy is very successful in this area. It's good for those who want to create something together, so they invest together because they don't have enough income on their own, and they want to create a profitable business. These were the consumption cooperatives, such as the Ant Society between the two world wars. The principles around the world are: volunteering; one man is one vote; the increase and use of undivided wealth, regardless of the assets received; the election of the officials of the general meeting; the leadership consists of elected members; the principle of solidarity among the members; the statutes must be in accordance not only with the law but also with the international principles of the cooperative movement. Those are the general rules. The excuses. If their salary is not a monetary solution, but a different solution, why would it be beneficial for anyone? It'd be nice to get an answer to that. If a pensioner is forced to enter because this is a way out of poverty or poverty itself, it is not based on the principle of volunteering. The principle of volunteering has already been set. What happens to the investment of the sick or deceased members because of the organization's abilities? What if there's a bankruptcy? Who's gonna take the damage? We have seen many of these examples. The cooperative, as a free form of association, can serve as a good cause, but if coercion leads it to become a member of the cooperative, then the coercion policy of the '50s is immediately remembered. Ferenc Dávid, the Secretary-General of VOSZ, representing the interests of employers, has an opinion on the law: he believes that the bill is not acceptable in its present form, and that at best further amendments should be made to ensure proper operation. The secretary-general noted that it is difficult to imagine non-competitive pensioners becoming cooperative members. Pensioners will have to pay membership fees as members of a cooperative, which is clearly an additional burden for them. In addition, the risk of pensioners' cooperatives of general interest not becoming a type of money launderer should be avoided. Nor is it yet to be estimated what it will cost to the State, as the organisation believes that cooperatives can be supported by the budget, without which the secretary-general believes they would not be able to function. [[14.10]] The vice-president of the Hungarian Trade Union Association finds the pro-government proposal amazing. Tamás Székely, who is also the president of the Association of Trade Unions in the Hungarian chemical, energy and related professions, writes in his statement: Lajos Kósa and Péter Harrach's proposal would send people back to work on shifts who are vulnerable because of their small pensions. The Vice-President reminded me that a few years ago, when law enforcement workers, doctors, judges were retiring from the current government, hundreds of thousands of people left the country. The union manager asked the question, should retired people go back to work? The VDSZ does not agree that pensioners should be brought into the cooperative and then be treated as temporary workers in the most vulnerable situation. Retirementes should be left alone, they should not be forced to work against their will. Here, let me point out that you have said that because it is based on volunteering, you have shown exactly at Esos how volunteering works in Hungary. It was also a form of association. It could have created good goals and done good things. Volunteering didn't work there either, because if someone didn't take the job of joining the cooperative, they immediately took the aid away from him. Do you know what happened, fellow Members? When the cooperative failed, who were they blaming? The 3,000 underprivileged employees who were brought into the cooperative. Even pro-government politicians spoke and said that the cooperative didn't work because they didn't want to work. Here are the living examples of how these workers were exploited. And we can bring up the Bridge to work again. It's a win-win for everyone, the board, except for the target group. There, too, I say we are talking about 1.6 billion forints or 1.2 forints, but it is already over 3, because the state has supported this cooperative in addition, and we still do not see anyone being held accountable. I would say to my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, that I think that if someone worked 40 to 45 years and reached 65 years, his goal is not to get back to work. That's not what he's trying to do! He wants to help his kid raise his granddaughter, he wants to be happy, and if he has the right pension, he's not in his right mind to go back to work after 40 years. It's the government's admission that his policy has failed. All his policies have failed. We need proper pay, and in some way we should strive to bring young people back to the country, the 600,000 young people who left because your economic policy has failed in this country. And we shouldn't put pensioners back in the labour market. You chased the pensioners away a few years ago, and we're redirecting them now by making them completely vulnerable to the labour market. This bill cannot be supported in this form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-19-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, May Other be Politics.
u2017-05-19-109	Thank you very much. I just slipped from two minutes ago, so now I'm pressing a normal button. I have a few questions I didn't get an answer to. First of all, Mr Secretary of State said that it was not prepared by the government, but I heard the opposite in the Economic Committee that we did not think that some Members would wake up and then prepare this bill, and that it was not actually prepared by the government. So I'd like to know now whether the government or not prepared it. [[To the intervention of Lajos Kósa:]] Good. Which I also didn't get an answer to. I would very much like to know why you have not consulted with the representatives of pensioners' organisations. If you have now been prepared by individual representatives and representatives, why do some of you think that the bill involving two million people can be prepared in an appropriate way, with appropriate arguments, even if there is research. Why do they not feel the need to sit down in some form - round table and others - and listen to them say what they really want? I'd like to get an answer here. I would also like to know, because the draft does not show that - the government will be able to support these pensioners' cooperatives - who will decide what kind of support these cooperatives may receive. Now, obviously, beyond what is legally stated here, the social contribution does not have to be paid and how pensioners can benefit from it, so when and how the government decides to do so. Or is it in the budget now, or is it going to be the source of this? The next question has been mentioned several times that these pensioners' cooperatives can lend people and workers to reduce labour shortages. [[Lajos Kósa: That's what you said. That's not in the bill. The president's ringing the bell.]] Yeah? Isn't that in there? Then you can't rent me out, does that mean? [[The president's ringing the bell. Lajos Kósa: Renting a labour force is another law.]] Then I don't know where that's coming from.
u2017-05-19-110	Excuse me, Mr. Team Leader Kosha, please.
u2017-05-19-111	Yeah, let's not talk, that's what the president wants. But what's interesting is why it's worth creating a cooperative. There will be some EU funds for a while. Then I think that these cooperatives are for a European Union proposal, for a project... [[Lajos Kósa: Not a penny! That's what you said! The president's ringing the bell.]] Not a penny. Then it's not very understandable anyway...
u2017-05-19-112	Mr. Team Leader Kosa, please.
u2017-05-19-113	Then perhaps I would like to have answers to these questions, what these cooperatives would actually do then, so they will not lend out labour, there will be no projects, there will be no European Union money. So what is their motivation? Why are they created? When I can get an answer to that. There is no difference between us, and we also see that the shortage of labour is a very serious problem in Hungary today. We also believe that, by the way, there are many pensioners who have retired, are healthy, have a lot of knowledge, experience, and would like to work in their retirement years. But we don't believe that, and I don't think that's the form in which pensioners can be involved, in substance. Mr State Secretary mentioned that there is already such an incentive that if one of the pensioners continues to work for a few years, his pension will be one or two percent higher. However, I think that if a pensioner works x time, which goes by law and retires, turns 65 years, we let him retire, he gets his pension, but then if he wants to work, he's gonna compete in the market. If, as a pensioner, he is working after him, let us allow him to have flexible employment, as in the public sector, but not in the form of a cooperative. Why do we need to create a form of cooperative in the public interest? This is the business of two people: the employer and the employee. If there are employment services, then the pensioner will also find a job. Then what is the need to intervene in such a pensioner's cooperative? There's no need. But I'm not even gonna argue that there might be a case like this. Still, I need you to answer me why we don't have a meeting with them. Why don't you ask them why some people decide what's good for over two million people? [[Lajos Kósa: Two and a half!]]
u2017-05-19-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Have a seat. Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else has a need to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I would like to ask who among the authors wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa. [[14.20]]
u2017-05-19-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. I am now taking advantage of this opportunity, just because I have been a Member of the Hungarian Parliament for quite a long time, I am precisely one of the five who have been Members of Parliament since 1990. But it's been a long, long time since I've been in a parliamentary debate where I would have heard so much nonsense, especially from opposition speakers. At the very beginning, which is complete nonsense, this proposal has nothing to do with temporary agency work. That is also the answer to my fellow Member, Ms Schmuck Erzsébet. Any suggestion that brought up a job loan is a serious and fundamental mistake. Rental of workers is a completely different atypical employment policy instrument, with about half a million people working in the framework of temporary agency work, and temporary agency work is a special part of the labour code. So in that sense, it's not part of this thing. So all the points that have been made in this regard are a complete and fundamental mistake. This form, namely the cooperative form and the pensioner cooperative, has nothing to do with any EU money, has nothing to do with it, is not supported by the Union, in this sense, any claim concerning potential misuse, tender or such of EU money is a serious and fundamental error. This proposal simply has nothing to do with this. Similarly, socialist fellow Members have long described the criticism of social cooperatives in their discussions. It's a completely different alliance, nothing to do with social networking. By the way, they could have talked about the Soviet Colhos system, because it had nothing to do with this, nor did social cooperatives. For example, there is a fundamental difference between being a member of a social cooperative and being a member of a pensioner and a member of a cooperative. There's a big difference. And when someone is retired, but doesn't work, so every comparison is that the workers who are in a relationship with a company under the Labour Code and then enter into a pensioner's cooperative, and they will be employed on this basis, that's basic nonsense. There's a retirement age. If it is beneficial for an employer or employer to work with a pensioner cooperative, he cannot cross his employees because they are not pensioners. So that's total nonsense. Discussions about this have nothing to do with what we're talking about here. Similarly, there is a completely serious misunderstanding of any discussion of exploitation and non-payment. What are we talking about here? The cooperative members decide for themselves the extent to which the cooperative members involved in the work will be paid for this. So it is pointless, since it is self-employment and, of course, cooperatives have one member-one vote, they can decide how this will be divided. In this sense, anyone who thinks that a job doesn't get enough remuneration, takes on a job, pays little for it, says thank you very much, I won't be a part of it unless you pay more. Done. And then you can't exploit anyone from here on out, because it can judge you. It's just like looking for a job, judging whether or not he's getting paid enough at that job. If you don't pay enough, you don't go to work, you'll find another. It is clear here that opposition colleagues do not understand the functioning of the cooperative system in principle, and that they have never seen a cooperative, such as a student association, which makes this system work well. In addition, we can prevent even what Comrade Csaba Czeglédy, your esteemed fellow politician, has tried to do with the warranty elements that we have determined, because all student cooperative frauds are based on his know-how. So there was some kind of job written out, and the fake, by the way, student associations organised by Czeglédy took a job at a very normal market price, which then happened without paying the students, and the contractor took off with the money. We prevented this by making him a reverse taxer - because the VAT was the toy - the student cooperative work or this contract, and otherwise we introduced the minimum remuneration, under which work can no longer be carried out. This is important because of this, of course, the stupidity does not follow that if there is a minimum remuneration, then no one can be rewarded. This is just like someone saying that after the economy has a minimum wage, it is quite obvious that no one will earn more than the minimum wage. Again, this is a blatant nonsense, but it is no wonder that many have not even read or understood the proposal. Similarly, who misses this proposal - as my colleague Tamás Sneider - that the other general rules of association have been left out of this proposal, has not noticed that this proposal amends the cooperative law and introduces this new form of association, the pensioner cooperative. But it does not change anything from the general normative system of the existing cooperative law, which applies mutatis mutandis to these. So a member-one vote; personal contributions can be undertaken, but not an obligation. The financial contribution means that this is also the case in the cooperative law, that the cooperative is formed by its members and that they vote on what the financial contribution should be. It could be a forint, by the way. It's up to them! That doesn't have to be prescribed by the law. And since these cooperatives typically take the business form of undertaking their labour force, which they carry out with the members' personal cooperation, there is only business risk in this sense as much as there is for all people if they go to work. There's a risk, because if you do damage to your workplace, it's his personal responsibility, but it's not the cooperative's, so make no mistake. In this sense, all other rules of the cooperative law apply to pensioners' cooperatives, so these claims cannot be understood. Erzsébet Schmuck also had a problem with payment and tax-free benefits and food vouchers. If the cooperative members decide to do a job, they will do it, and they will have to pay them the last cent for this work, they will pay everything in HUF, as appropriate. It's just an opportunity again. Because let's just think that the cooperative has to be maintained in some way, there's some kind of HR activity, there's some kind of back-office activity, there's an office, there's a phone, they're picking up the phone, they're signing contracts, and all that, and all that. So just as it works in life that there is a business, there is an Iksman working in it, 95 percent of the business fee should be paid in cash, but 5 percent should be added to the common cost, because we need to maintain an office, staff, contracts, and the rest, and the rest, may then arise - some kind of financial result in the cooperative. This is what we say is possible if the cooperative decides to distribute the financial result to the members in a tax-free form. I would like to emphasise once again that there is no pressure in this. If someone doesn't like this, they shouldn't become a cooperative member or form a retirement association. This is merely an opportunity, there is no obligation to do so, of course. That is why we are saying that all the points that we have here about such compulsions are a complete misunderstanding of the proposal. A membership fee in cooperatives - there was such a suggestion - is only if the cooperative votes in some way, but this is not a mandatory element at all. So the membership fee as a mandatory element is incomprehensible. The membership fee in the cooperative is only in some form, but it is also not called membership fee if it is included in the statutes by the members of the cooperative. Anyone who doesn't want it, don't put it in, and then there's no membership fee. So this idea is completely pointless. [[14.30]] The suggestion of a cooperative that pensioners are being ignored is again pointless because, by the way, pensioners are members of the cooperative and they vote on everything. One member, one vote. So they can't be eliminated. In fact, you can't profit from that. Any suggestion that might have implied that I didn't know who was looking for me on this is pointless. The pensioners can look for me on this one, no one else. They're members of the cooperative, taking a job. You can't win with that. So this idea is completely pointless. Some things have not been closely linked to the debate, but I feel that it needs to be responded to. What my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy said is indeed a lie. I would like to stress that in my life I have spoken respectfully about pensioners, and I have the utmost respect for the people who have worked their lives off, paying their pension contributions to employers, putting something on the table together. That is why I strongly refused to take the 13th month pension at the time, which Attila Mesterházy voted for. So much for respect for pensioners. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] That is why I rejected the proposal that the Socialists had voted for at the time, and you have also rejected the fact that, regardless of whether someone is working or not, a general housing tax has been introduced, which, thanks to God, has been prevented by the Constitutional Court. That's why I took all their austerity measures with protest because he had no regard for anything in the world. Attila Mesterházy voted for this in person. Check it out. In doing so, he took part in the irresponsible governance that had bankrupted the country by 2010. What he quoted from the Hungarian Hírlap sounds like this. I supported, I support - I just know that there is absolutely no majority of this - that mothers, this has nothing to do with pensioners, mothers who raise children under 18 years of age, can get the extra voting right that goes after the child. So if a mother has two children under 18, then that mother should have one vote in the election on her own and two more votes after her two children. I think this because, in many respects, Hungarian law, the Constitution, also creates legal capacity for people under the age of 18, and for young people, they can inherit, they are legal in a lot of things, but they are excluded from the election for various reasons. Where they have interests, by the way, it's quite obvious that they have something to do with the future. That's why I told the mothers to have this. It's a fundamentally different term for suffrage, but it's a voter's debate, it has nothing to do with pensioners. That is why he was infinitely unfair and lying, my fellow Member, when he mentioned this about pensioners. There is another thing, because it is also constantly quoted by the opposition [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's quite simply ignoring all the data that exists. Namely, how many people work abroad and why they left the country. According to statistics, from 1990 to 2004, until our EU membership, the number of workers in EU countries has risen from zero to 240 thousand. So from 90 to 2004 - it wasn't really possible in 90 - 240 thousand Hungarians have undertaken work in European Union countries. When we joined the EU, this became much more free, but by 2015, there was accurate statistics, and the number of these people went up to 350 thousand. In other words, that any Fidesz government would have chased them away would have caused it, it is simply a vile lie and a misunderstanding of statistics. In addition, 110,000 of these 350,000 people are commuters a day or a week, which means that they are basically living at home, but only working abroad. Especially on the west border. So to understand that by driving them out of the country, it's obviously impossible again. And let me draw the attention of honourable opposition representatives to the fact that the Germans work outside Germany in the highest proportion and most of the countries of the European Union. However, it is obviously not true that the Germans, more than 1 million Germans, work not in Germany, but elsewhere, have a figure of exactly 1 million 800 thousand, so it is clear that they did not leave because the hopeless situation in Germany, the hopeless German relations, the inopportunities and similar stupidities, were driven away by anyone. In the European Union, the labour market and employment conditions in a given country are characterised by the fact that if we consider the proportion of workers in a given country to be 100 per cent, about 10 per cent of them work not in that country, but across Europe. Spanish, German, Czech, Slovak, Polish. And there is a problem where in a given EU country this rate is already significantly more than 10 percent. That is why this is a serious problem in Bulgaria or Romania, because there is a much larger number of Romanians or Bulgarians working outside the country than in the labour market there. But the 10 percent is a completely normal phenomenon in Europe, resulting from the single capital market, the single labour market, the free movement of capital and services. Of course, this could be explained by administrative reasons, but the fact is that this is also the case in sectors where salaries in Hungary are not very different from salaries in other European countries, if we take into account the fact that the cost of living must also be proportionate in some way. Because it is obvious that the real income difference is there that I get paid in England, but I build my existence with existential costs in Hungary. Because in England, it's not the rich people who work at McDonald S. Only if you're English and you work at McDonald S, then, of course, if you look at the cost of living in English, it's not a good position. [[György Szilágyi: You've never been to the English store.]] So, in this sense, Hungarians also go to work abroad in sectors where you can also see that payments are not more specific. Experience, opportunity, relationship, a lot of things. To make this look like the result of some sort of catastrophic economic policy? Anyone who does this simply does not understand the economic functioning of the European Union. You really don't understand, and you have no idea how people's motivations and the labour market operate this whole system. Mr. President. Dear House, Finally, I would just like to say that, after this is really voluntary, I also came from those who disagree with this, do not enter. Don't make a pensioner's union. Absolutely not. Because it's just an opportunity. I would, of course, like to exempt the government, because my fellow opposition Members may not believe that, because they themselves have not done this, it is a motion entirely by Members. The government has nothing to do with the motion. [[Anita Herring: We don't believe it.]] This motion was developed together with the co-workers of the Cooperative Research Centre, and we worked on it for quite a while. [[Anita Beringes: We know who you worked with.]] We thought that we should ask the pensioners themselves in the form of a pensioner's research because I thought the opinion of pensioners was more reliable than the opinion of the leaders of some obviously politically committed pensioners' organisations. After all, it is no coincidence that all those quoted here have a rather significant party affiliation. The average pensioner's opinion in this sense weighs much more. I would ask Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this bill, the amendment of the cooperative law. If you support it, and we achieve any result from it, it is, of course, the success of the Hungarian Parliament, because we have made a bill that implements a well-functioning system. Of course, if the matter fails, it is the responsibility of the authors. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-19-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Lajos Kósa. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure and the Act XLVI of 2001 on consular protection. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. [[14.40]] The government referral is T/155559. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-19-117	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The registry is the basis for all personal records, which have been kept unchanged for some 120 years, although some data or forms have changed, but the structure of the principles and records remains virtually unchanged to this day. Separately, it records as an event the most important stages of human life, birth, marriage, and death. It is to be recognised that the register, which was established more than a hundred years ago, has stood the test of time, demonstrated in the long term that the idea was correct, that the register was suitable for the desired goal, and that, despite the changes in the world, it has not been possible to set up a system that would have served better the purpose of the register. During our lifetime, we have all met with the registry, asked for a birth certificate for marriage, the birth of our children, kindergarten, school, and the enforcement of our rights. As a result of the second phase of the public debt reduction, the issue of birth certificates became free from 16 March 2017. Thank you very much for the attitude of Members of Parliament in support of this. I am convinced that, in the long term, the administrative burden arising in the context of the civil status procedure can be reduced, but we must preserve the public credibility, security and trust of citizens and institutions in the register. However, the rules on the conduct of proceedings and the participation in proceedings, which do not require a level of law, are removed from the law by amending the Act on the Civil Registration Procedure, thus making certain rules on registration more transparent, as a result of the amendment, the persons acting as Registrars will be defined at the level of government decrees, in the same way as the designation of the civil status body. As a consequence, and in particular, the proposal does not aim to amend the current rules of civil status of local authorities, which have been raised several times, and we can now say that there is no debate in this regard. If the bill is adopted, the implementing rules will also be laid down. The birth-book events involving Hungarian citizens in 2016 are represented in the following figures, and here I would also like to refute the figures that have been made here in Parliament, which have shown a much larger scale. Born abroad: 13 118, married abroad: 8777, death abroad: 2532, registered partnership abroad: 10. These events were subsequently registered in Hungary. The tasks related to this task imposed a heavy administrative burden on our fellow citizens, as the registration of the foreign birth register can only be carried out by Hungarian authorities under the current rules. By amending the law, one of our main objectives is to ensure that the registration of Hungarian children born abroad is the least administrative burden for Hungarian citizens living abroad, so that Hungarian registration can be carried out by the consular services, with which we significantly facilitate the rules of registration. Accordingly, there will be no need to send foreign documents to Hungary and to carry out official activities in Hungary, and to a large extent also to translate documents. A large part of the related IT system is available, and where it is not, it will be built over time. The consular service can carry out tasks related to registration in the light of appropriate expertise and the particular features of the country concerned. Thus, compared to what has been done so far, there will be considerable time savings in the procedure. The amendment also clarifies the provisions on professional management and supervision. In view of this, the Minister responsible for civil matters shall exercise the professional management of the bodies competent to carry out the civil status procedure and shall supervise the activities of the civil status body. In the context of applications for registration of first names not included in the first name list, the amendment also lays down the framework of the procedure in such a way that, as a result of the amendment, the detailed rules necessary for obtaining the declaration of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences are laid down. So far, this has actually happened on an ad hoc basis, if the law is adopted, then, on the basis of a regulation, the procedure for detail rules becomes predictable. This regulation makes it clear that not only in the case of a name chosen by parents, but also in the case of a change of name, it is possible to conduct proceedings for the inclusion in the first name list of names not included in the first name list. Many families in the country are affected by regulations and shortcomings in the management and registration of two-member family names. Those whose family names are composed of two members, such as Szilaj-Varga, may request that their family names be entered in the register with or without hyphen, as requested by the registry authority, to transfer the changes to the register. However, there is a particular category of names, the group of so-called predator names, which is also a major problem for linguists. Since we can generally consider any name element attached to the name of the named person in the name of a community for some reason, it occurs in the name other than its last name and first name. The use of predatory names is widespread in some parts of our country, and in many cases the holders of the names themselves do not treat them as a reptile name, but as an official name, as they have already been registered in the register. These families are proud of these names, because they are proud of the people from whom they have inherited these names, so to speak. In view of this, the legislator intends, on the basis of the bill, to remove the earlier registered letter in the register, and to remove the legal disadvantage imposed by the current practice on persons with a predatory name which is not part of the family name. Our aim is to establish a legal regulation whereby the predatory name previously registered in the register can be borne by the modification of the rules of the surname correction, taking into account, of course, the decision of the person concerned and the rules of the registration. The procedure is free of charge on the basis of our proposal in the context of the public debt reduction. On the basis of the additional provisions of the bill, the registration of the signature and stamp of the holder of the certificate for the purpose of diplomatic verification is added. The signatures and stamp impressions required for diplomatic verification are currently sent on paper to the Minister for Foreign Policy responsible for diplomatic over-certification. The amendment simplifies and accelerates the authentication of documents to be used abroad by making the signature and stamp samples required for certification available from the register. To sum up, the basic objective of the bill is to maintain public credibility and reliability in the register as core values while creating a faster and easier administration, which will make it easier for both citizens and public authorities. The simpler and more efficient provision of tasks as a result of the planned changes is also linked to the achievement of the objectives of a good state. In order to reduce administrative bureaucracy, 260 laws have been amended or repealed so far, leading to faster procedures for certain authorities. In this way, the administration within eight days will be introduced and legal institutions capable of withdrawing proceedings have been repealed. [[14.50]] In addition, nearly 40 public administration and court-martial procedures have become free of charge in achieving the objectives of the public debt reduction. The ID card, the address card, the admission procedure for higher education, registration of a company is well-known, so about HUF 14.5 billion per year is saved by citizens and businesses. We believe that this is a worthy continuation of the facilitations and accelerations of the registrar procedure. In order to simplify the procedure for the register, I ask the Honourable Parliament and its fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-19-118	Thank you, Secretary of State Kovács. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-19-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Secretary of State presented the proposal in detail and precisely. I would just like to draw attention to some of the aspects that I consider important for my part. I think that a form of care is by allowing parents to have the least administrative problems and difficulties in children born abroad with this law. When they allow this registration to take place on the spot, naturally empowering the consular offices to participate in it, it is also a gesture that says that the mother country, your country, is trying to take care of you here, and intends to provide the easiest way possible for your child to be Hungarian, born Hungarian, and also to remain Hungarian. I think it's important, and maybe I'd like to share a few thoughts about that, the case of predatory names. There's been a mistake before, and I have to say it's a bad practice. It has simply been ignored by the legislator, and I must say that at the time, many of us and many of us have made mistakes that in one area, as the Secretary of State has said, it is important to keep the names of the predators. In a village, in a village, even where I come from, there is almost no name that doesn't have a name, and which is identified with the family, the person who wore it for centuries. When difficulties were encountered, and when this was indicated, it was a right to intervene specifically in personal matters by those who had to suffer any disadvantages in this regard. The law aims to eliminate these disadvantages. I have to say, the simplest form of free choice is guaranteed and guaranteed by the law. I believe that this exceptional proposal, which the opposition can wholeheartedly support, because I do not see in it, and perhaps the opposition will find none of the things that, in some way, could be detrimental to citizens and citizens. I would also like to point out, in relation to the bill, that when it places certain areas of registration at the level of a government decree, I beg you, do not see anything in this, that the government will remove the opportunities from the law, but rather look at simplification. I think that the job of legislation is not to make it difficult for citizens to have access to the law, but to simplify it. I think it's in the right place in this row. The Fidesz fraction is T/155559. I personally support it myself. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-05-19-120	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group indicated that two speakers would speak in the 15-minute time frame [[For signal:]] - just a speaker, and this one will be Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, as I see it. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-19-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, At the head of the Secretary of State, he said that registration in Hungary has remained unchanged for 120 years, which is not entirely accurate, because changes were made in 2013, when the four birth certificates were simplified, made electronic, and in fact a very nice custom in Hungary has ceased with this step, when the parties to be married sign in a large book. This kind of tradition ceased in Hungary after 2013. Today, the ceremony is signed, but now they're signing, not the big book, but a marriage card. At the time, we said this as a criticism that it might not have been necessary to stop it. My fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, must have known something by now because he told us not to criticize this law. After all, there are points in it that we have an obligation to do in order to be critical. It is very right to facilitate the registration of Hungarian children born abroad, because in recent years we have seen such scandalous cases, and almost all we have seen is that these children have been subjected to proceedings from half a year to more than one year. What you need to know is that if you do not have a Hungarian birth certificate, you cannot bring this child home to Hungary, and in many cases family visits could not be made exactly because the child did not have the right documents. This is a very necessary step, but as a criticism, we can say that the government could have done this sooner, we should not have waited so long. The explanatory statement states that the legislative proposal is not intended to amend the existing rules of competence in the municipalities, which will also be laid down in the implementing rules if the bill is adopted. The thing is, we don't really believe that. In essence, if you give the authorities the opportunity to take away the registration itself, and the government office will appoint these persons, well, we have seen a crow on a stake, if I may say this in rural terms, then I think that it may be possible that from now on that authority will be taken away from the local government, and then the government office will decide who will be the director of the registry who will carry out these procedures, whether the registry or the name of the marriage. I think that we should no longer take away tasks from the municipalities to this extent. In recent years, we have seen that there will be no more work for the municipalities, or that they can be removed if this continues. It is also amazing that there is no possibility of appeal in civil matters. This practically means that because of a birthright typo, for example, if Anett is written with a, t, the poor citizen will have to go to court. He must also go to the Court of Justice if the parent's earlier registration is due to the fact that the writing machines at the time did not have a long letter, the correct spelling of the name must be obtained by means of an appeal. We don't understand why this is necessary. My own example is that when I was born, my mother's name was miswritten in the register, written for Katalin Túri, with a long, unwrong name when my mother was born as Katalin Turi. I've had some problems in my life, but I don't understand why you're gonna have to demand this in court so that someone can change that. If one of the birth certificates is presented and verified by the name of my mother, then why do you need to prove these things in court? It's amazing to see the need to rewrite the rules on repulsive names again. The explanatory statement states that it now seeks to remove the legal disadvantage of persons with previously registered letters in the register and the name of a predator which does not form part of the family name. It is strange that the possibility of correction for the registration of predatory names was introduced on the motion of MEP Zsolt Semjén and Alpár Gyopáros with a bill submitted in 2015, the T/12065. It was a law. It was already suspected that a further example of personalised legislation had been presented to the Parliament. At the time, the government did not take the bill in its name, so it was likely that Zsolt Semjén and Alpár Gyopáros appeared among the acquaintances who could not arrange the name-keeping and insisted on the name of the predator otherwise registered in the register. The new rules had to be applied in the ongoing procedures, which only strengthened our suspicions. Because of these mistakes, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[15.00]]
u2017-05-19-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-19-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, spoke about the importance of public credibility in the case of civil registers, and that this bill will not undermine this. We agree that the most important thing, indeed, is public credibility, is that a birth, marriage, the fact of death are the most important events in life. There's no problem with that. It would also be appropriate to state that there is no need for changes in powers and that this law does not affect powers. It is true that the Member who spoke before me noted that if he got out of the legislative framework and came to the level of a ministerial regulation, there may be changes in the rules of competence. This is true, indeed, there is this danger, but it must also be seen that Fidesz-KDNP, which has a majority, can also change the law at any time, so that it can also modify the powers. What's happening is that we can give our opinions here, and we won't be able to give our opinions there. Mr Secretary of State also spoke about the fact that, in the last year, 13 118 children have been born. This is really a very big deal, and the media has very much focused on this fact that today about one sixth of children are born abroad. I think that this figure is far from real, that it is one sixth of Hungarian children. So this is not real in my opinion, because the news has already spread around 2010 that about a quarter of Hungarians are born in Hungary, and only three quarters are born in Hungary, and now about 800 thousand Hungarians have gone to England, Germany, Austria and other countries, and the number of children born there is one-sixth, and then we can say that almost half of children with Hungarian mother tongue are born abroad. I think it is very good to have the idea of making it easier for them to keep their registers, because the media has told horror stories about how difficult it is for a family to repatriate, to move home, how much bureaucracy there is in such cases, what mazes of bureaucracy they have to suffer before they can arrange to have the right documents in Hungary to submit their family allowance, to avail themselves of the benefits for the child, to what kind of hermitage this is, and it is indeed necessary to simplify this procedure substantially. However, I think that this issue should not be approached from here, but from the fact that emigration itself should be stopped. Prime Minister said that the Hungarian people are leaving because of an adventure. They are not going out for a living, and more and more Hungarian people are going out. When a statistic was produced, I recall about a year ago, when young people in college were asked where they imagined their lives, it was shocking that half of these young people abroad imagined their future to go abroad. It is really necessary if they will really go out and simplify the registration procedure, only who will stay here in Hungary, who will work in this society, who will make up this Hungarian society. So we should approach from here, and the government should do it here. It is true that this kind of facilitation is also very important, and the simplification of the procedure is indeed in everyone's interest. There's always a problem with first names, there's always a problem with what can be registered, what can't be registered. The process was defined with the help of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I think that it will also be good if the detailed rules of this will be laid down by the competent ministry, and then it may be easier with the detailed rules. It's about the predator names. Here, all keynote speakers mentioned the problem of predatory names, and my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács also spoke about the importance of distinguishing people from each other at the place of residence. I believe that I have already given the example here in Parliament - I too come from a village, a settlement called Féneslite - here a very distinctive example of the name of the predators, when a complete stranger walks the main street of the village and asks the lady sweeping the sidewalk at the first houses to tell us where Little Pista lives. They said he lives in the front of the street. The retired lady thinks, thinks, says, "Well, Little Pista doesn't live here." I've lived here since I was born, and there's no Little Pista living all over the street. You keep going, they tell him you live here. He's going on, he's barely going 20 meters, when she's yelling, stop, man, come back, that's my husband! Because everyone in the whole village called the whole family by the name of the predator, only the whole village knew him, and even the 70-year-old lady had forgotten that that István Kis was the official name of her husband. So that's how important the names of predators in a village are to distinguish each other. It is just really questionable, as the lead speaker who spoke before me said, whether these should be entered in the register, whether it is necessary to register it. Because the fact that everyone in the village knows who it means, which family it is, but whether it has to be registered, we'll think about it. When the debate took place here in Parliament, I looked very closely at how the Hungarian linguists, who deal with family names, define the concept of predatory names. It turns out that even the concept of predator names is not clear in Hungary, so we can't accurately describe the meaning of predator names. And speaking of predatory names, linguists have generally determined that a predator name can be a distinctive name, a nasty name, and a nickname. It's a nasty name that kids give each other, and then they're stuck on them and they're bringing it to adulthood, it's a nickname that adults give and glue to someone, and the distinguishing name is a personality trait that you look like, and they say a distinctive name based on it, and the family will carry it on. I do not want to tell you what kind of predatory names are, for example, in our home village, because it does not tolerate printing, and it would not be appropriate to bring them to Parliament. And then, in private, I'll tell the person who cares, and I'll tell them under what circumstances some of these names have been created. It is true, indeed, that this will accompany that family for decades, even centuries, and in many cases they do not even know what the original reason for the repulsive name was. But, as I said, at least 50 percent of these predatory names come from something that would be registered in the register, I say that it would be extremely unfair, not to mention that the person it refers to may not be degraded. You are right, Mr State Secretary, that you are not obliged to enter this in the register, but then what, then, is so, why bring it here, why this is necessary. We didn't support this kind of legislative proposal even then, precisely because of the fact that we don't think these predatory names belong in the register. Everyone in the village and settlement is aware of it, and therefore everyone knows it, but these are not in the register. It was also incomprehensible to us who the personal interest of whom wanted his name to be included in the register, who made it necessary to modify this 70-year-old system, which has been working well for everyone in Hungary for seventy years. Moreover, if we were to distinguish the distinguishing letters, they could be entered in the register before; they were already there, according to that. For example, let me give you my personal example: There are a lot of Gyűres in Féneslitke, almost a quarter of the village's Gyűres. There were D. Rings, there were T. Rings, and everyone had their little letter, and on that basis everyone could tell which family or whom it was, and it worked excellently. I don't think it's necessary to enter this in the register. However, I feel that I am not sure that this bill can be supported. As I said, the part that simplifies the procedure, which makes it faster, makes the registration of children born abroad more effective, we fully agree with this part, although we would prefer that these children be born in Hungary and that the government would try to keep these young people going abroad. So they should be kept here, but if they do go abroad, their registration should be simplified. I think the names of the predators should consider whether the government will maintain any changes in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.10]]
u2017-05-19-124	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Gyure. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent Member in the Chamber, no one has applied for two minutes, no further representatives have spoken, Honourable Parliament, and therefore the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Zoltán Kovács, if he wishes to respond. [[On Dr. Zoltán Kovács' signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-19-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to remove some misunderstanding here, and I would like to respond to what the Congresswoman has said. There is an electronic register not in 2013, but since 1 July 2015. Indeed, there are important acts of marriage, ring pulling, kissing, drinking champagne, and signing could have been an important part of it, but today they can do the same on this particular page; but in the electronic administration, it may not be necessary to sign at a customer's door at such a marriage. So this particular teatrality is also... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: The Secretary of State is not romantic! The president's ringing the bell.]] I was married a long time ago, so I didn't sign this card yet, I registered it in the birth certificate. But I think this is a less important circumstance for all of the law. What is more important is, in my view, and has indeed been said by everyone, is the protection of children. From a child's point of view, the cases were not in the domestic register, so it was not registered here, but the transfer of documents from abroad caused several months of delay, and a newly born baby could indeed be brought home later than the parents wanted. That is why this was born, and this is one of the most important elements of this law, that the consuls are entitled to do so in this particular executive government decree, so that the deadline can be minimized. I continue to say - of course, it is the right of the opposition to take away additional tasks from the government - that we stated three years ago, two years ago, and now again that the register remains with the municipalities, we do not want to take it away, and this is not the result of the implementing regulation, since there will be a prescription for the head of the registry. And as for the appeal, there have hardly been any appeals in recent years. The congresswoman does not work in the administration of the state and is not a lawyer, so let her say that in all such cases, which she has given an example, the civil status authority can correct itself if something is wrong, and there is also a government office that can correct it in supervisory power, and if it cannot be resolved anywhere, either on the first instance authority or in the supervisory measure, then it is necessary to go to the court; but I think that this will not happen. And as far as the names of the predators are concerned, I can see that this has excites everyone here in Parliament. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There are four of us!]] It's an opportunity. The notary writes if anyone who has a predator's name wants to be registered in the register or doesn't want it. Those who consider this to be important - it is a summary name, and this includes many things, not only the rag names that do not tolerate printing ink, but also the various noble prefixes, and the others, which they are very proud of in the family and would like to be included in the register - let the citizen himself, not the authority, not the Member of Parliament, decide on this, but let him himself decide whether he wants it or not. You get an invitation to do that, you want it, you register it, you don't want it, you don't get it. So I think that this is done on the basis of the citizen's free choice, under this law he is entitled. As far as the whole of the law is concerned, I think that this is an important law, the most important parts of it, security and public credibility remain. The e-book helps in that data can be requested anywhere in the country, with any registrar. So far, he could only be where the birth certificate itself was on paper, and now anywhere in the whole country, that is a great help; and perhaps there are some drawbacks that the fact of marriage cannot now be entered in the birth certificate in calligraphic letters. Electronicization helps us at times, and sometimes makes this world mechanical, but I think that there are some beautiful elements of marriage that may, even if this signature fails, make married couples happy. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I think we may have succeeded in the appeal, which is a legal act to remove misunderstandings. A predator name is a free choice of practice, who wants it, yes, who doesn't, so it's not a problem, it's not a regulation for someone. Several people are asking for the registration of so-called predator names in the order of hundreds, which has not yet been possible. Most importantly, the interests of children are greatly supported by this law, so I ask that the fellow Members and the factions consider supporting this law. With all due respect, Mr President, everyone's patience. Have a nice weekend, everyone.
u2017-05-19-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. Have a good day. Goodbye. [[Meeting ended at 15:16 p.m.]]
