u2017-10-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2013 we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the birth of one of the most famous Hungarian writers, Gárdonyi Géza. On this occasion, the National Assembly declared 17 October - the day of the glorious victory of the defenders of the Eger Castle over the Turkish armies - Gárdonyi Géza Memorial Day on the basis of a parliamentary decision. The purpose of the Memorial Day is to commemorate the writer and this outstanding event in Hungarian history in public education institutions on this day, dealing with the novel "The Stars of Egri." Géza Gárdonyi was born in 1863 in Agárd, under the name of Géza Ziegler. In 1922 he died in Eger, a city where he spent long years away from the world, alienated from people, while portraying human relationships and emotions with a rich lyrical nuance in his works, he authentically portrayed the events of the ages that had passed away to his readers. Buried on one of the castles of Eger, the former residential house is a museum today. The historical novel Egri stars takes place during the Turkish occupation, the siege processed in the work took place in 1552 for nearly five weeks. It was the author's intention to write a novel that, I quote, would not use the past as a scene, but would be a lantern and light up into the interesting darkness of the last centuries. The novel began to be published in 1899 by the Pesti Hírlap, first published in the form of a book in 1901, and since then it has been translated into a number of foreign languages, including Turkish. He made a feature film, comic book, musical and modernized version, all of which contributed to the unbroken popularity of the novel. The work succeeded in fulfilling the creator's intention, because, as Géza Gárdonyi said:. Every good book is a teacher of the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, On this day, let us remember the heroes of the Eger triumph, and the writer who gave them a worthy memory, setting their self - sacrificing patriotism as an example to all of us. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP's group, asked for a pre-meeting speech: the government does not talk about it, but there is! It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2017-10-17-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Today is the World Day against Poverty. According to the latest figures in the European Union, today 2.5 million Hungarians, 26.3 percent of the population, are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. The fact that more than a quarter of Hungarians live in poverty is not natural today. They live better in most places in this area than they do at home. In the Czech Republic, the situation is one of the best, but in Slovakia, there are fewer poor people, and in Poland, the indicator has improved significantly. Compared to 2008, the percentage of people at risk of poverty increased by 2.1 percentage points in Hungary. Not only is living in this country but it is becoming more difficult to live in. A number of sad things draw our attention to the disappointing housing situation, unfortunately not so much of the government. One of them is the huge number of people who are about to lose their homes: there are currently 900 thousand Hungarian citizens involved in an enforcement case. 280 thousand debts are irrecoverable because debtors do not have real estate or movable property to cover enforcement. That's about a million people. More than 30,000 of them are waiting for an auction at home, only this autumn, until the eviction moratorium in December, 1100 families will be put on the street, according to the initial estimate of the wallet. So the government knows that more than a thousand families are being evicted this year, which means thousands of people in total, and it's not doing anything. Housing poverty is a major problem. In the country 550 thousand apartments are empty, twice as in 2010, 320 thousand apartments are not of acceptable quality. 27 percent of the population live in homes that soak, water, and mold. Almost half of those living below the poverty line live this way, 2.6 million people, including 540 thousand children. Where there are three children, the overcrowding is almost certain, according to international comparative data 40 percent of Hungarian homes are like this. For them, the Hungarian state has not offered almost any solution for many years. In recent years, poverty in older people and those over 65 has also increased significantly. This will get worse in the coming years, given that more and more of those who have had a difficult, broken service period in the period after the regime change, children, single-parent families, workers, pensioners, and so slowly half the country. Addressing poverty is an important issue for Europe, but not for Hungary. A month from now, on 17 November, there will be a summit of EU leaders in Gothenburg. In Gothenburg, you will be discussing the practical development of the European Pillar of Social Rights, Mr State Secretary. The aim of the package of proposals is to properly address changes in the world of work and society, all for the creation of a fairer Europe, including a fairer Hungary. That's the only word you don't know. This will be a joint manifesto in which the leaders of the Member States commit to the Community and national principles of future legislation. Unfortunately, the Orbán government, Viktor Orbán, continues to oppose European efforts on social rights, and it goes against all the countries of Europe. When the leaders of Fidesz say no to the social pillar, they say no to decent wages and working conditions, they say no to a European minimum wage above average wage, they say no to free healthcare for all children, they say no to education, decent housing, and they say no to a sufficient quantity and quality of food. Fidesz thus refuses to ensure the acquisition of basic digital skills, saying no to the establishment of social housing and protection against eviction. Fidesz is saying no to new and better regulation of maternity, paternity, parental and nursing leave in order to implement a European unemployment insurance system. Mr. Secretary. Will Viktor Orbán go and vote in favour of this agreement, or will he continue as a single country, only Hungary does not support the eradication of poverty in Europe? Mr. Secretary, this Gárdonyi lantern would be very much needed, too, because it seems to me that there is a great darkness in the government's house. Thank you, Mr. President. [[9.10]]
u2017-10-17-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2017-10-17-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, He gave a high point about what was going on in the House of opposition parties, but I wouldn't hit that, but I was only convinced that you think, Madam honourable Member, that there are parties in Europe that believe that poverty should not be reduced. Because there are parties that have increased poverty, that's for sure. The Hungarian Socialist Party, we know, increased the number of unemployed by 250,000, reduced the total national product by 7 percent in one year, took a month's wages from police officers, took a month's wages from doctors, took a month's wages from nurses, took a month's wages from teachers, took a month's pension from pensioners, took a month's wages from civil servants. We see who they were, of course, raising rent and everything else. So we see that there is a government that doesn't succeed, but it's kind of weird to hear from you that you think there is one party in Europe somewhere that wouldn't work to make fewer poor people, only some people can, this is Fidesz-KDNP, and some people can do the opposite, it was MSZP and SZDSZ. I'm not saying this, but Zsuzsa Ferge is saying this about you. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: You have to read the latest book!]] Your very friendly sociologist, who says back in 2008, that Hungary was the only state in crisis, which did nothing, nothing at all, not a single straw in a match, so that something would happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There's never been a country like this before. Zsuzsa Ferge tells you that there was no other country like the one you led in Hungary at the time, because at least the unemployment benefit or the relief or something else has been extended everywhere. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. That's what your friendly sociologist said. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Book of 16, Secretary of State?]] Your government, and we have to give it the truth, because indeed, what the socialists did to the country, the electorate then rewarded you for being present with such a large faction after a huge governing party, acting here as a smaller or medium-sized opposition party. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You were talking about children, feeding children. I think that everyone here in this Parliament already knows: you have planned for this purpose 29 billion forints. This government will spend 74 billion dollars this year, and next year we will spend 79 billion forints according to our agreed budget. When it comes to talking from the opposition and making promises, the MSZP is doing well. This has been practiced, but when it comes to government action, for some reason they spend even less than half the time on children's meals than Fidesz-KDNP spends this year, and next year we will increase it. As you privatize textbook producers, this increases textbook prices, and Fidesz-KDNP provides free textbooks to all families up to 1-9. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Their hair is on fire from textbooks!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You talk about what your representatives in Brussels say, what they don't say, what you say in Parliament, but your actions speak much more clearly and louder about what they do. Home-building? We remember, Péter Medgyessy, 2002, the home creation program is a good program, we will extend it. What was the result? It was liquidated in two years. What would they do after 2018 if they had the chance? In the same way, the current system of COS would obviously be abolished. Well, it's been liquidated, people have been driven into foreign currency lending, and thousands, tens of thousands of families, or perhaps hundreds of thousands of people, are still moaning on the burden of this, your irresponsibleness. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has launched the family's home-building discount, the CSOK, and you know it now, because there have been a lot of cases here in Parliament, too, which has so much to do with building homes that today you can hardly find carpenters, masons, carpenters, especially an entire building team who can build a family house. They can ask for a higher and higher price, as the demand for home creation is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There wasn't much of a time when families were about to start setting up homes like the last one or two years. If you look at how many applications have been accepted, you can see that the number of applications received is 53,000, and the value of these applications is well over 100 billion forints now. We can see that there is a huge increase in the number of new housing permits. For example, if you look at the largest increase in Budapest, the surplus is 195 percent, almost three times, 184 percent in cities with county rights, 130 percent in other cities, but even in villages, the number of new housing permits and simple announcements increased by 78 percent, because people finally got the opportunity to start building houses, building family houses. You mentioned the various poverty indicators here, and you forgot to tell me one thing, to be more precise: you used a very clever trick, because you did not compare the current situation to 2010 or to 2011-12, but to a much earlier date, even compared to the dates at the waist and not at the end of socialist governance; because if you had compared it, Madam honourable Member, you could see that the so-called serious financial depriviation rate, which is such a sociological calculation, but also read in the Eurostat report quoted by you, has decreased its value in the last four to five years to such a degree that 1.2 million people have not been affected by severe material depriviation in Hungary. Only you obviously did not compare a number which is the end of your governance and the current period, but the middle of your governance and a current period. You can't fool people with tricks like that. Today, those who want to work can find work much more easily, so they are much less vulnerable to poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-10-17-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Rig Lajos, Jobbik, spoke before the agenda, with the title.
u2017-10-17-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A number of such ratios could have been listed in the choice of the title. It could have been 5:1 or 30:2. This is about the constant change in CPR methodology. Periodically, the Resuscitation Society will review the proportions of the ratio that is appropriate for a layman to be able to revive an individual in a state of clinical death. My speech was given yesterday, because on October 16th we celebrated or held the World Day of Resurrection. For the fifth time in Hungary, this day will be held at the invitation of the European Resuscitation Council. In many places, including my constituency, Tapolca, Ajkán and Sümegen, laymen could learn the so-called science of resuscitation with the help of rescue workers, nurses and doctors and rescue officers. Surprising numbers are when one of our countrymen is suddenly dying of heart death in Hungary every 30 minutes. Another surprising number: About two thirds of these could be resuscitated if they started at the right time, so they start CPR in the first 3-5 minutes, and there are laymen who start CPR. Everyone in Hungary knows that if an individual gets sick in public areas, not everyone is able and able to perform this task, they will wait for the ambulance to arrive, but everyone knows that the ambulance cannot be everywhere in the first 3-5 minutes, the average time of arrival is 15-20 minutes, and this is mainly in rural areas. They launched a new application, which - I think - is a very useful application, the Heart City app. This shows that if there is a sickness in a public area, the first layman who has these abilities will be directed there. It shows where the first defibrillator is available in public areas, shopping centers or sports centers, making it easier for ambulances and resuscitation teams to work, giving them the chance to live, giving them the chance to survive in a healthy way. I think it's a very good app. [[9.20]] I recommend to my fellow Members that they download and apply it or go to a course in which they can learn this so-called science in an hour. But let's see who the instructors are at these rescue stations. Paramedics, paramedics who do this on their own time. During yesterday, at national level, I believe that thousands of nurses and paramedics have helped learn from our fellow countrymen who have learned this intervention. Consider their professional, moral, and material appreciation. The financial appreciation: everyone knows that about 180 thousand forints of net salary will be taken home by an ambulance nurse. In Slovakia it is EUR 550 thousand, and in Transylvania a nurse with the same qualifications earns EUR 1100. Their moral appreciation: everyone knows that and on the news we hear that the paramedics are not completely safe. More and more in recent times, it has been said that when they arrive in public areas, they are not welcomed, as in the old period, but are being treated and even physically abused by paramedics. This must be stopped immediately, for they are going there to save life. Their professional appreciation: I have spoken to a lot of nurses who have been working for the ambulance service for 30-35 years. When they entered this organization, this workplace, they gave their heads to do this noble profession, they didn't need a diploma, they had enough a professional worker's certificate, and they received the same nursing and nursing training. They'd like to go to college now, but they're gonna need a GED for OKJ. There are many who cannot do this three or four years before they retire. I think it could be done in fairness. I have also sat down on several occasions with Mr Director-General, the former and the current Director-General. I think they're looking for a way to do this, but they're not looking for it, they're trying to create it, they're doing it and they're trying to grow, they're trying to learn for higher wages, and they're looking for higher recognition. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2017-10-17-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you so much for praising this new app, Heart City. This is typically what the Internet community technologies have been developed for, because if there is someone in the area within a 500-meter radius in a resuscitation situation and can run there, can hurry there, can signal to the emergency services that they are on their way, they are on their way, and they can still receive instructions, let us trust that this app can actually save lives or save lives of full value in the coming years. This has been downloaded by thousands, and we trust more will. I think we should promote that, too. Thank you all for helping us resuscitation techniques for each and every one of us to learn or practice again. This will really save lives later, and we can finally see such a specific benefit of digital technology and help each other. I also fully agree with Mr President that adequate working conditions must be guaranteed for ambulances, on the one hand, and that both material and moral respect should be increased in their direction. If we look at the share of the rescue service in the health budget in 2010, we can see that this was HUF 22.5 billion, which is HUF 39.9 billion in the next year's budget. So the budget for saving increased from 22 to 39 billion forints. This is a 76 per cent increase, much higher than inflation, much higher than GDP growth, because this includes health wage increases and, of course, includes new ambulance purchases, as we have made great improvements in recent years. Let us not forget that, in addition to the installation of 500 new ambulances, 30 new rescue stations have been established and 97 rescue stations have been renewed. It is also very important to ask what kind of income can be expected by those who work in the rescue and have made comparisons here. Allow me to make the same comparisons as the average number of people who worked in the rescue in 2012 and how much they earn in 2018, when they started last year, this year continues, and next year it means a double increase for the paramedics - and next year the health pay increase will continue, and an extra 10 percent increase for the employees of OMSZ will continue next year. One ambulance driver made 180 thousand forints in 2012, he will earn 307,000 forints next year. The average salary of the rescue care provider was 185 thousand forints in 2012, and he will earn 340 thousand forints from 1 January. The average wage of a paramedic you referred to, Congressman, was 242 thousand forints at the beginning of our administration, and next year, at the end of our two government cycles, you will earn 460,000 forints instead of 242 thousand forints. A paramedic's average wage at the beginning of our government was 390,000 forints, which will rise from 390,000 to 645 thousand forints by the end of the second phase of our government, by 1 January next year. We will work to cover further increases. At the next stage of this, we even committed to an 8 percent increase by 2019. That's what the government's gonna be working on. But in addition, I say that this is a result that we managed to achieve, which also shows financial appreciation for those working in rescue. Fortunately, in Hungary, the average wage increase is now above 10% in one year, if I look at the numbers of the last 12 months, however these increases show that the government appreciates the work of the rescue workers. And obviously we're also trying to help you with a promotional system and qualification, either with a two-year accelerated and facilitated graduation opportunity, or in other ways, as you mentioned. In all cases, we also support further training, and we also try to ensure daily conditions for everyone in the area of working clothes, cleaning work clothes. These are not just promises, because behind them is the surplus that came in the rescue, which I mentioned at the beginning, from HUF 22 billion to HUF 39 billion. These are already additional items that can really help rescue workers. And it is also important where they take patients who are being transported from the street or from somewhere else in the ambulance. There are 77 hospitals that have been renovated in recent years, and it is also important that 54 clinics have been built in addition to 30 new rescue stations, and this year the development of 17 hospitals in Budapest and 6 hospitals in Pest County is started from 40 billion forints, half in instruments and half in planning later major developments. This can also help save workers. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-17-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, also submitted a statement before the agenda. Is that how the good state is built? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-17-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The very important fact of the speech is that last week we learned that another HUF 11 billion was awarded to a national and public service university on its behalf, and that this university is now supported by HUF 71 billion, which I would call a party university. They received HUF 31 billion for demolition and construction work and HUF 29 billion for a project called "Good State" and received an extra HUF 11 billion for park construction and additional work. Looks like the previous constructions weren't enough for 31 billion forints. In principle, the fact that a university receives a lot of money could actually be a good thing, the big problem is that not all universities get so much, and the big problem is that when we look at what these money has gone to, we'd rather talk about missed opportunities, squandering, or even cheating treatments than be happy about how much money went to high school. There are two groups, as I said before, of these money. One of them is luxury investments. Lovarda, shooting range, fencing hall was built for a great deal of money and, of course, to the government with the execution of friendly builders. These costs are constantly increasing. Once again, 31 billion forints was not enough, they received 11 billion forints for additional work. These are horriable money. If you think about what it could have been spent on, I think we could have just found a solution to this: building colleges. [[9.30]] Everyone knows that now not only in Budapest, but also in university cities, rent prices are skyrocketing, and it is a reality and reality that someone will not be able to learn because, let's say, their family cannot pay the cost of living caused by these increased rent prices among others. You can calculate quickly how to spend 11 billion forints. If we calculate a cost of roughly HUF 300,000, this could mean a total of 36 thousand square meters of college. And if we were about to play ball, we could say that we could have worked out the housing of 2,500 students a year. Even more painful is the so-called "Good State" project, which is paid with EU funds and where the investigators of the European Union are already investigating and asking very serious and very confusing questions to the government. The defense of the university was that out of this HUF 31 billion, they would hold a 30-hour course for 81,000 state employees - this is the defense. However, even here, if we do a very simple division and multiplication, this means that this 30-hour education will cost almost 400 thousand forints per employee. That's a pretty amazing number. We can also say that these people will spend 12,000 forints an hour on the EU's money to educate them. When we looked at how this worked out, we could only look at it at random because we didn't get all the contracts, then we saw that the university was paying horriable rents to government offices, for example, 8 thousand forints per square meter for administrative premises. Or we have also seen that more than once companies are entrusted with literally the same task of conducting studies. And we have seen such things as paying instructors for studies already written, but then, according to our internal information, the public salary of the instructors is reduced. Here, too, it is very easy to see how this 31 billion could be used well, and scholarships could be paid. This HUF 31 billion is HUF 31,000 times 1 million, and could be spent usefully. But what you guys are doing is the missed zigzag and the unexploited huge opportunity, which is a historical crime. After all, the money that the European Union is giving to our future is being wasted now, in a few years, giving to education, teaching, in such a way that the entrepreneurs close to you and the alibi enterprises close to you will benefit. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-17-10	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2017-10-17-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In 2010, when it comes to universities, the most common problem arose is that the previous government dragged it into PPP schemes, forced universities, the burdens of which will be moaned for decades. Maybe the one with a parent studying in the classroom, and then his kid's gonna pay that classroom's PPP lease fee, that kind of fee, that kind of fee. The entire Hungarian higher education has been taxed by the construction of buildings, whether in rural colleges or in other buildings, which were not really needed by the relevant higher education institution, with external funding, but who needed these PPPs very much. It was an important task to replace them, and today we can really talk about where and how the university is developing, not in a PPP scheme, but in public money. Because, honourable Member, you can see improvements not only at the National University of Public Service; if you go to Szeged, you can go to Pécs, go to Debrecen, you can see developments of such or similar dimensions everywhere. What will happen at the University of Debrecen, or what will be done in Szeged by building or renovating new building wings, connecting economic operators to those involved in research and development at the University of Debrecen, or by building a new training centre for foreign language courses in Pécs, all of which show that Hungarian higher education can develop on a very large scale both in Budapest and in the countryside. And indeed, the National University of Public Service is one of them, because we believe that a state does need a university education that provides modern staff with modern, modern knowledge and a public service approach, whether as an administrator or as a leader. This is necessary to the most professional degree. Not only do we need what we support by the way, whether with scholarships, excellence programmes and others, to create the best-performing IT or good economics, legal and medical training, and to get high-quality professionals out of these trainings, but also the state needs the best able professionals in the state to get the best trainings, because this is how the country can be competitive. Without a competitive public administration, there is no competitive country, a competitive state, and a very important part of this training. The fact that he calls the university a party university from which even a candidate for a self-proclaimed prime minister of opposition cooperation has been removed is very amusing. Obviously, with such nice little turns in Ron Werber, you can say that in this way, by the way, it is a party university, but, honourable Member, there you will find all kinds of colors, and obviously also colorless in a political sense, if you turn around the National University of Public Service and not only pursue your policy with papers, but also perhaps look into people's faces. So, besides that, not only the walls, buildings, training is important for the government, but in 2016 we launched a wage increase programme in higher education, and this will continue next year. In 2016, there was an increase of 15 percent, this was completed by an additional 5 percent this year, and an additional 5 percent cover can be found in the 2018 budget. Thus, we also try to increase the wages of the workers there to a noticeable extent every year. Honourable Congressman, I don't know what's wrong with the University of Public Service hiring an office or training room from a government office. I think that's what an important aspect of a good state is that what can be costed is spent within the state. The State spends its money not on overpriced external, private or foreign-owned providers, but on what the State can use within the State, why not use it. Thus, the government office also has better use of space, own income, and spent this money within public finances, and obviously then increases the government office's operating and renovation revenues. You referred to the fact that EU investigators would come here and ask unpleasant questions. Honourable Congressman, EU investigators are one of your main themes, your main attack direction. They went through the little train up on the road, and there was nothing wrong with it. It was found that the money was spent for what it was given, that it was properly spent, and that the indicators were not only fulfilled, but that they were overachiever. They were called here, the whole story was a huge play-off to come here and present one of the biggest corruption cases in Hungary. And what did it become? It's like blowing it out of a balloon with a needle - nothing, honourable Member. All your accusations are like that, because neither your friends in Brussels nor any of your charges in the D.A.'s office have stopped, just and exclusively the case of subway 4. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-17-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has also applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Bet: Remaining." You have the floor, Your Honour.
u2017-10-17-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at the second demographic forum in Budapest this spring that it is important to say that the restoration of natural reproduction is a national matter. It's not a national matter, it's a national case. It is also a European matter, not a European matter, but a European matter. It is therefore the most important national and the most important European issue when we talk about the demographic situation and the challenge. This subject, without any exaggeration or rhetoric, is at stake. The government and the governing parties saw and saw the solution not in the instrument of immigration, but in the reinforcement and support of Hungarian families, unlike left-wing liberal parties. [[9.40]] From 2010 onwards, the Orbán governments have implemented a paradigm shift in family support and state social policy. We have developed a complex support system over the last seven years, which has led to major successes: marriage and birth rates are increasing, abortions are falling, and fertility rates have increased from 1.26 to 1.49. All these results indicate that we are going in the right direction. But we know that we still have a lot to do to ensure that the desired children are born in Hungary. In order to listen to the opinion of the most affected age group, the KDNP faction has carried out a representative research among the 35-44 age groups, representing a group of 1.6 million people. Dear Parliament, According to research, material security often appears as an obstacle to the birth of children. At the same time, it is typical that the least children are born where financial security is greatest. Twenty-five percent of respondents, nearly 400 000 people in total, want to have children, regardless of whether they already have children or not. The survey also showed that one third of those involved do not live in any relationship, and 41 percent do not have children. More than a quarter of respondents, 28 percent, said that work and family coordination were significant problems for them. Those who feel that their workplace is fine have a positive attitude on the part of the employer, many have indicated that they are more open to further childbearing. In the survey, 33 percent of respondents identified a stable relationship as a child-bearing factor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, a number of measures have been taken, which have helped to resolve this great dilemma, namely the coordination of work and family. Such were atypical employment methods, teleworking, and programmes that introduced part-time work. These were the development of kindergarten and daycare; such was the establishment of a family tax system linked to income; this was linked to the introduction of an action plan for the protection of jobs and the introduction of a benefit for family housing; such was the expansion, strengthening of the child and the extra introduction of the ged. Also, the tax relief of the first married people contributed to this programme; and it meant a great deal, I think, to support the church and civil programs that helped to build a community. Based on all this, we can say that the government has made a historic turn in this area over the last seven years and has started in the right direction. But we also see that in the long term, we need to deepen and complete a predictable, family-friendly environment with a set of more complex and targeted programmes. In this great work, the government can always count on KDNP's cooperation and support. The stakes are, therefore, the moral imperialist that addresses our common responsibility, as our Prince Gábor Bethlen said:. We must act in such a way that we remain. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-17-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-17-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The topic that he spoke about must be the most important issue in both the Hungarian Parliament and in almost every Central European or Western Parliament, since Europe is a continent that is no longer an old continent, but is slowly a grandpa continent, because gradually fewer and fewer children are born in European families, and ageing or youth unemployment in Western Europe is a growing and growing situation. There are those who give the wrong answers, this is the programme of resettlement; and some people give good answers: we believe that this is Hungary, who trusts Hungarian families and tries to support Hungarian families. We had some ground to climb, because in 2010 Hungary had a low point in the vision of families or confidence in the future. Childbearing was so low, it wasn't exactly an example. You also pointed out that in 2010, this figure was 1.25, so an average pair had an average of 1.25, so there was only one child. The desired level for self-preservation, i.e. survival, is 2.1. This was raised to 1,49, which is nearly a fifth increase in 7-8 years. But if we look back to the period before 2010, there was a 4 percent decrease. There's an increase of nearly 20 percent, there's a decrease of 4 percent. This, if it specifically shows the number of live births, was an increase from 90 335 to 93 063. We are very proud of the fact that Hungarian families are now much more confident about the future, because the child's commitment means, on the one hand, selflessness, community commitment and trust in the future. It is important that there is also an increase in marriages that you mentioned. In 2010, 35 520 marriages were married, while now they have reached 46 percent higher levels. We hope that this year there may be more, as they have already married 21,000 in Hungary in the first half of the year. You referred to the reduction in the number of abortions: from 40 449 to 30 349, the number of abortions decreased by one quarter in Hungarian. Among other things, the government can serve families with financial help. One of the signs of this growing aid is that while this level was much lower in 2010 and, according to surveys in the European Union, 2.5 per cent of GDP is spent on family support, our budget for next year already targets 4.8 per cent of GDP for family support purposes. If I add up the funds of the last few years, then we can see that the subsidies in money - only in money - that we provide to families, and the family benefits together have left the families with HUF 1700 billion in eight years, which may not even be an understandable figure. But what I do know is that if I project the positive changes in the last eight years - if I count next year's budget - to an average of one family, this represents an extra source of HUF 1 million 558 thousand per family. And how much the families save by reducing their overhead costs, you can add them to each other. By means of family support, we left more than HUF 1.5 million at the average Hungarian family. That's one of the stakes of the election. If we go back to the policy that the opposition is declaring, then the families would now be back by 1.5 million forints. It has an important message value that the internal structure of family support has also changed. We have also said that we support those who have children and want to work in the first place. Therefore, within family support, the proportion of these two, work-based and non-work-related, has changed from this growing cake - the growing cake. In 2010, 24 percent of family support was committed to work, so it required activity on the part of the family, which is now rising to 58 percent by 2018. So from less than a quarter to more than 50 percent, the internal share of family support that is tied to work is rising. In this way, we encourage everyone to have a child and to be able to take a job. Obviously, this can still be encouraged by reducing the tax burden. Family tax and contribution benefits are successful, since 95 percent of families can use them. This is the discount that gets to most families. And let me just say one more thing: in the job protection action plan, we gave special contributions to those who employ mothers after childbirth at work. On average, we were able to help 38,000 mothers, 38,000 families each year, and we spent HUF 39 billion on returning to work. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] be as smooth as possible and not unemployed as possible after three years of hard work, or for whom how many years of work. [[The president's ringing again.]] the mothers after having the baby. That was an important achievement. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-17-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Németh, from the Fidesz Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The Council of Europe also spoke in favour of Transcarpathian Hungarians. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission. [[9.50]]
u2017-10-17-17	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On 5 September, the Ukrainian Parliament adopted the Education Act. However, the good news is that on 12 October the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted its emergency resolution stating that European standards are not in line with the Ukrainian Education Act and that it is a serious step backwards in the area of minority rights. I think that, in terms of both the Council of Europe and the standards of the European Union, this is a key issue, that the measures taken by the Member States are a step backwards or not in terms of human rights or minority rights. After the Council of Europe's parliamentary assembly, we hope that the other body of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, will also say that the Ukrainian law is not in line with European standards, and we also hope that the European Union and the Association Council, which will meet on the basis of the Ukrainian Association Agreement, will reach similar conclusions. We also hope that the European Union's Eastern Partnership Summit will reach this conclusion. So we expect the Council of Europe and the European Union to stand up for Transcarpathian Hungarians in the same way as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Some Ukrainian politicians often say that Hungary and Romania are on Russia's side by criticising the Ukrainian educational law. I think it's a distortion, an approach we can't just walk away from. Hungary has always stood up for the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country, starting from the formation of Ukraine, so Hungary is acting now. At the same time, we believe that Ukraine has no interest in creating a tense relationship with its Western neighbours if it has a tense war relationship with Russia. Because not only Hungary, Romania, but all countries in the western neighbourhood of Ukraine have minorities in Ukraine, thus generating tensions in the Polish context, in the Slovak context, in the Bulgarian context. I might add that the list is, unfortunately, rather long. We believe that Ukraine has no interest in creating a tense situation with its neighbours in the EU and NATO. If it is in anyone's interest, it is precisely in Russia's interest to create such a tense situation at the western borders of Ukraine. We are confident that Ukraine will recognise this because we see Ukraine's long-term position in Central Europe. Only Ukraine can make this Central European future impossible, and we are trying to prevent Ukraine from doing so. Ukraine has a place in the families of Central European countries. Finally, the question is whether there is a solution in the current situation: I think that there is a solution. Above all, dialogue would be the solution. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian government has failed to hold appropriate consultations with the professional organisation of Transcarpathian Hungarians, KMPSZ and KMKSZ, but it has not taken advantage of the mechanisms contained in the basic agreement, nor has it conducted appropriate diplomatic consultations with Romania or Hungary. There has been a follow-up dialogue. I am pleased that last week, at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I was able to meet the Ukrainian Minister of Education as Head of the Hungarian Delegation, and I also hope that the ministerial level dialogue launched by Minister Klimkin will continue here in Hungary, and that the negotiation that Zoltán Balog will conduct in Kiev will be effective in the coming days. The minority language education system and the effective education of the Ukrainian language, the state language, can be brought into line. We don't see the difference between the two, there are very serious possibilities here. At the same time, I would like to lay down that we regard it as a principle that the saving of minority language education is an essential part of minority existence and minority autonomy, and that, of course, can be part of an effective education of state language. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-17-18	Thank you, committee president Zsolt Németh. Dear Parliament, The Government's position will be presented by Secretary of State István Arrowmaker.
u2017-10-17-19	Thank you. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Until now, every minority in Ukraine has had the right to learn freely in their mother tongue from kindergarten to university. Unfortunately, the educational law, which was recently adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament, is essentially withdrawing this right over the age of 10, so that the 4th grade of primary school can virtually cease to be a native language education. As the Member mentioned, the focus of the Ukrainian party's argument is to promote the knowledge of the language of the state, but, as you have stated, the two are not in fact related, since, as has been said, almost ten years ago, Hungarian professional organisations in Transcarpathia, teachers' organisations have argued that the methodology and method of teaching the Ukrainian language is not suitable for students with non-Ukrainian mother tongue to master this properly. Unfortunately, however, the educational authorities, the politicians, have constantly ignored this. So the goal would indeed be to develop an educational method instead of a bad educational law that will help non-Ukrainian people to learn Ukrainian properly. In Transcarpathia, there are 71 schools where Hungarian education takes place. These institutions were practically threatened by the new law. There is a fear that teachers who teach in these schools will be laid off, and young Hungarians in Transcarpathia will be led to loss of identity by the new law, which significantly devalues the value and possibilities of using their mother tongue. The government's fundamental position is that in matters relating to Hungarians across the border, we do what Hungarians in Transcarpathia and Hungarians in general are asking in this case. So as long as the local Hungarian community feels that they are not satisfied with the situation, we do not say that it is all right. If they ask us not to back down, we won't back down. So, until this issue is resolved, Hungary continues to take the view that it does not support the Ukrainian initiatives or the matters that are important to Ukraine that are presented at any forum. So until this situation is resolved, in this debate we are clearly voting for the Transcarpathian Hungarians. Hungary initiated yesterday at the meeting of EU Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg on 16 October to revise the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement, as we believe that Ukraine has seriously violated Article 4 of this Agreement. Point 4. We expect the European Union to put this issue on the agenda at the meeting of the Association Council in December, as the Association Agreement also states that Ukraine has an obligation to protect and strengthen minority rights, but instead, we believe that they are being grossly violated at the moment. The violation of the Association Agreement could entail sanctions, as this agreement itself is subject to a free trade agreement which has opened up EU markets for Ukraine. Yesterday's meeting was a welcome experience that neither High Representative Federica Mogherini nor Johannes Hahn, Commissioner for Neighbourhood Policy and Accession Negotiations, raised any objections to the Hungarian proposal, and since these agenda proposals are presented by the EU Commission, we have hope and are preparing for the Ukrainian Education Act to be on the agenda at the Association Council meeting in December. Finally, I would like to say that we are still open to any consultation on a bilateral basis, but an important prerequisite for this is that Ukraine withdraws or suspends parts of the educational law that are detrimental to minorities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[10.00]]
u2017-10-17-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Arrowmaker. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. XXV of 2017 amending Act No. a joint debate on the proposal to amend law in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/17819. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-10-17-21	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education. XXV of 2017 amending Act No. Law has caused long-lost waves, anger. The law was essentially under political fire: it was attacked before the Constitutional Court, it was examined by the Venice Commission, the European Commission, and it was also the subject of political debate in the European Parliament. The arguments before these bodies are only seemingly legal, in fact of a political nature, and we do not yet have such a law, which would have been of such interest, even the adoption of the Fundamental Law has not triggered such a violent political reaction. For me, however, as Minister of Justice, it is primarily a matter of law, which is why I agreed to keep the exposé. According to Article X (1) of the Fundamental Law, the organisational framework of higher education institutions, such as the conditions for establishment, is laid down by law. The regulations adopted by the spring amendment apply equally to everyone, the main purpose of the law was to ensure transparency for all higher education institutions operating in Hungary, so I cannot legally interpret the name lex CEU. The regulation created is one that meets the requirement of non-discrimination and covers all foreign higher education institutions operating in Hungary. The spring amendment thus ensured transparency while also meeting the most important requirements of the rule of law. Education, higher education is a national issue, there are no uniform European models, Member States have a high degree of freedom to determine the conditions for the operation of foreign higher education institutions. Article 165 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union it cannot be established that the Union has any competence to determine the conditions for the operation of higher education institutions. The establishment and operation of national education and training systems falls within the competence of the EU Member States. Pursuant to Article E (2) of the Fundamental Law, Hungary has not given this competence to the European Union. I can support the perception of the freedom of national legislation in line with EU treaties with the following examples. In Spain, a foreign higher education institution cannot start a higher education activity without providing an actual education programme in its country of origin. In the Netherlands, in principle, only those higher education institutions whose primary establishments are located in the EEA may use the name of the university and the college for applied sciences. In Italy, it is not possible for a foreign higher education institution which does not provide education programmes in its country of origin and therefore does not carry out educational activities. In France, foreign higher education institutions can operate only within the framework of private higher education institutions and cannot use the name of the université and the issue of diplomas is a state monopoly. The Venice Committee also stated in point 73 of its opinion and point 121 of its summary that each State has a great deal of room for manoeuvre as to the way in which the operating conditions of higher education institutions are regulated. The Venice Commission pointed out in paragraph 63 of the opinion of the Hungarian legislation that its aim is legitimate, the establishment of clear legal frameworks is a legitimate objective, the regulation ensures greater transparency in order to guarantee the quality of education and protect future students. In point 62 of the opinion of the Venice Commission, it also acknowledged that there are also states in which there are no foreign universities at all, but what is more important: it also acknowledged that Hungary has the right to establish and review from time to time the rules governing foreign higher education institutions in its territory. During the spring amendment, the legislator exercised this freedom. Honourable Members, I am convinced that the debate must take place on a legal and diplomatic level. The government was open to finding a solution in order to ensure that the spring amendments for transparency could be made, foreign higher education institutions that really intend to operate in Hungary could carry out such activities if the conditions were met. For this reason, the Committee headed by the Secretary of State, Mr Christopher Altusz, with the participation of the EMMI, the CCI and the IM, was formed, among other things, to carry out the negotiations. In Hungary, everyone must comply with the laws, there is no one who is only a little or almost all the same. In point 63 of the opinion, the Venice Commission clearly stated that, from the point of view of foreign universities that are not currently training in Hungary, the rules introduced by the spring amendment of the National Higher Education Act do not conflict with European standards and standards. Overall, the Venice Commission found the provisions it examined to be in line with European expectations. However, according to points 123 to 124 of its summary opinion, they should not be applied to existing universities. According to the Hungarian Government's firm position, Hungarian laws did not distinguish between institutions of the past and of the future, only the right time should be allowed to meet the conditions. In my view, not only would it be discriminatory, but it would actually prevent transparency, but there is no doubt that all those in this House attach a high priority to transparency. Dear House, The Government believes that no one can object to transparent operation, not even the CEU which, as recognised in point 28 of the opinion of the Venice Commission, operates in an organisational model that does not exist anywhere else in Europe. In my personal opinion, the organization and operation of a number of other universities with an identity, from Beirut to Paris, even from Budapest, is easily transparent. When creating the spring amendment, the government could rightly trust that the 28 higher education institutions concerned had sufficient time to prepare. The negotiations leading to the agreements started almost immediately, and were largely successful, for example, the Act declaring an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Maryland was published in the Hungarian Gazette of 12 October 2017. This makes it possible for American McDaniel College to continue operating in Budapest. In the case of the United States of America, the legal conditions for prior agreement provided for by the spring amendment were also notified to the European Commission on 6 October 2017. Interstate negotiations are also ongoing on the preparation of international contracts for other foreign higher education institutions. In the resolution of the Presidency of the Hungarian Rector Conference, in order to give all stakeholders the time to meet the conditions, it proposed a longer period of preparation. This resolution was explicitly welcomed in point 76 of the opinion of the Venice Commission, and I believe that an appropriate extension of the deadlines would contribute to the effectiveness of the negotiations. On this basis, and in order to ensure a satisfactory outcome for all stakeholders, the Government proposes to extend the deadlines. As a lawyer, it is incomprehensible to me that the paradoxical situation is that those who are actually interested in the agreement, rather than welcoming this bill, are now dealing with ferocious criticism. I am convinced that this bill will provide a satisfactory answer to all the arguments raised during the debate, and that the subsequent decision of the Constitutional Court, which I hope will be taken within a reasonable period of time, will also contribute to a satisfactory final settlement of the dispute. [[10.10]] I trust that intelligent dialogue and that we will find solutions to all open issues by putting aside unnecessary political impulses. I ask this House, with its vote in favour, to contribute to the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-22	Thank you, Minister Trócsányi. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2017-10-17-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 16 October the House Rule 62. On the basis of the rules applicable to the exceptional procedure, the CCIV of 2011 on national higher education discussed it. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. XXV of 2017 amending Act No. T/1781 on the amendment of Act T/1781 The Committee presented a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 22 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes the motion of the Legislative Committee, which contains technical clarification. Dear House, The majority of the Committee considers that, in view of the opinion adopted by the Venice Commission at its meeting on 6 October 2017, it is appropriate to amend the Higher Education Act, i.e. to extend the deadline for the required obligations, which ensures that all foreign higher education institutions can fully comply with the legislation. The amendment of the Higher Education Act adopted in spring laid down predictable, clear and affordable conditions. I cannot stress that these conditions cover all higher education institutions active in Hungary. Following the adoption of the bill before us, Central European University, i.e. CEU, can fulfil the new conditions until 1 January 2019 instead of 1 January 2018. This will give you a one-year extension to discharge, which will actually facilitate compliance. This requires, on the one hand, that they also have a foreign seat, where they carry out State-approved actual training, and, on the other hand, that there should be an interstate agreement on their operation in Hungary. I note that the deadline of 1 January 2018 was clearly sufficient for higher education institutions that turned to the Government on the merits of the agreement instead of the unnecessary political debate and the sharpening of the conflict. As opposed to CEU, several other institutions, such as McDaniel College Budapest, were able to meet the conditions by the deadline. I hope that all those concerned will be able to adapt to the new deadline, since Hungarian legislation is binding on everyone without exception. I need your support for this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-24	Thank you very much, Mr Répássy Róbert. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2017-10-17-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to ask the President, at some point, to inform the Speaker that, at the very least, we find it unacceptable that the Minister of Justice is now doing an exercise in telling his exposé and then not participating in the debate in Parliament, nor is he curious about what his lead speakers are saying to the parliamentary factions. I believe that it is not a violation of the authority of Parliament that, let us say, they present a sign so as not to sign it. It is a violation of Parliament's authority when the minister treats it this way and thus takes up parliamentary operations to say that he has made the revelation, but he does not want to know what the individual factions think of the law that he has put forward. I find this unacceptable, Mr President, so I would ask you to signal this to the House's leadership, to tell the government that there has been a criticism here. I believe that other fellow Members agree. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] As far as the amendment is concerned, and, of course, I would like to refer essentially to what was said in the Commission's debate. Firstly, in response to the Minister, I am doing this in the Commission's presentation because these arguments also appeared at the meeting: there cannot be a debate on the legal side, the basis of which is a legislative proposal that is motivated by an actual policy. In other words, the legislator's intention is not of a legal nature at all, but of a political nature. At times like this, expecting a legal debate to take place, I think it's not an illusion, it's stupid. The term lex CEU, which you did not understand, and you say that you cannot read legally, well, I agree with that, and that was the debate at the committee meeting. It doesn't have to be interpreted legally, but politically. It must be treated and interpreted as part of the government's ambitions to silence any institution or word contrary to the government's ideology, whether they are civilians or an educational institution. Of course, we can argue about the legal background of what László Trócsányi has done now, but this was not the subject of the debate in committee, but how and how a government can afford it or not to try to make a higher education institution impossible for political reasons. He said, Minister - and that was also mentioned in the debate - that the laws must be followed by everyone. Yes, I would like to send a message to Minister through the minutes, because he is not here, or through Secretary of State, that yes, the laws that we have made today must be observed, but it is quite difficult to expect a law to be enforced from someone that has not yet been passed by Parliament. Because that's what you would have expected from the CEU. They expect him to comply with a provision that has not yet been passed as a law, and they accuse him of not complying with it. Well, that's an absurd thing I think I can easily explain to my five-year-old daughter, and she'll understand. The other, returning to the committee meeting, said that the government's ambition was not a gesture at all. It is not a gesture because he did not want to agree with the CEU, he did not want to agree with them, because many of his leaders told the CEU that, not only did the government not contact them, but when they were looking for the government, they did not get an appointment. This has been said publicly, obviously, that if you say otherwise, someone on this subject is not telling the truth. Speaking of Minister Trocsányi's legal background, I would like to say a few words, as I did at the committee meeting. So, this is not a gesture from your side, but it is about the fact that in an infringement procedure against Hungary in this case, this matter would have been brought before the European Court of Justice in about two weeks' time, because it should have been answered by then. For a guy like you, you're gonna bring in a law like that, see if you can get out of court with this. If I am right, then this is not a gesture, but their own protection, they are afraid that the court will pass a rescinding judgment on Hungary again, as it has done almost all the time in the previous cases. I would like to say that even the representative of Jobbik has spoken to him and, of course, when presenting the minority opinion, I also undertake to present this to you. According to Jobbik, it is not about whether someone - and so far I share their position perfectly - agrees with the spirit of the CEU, because it is about another political intention, Mr Szilágyi, who said that personalised legislation is taking place, which may affect others, but, if you like, this side effect, positive or negative side effect of the law, because that was not what it was about, that was not the legislative intention, but that CEU was put in an impossible situation, which you call only the Soros University, for the sake of simplicity. On this line of thought, Mr Szilágyi arrived at the committee meeting after a long discussion, calling those who had received the Soros Scholarship at the time, namely Viktor Orbán or László Kövér, specifically Satan babies. [[10.20]] Well, that did shed some light on the committee meeting, but there is so much truth to it that it is that those who have received the scholarship from György Soros' foundation are the ones whose government spokesperson has graduated and received a degree from this university, and I could continue the line. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, at the committee's meeting, it was the strong position expressed by the opposition representatives that there is no gesture, good intentions, no proposal placed on the basis of law, but that there is a proposal made on a political basis. And if you ask why we do not agree that the deadline is extending, my fellow Members, because this has never been our main criticism of the law, but that it exists at all. That is why we have tabled as a motion for separate representatives a proposal to abolish this proposal, and we have also said so at the committee meeting [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are not going to support this, but we are also asking you to support it. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2017-10-17-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will grant your request, but I would ask you to inform your group leader, and at the House Committee meeting, when you are there, Mr Speaker, then make the request you have made. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Thank you, Mr. President.]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are 30-30 minutes for the factions and 8 minutes for the independent Members. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. In the order of the candidates, I give the floor to the political groups, first to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[István Szávay from the pulpitus rushes to his place. On Dr. István Hiller's signal:]] In the meantime, if you stop for a moment, did Vice President Hiller apply to be the lead speaker? [[Dr. István Hiller: Yes.]] Yeah. Then we'll switch, and I'm sorry, but here on the preliminary list, his name wasn't on the list, and Vice President Hiller indicated it in hindsight. So I give the floor to Vice-President Hiller, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, and I apologise to the notary.
u2017-10-17-27	Mr President, Members of the Council and Members of the Council, Your Honour, Secretary of State. The political law lex CEU receives political criticism because its root cause is political, it has nothing to do with the profession. You are disguising your political will to amend the national higher education law, while you know precisely that, in terms of quality, in terms of the professional functioning of the university, you do not have any objections, and you do not really have any objections in the present. The most important problem you have with CEU is that it was founded by György Soros. It would be bolder and clearer to say that you have a political vision of a plan that I consider not to exist, and as part of this political campaign, you are attacking one of the highest-level higher education institutions in the country. Because if the law were a professional - after all it is a higher education institution - it could be expected of the current Hungarian government to be represented by the Ministry of Education, including the State Secretary for Higher Education. But I don't see a single member of the government outside the Honourable Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, which leads me to conclude that you believe that education and higher education alone have nothing to do with this amendment, and you see it correctly. As it happens, I repeat, it's a political law. Such a political law, which, in addition, is hidden in the academic higher education sphere, could not be denied that it would cause such an echo internationally. This law, Mr. Secretary of State, is bad for the institutions, bad for Hungarian higher education and bad for the whole country. Therefore, if you can imagine any amendment to this law, it is one and only one to withdraw it. Therefore, I would like to point out now that the MSZP faction will not accept the amendment, the only solution is that this perverse, professionally disguised political law, which damages Hungarian higher education, damages the international authority of our country, is withdrawn with immediate effect. The content of the amendment, which happens to be an amendment to a deadline, and you, exercising some kind of grace, at least showing this amendment that the institution fulfils the conditions that you imposed violently not on the first day of the following year, but on the first day of 2019, well, their original objective was unprofessional and ridiculous when it was presented. This was indicated in the original debate on the bill, the amendment. You have set dates that, even knowing a little about the natural nature of academic life in higher education, happen to be that there is simply no education in the transatlantic world from mid-July to mid-September, all of you who have attended university or college have experienced this. This is why they could swim in Lake Balaton, for example, in August, unless they referred you to an additional exam, because in higher education neither in Hungary, nor in the United States, for example, in August. Therefore, to set a time limit which, within a period of several months, is entirely passive, since negotiations with a specific institution on cooperation or cooperation in compliance with your law, while the institution does not actually operate during the summer months, does not continue education, its apparatus is on a similar level of freedom, it could be seen completely inadequate. Compared to this, the amendment that is now being tabled to extend this deadline by one year also seems to be more political than professional, because if they had a professional resolve, they would know that such a solution does not increase stability but increases uncertainty. The students of an institution who will apply for an example for the 2018-19 academic year should submit this application in the spring of 2018 to an institution whose fate is in your hands, unpredictable, without legal certainty in this case. Why do you think it's mercy to prolong an unstable situation? Why do you think that the good thing for the institution is that the uncertainty in what they wanted most to avoid is to be clear what you want with a high-quality higher education institution in Hungary, not to close it, but to extend it? This is not good for the institution, and for those families, whether they are Hungarian families or even families in the neighbouring countries, who are thinking about remote countries, who are thinking about which institution their child or the applicant himself is applying to, it is not a positive aspect that they are extending the unstable situation, the uncertainty that you are holding up for a year. So in a professional sense, if this were the solution, I would say that it is wrong and try to listen to arguments, professional and professional policy arguments within Parliament. [[10.30]] But let's face it, this whole law has nothing to do with the profession, higher education or the quality of the institution. It has nothing to do with anything but the policy that has marked your past year and a half. Dear Secretary of State, I have to say that if, for some reason, we play along with the idea that migration in Hungary and in the European Union today would not be a problem in the sense that it would not be, I would be willing to bet on a very large scale that this law would not be at all. This is not the law governing Hungarian higher education, which seeks to improve its functioning, or in line with their own professional arguments; this is a political response, this is a law of vengeance, it is a political law, national higher education, and it has nothing to do with the functioning of the CEU in particular. At the same time, it is necessary to say that it has been embarrassing to see, in recent months, the otherwise completely incomprehensible pursuit of the federal level of your respected government, as the United States is a federal state, trying to achieve some kind of interstate agreement on higher education. Then the United States, through its embassy, through its spokespersons, and then through the Minister for Education, said that even for the sake of the Hungarian government, they could not change the constitutional arrangement of America, and they did not intend to do so. As it happens, higher education in the United States is not a federal-level system, so that they can agree on a federal-level government-level basis, no matter how many letters they have and how many comments they have raised, they only have the answer that it would be better to understand that it does not work that way. Let's face it, it's embarrassing. It's embarrassing, as another state - I understand, in your view, perhaps less influential - wishes to impose their own will on the law of the United States, but in some way they resisted it. That's how we got into a situation where, after months of wasted time, they're planning to extend the date until at least a federal state can establish it. For the reasons mentioned above, however, it was already apparent in spring that this was not going to work. At the same time, it would be fairer and more straightforward to say - as I already pointed out at the beginning of my speech by the lead speaker - that there is no technical basis for this law and no professional reference to it, specifically and exclusively political - that, indeed, as my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, at the time of presenting the minority opinion, you were trying to avoid this inexcusable law and inexcusable procedure before the European Court of Justice. They knew precisely - and let's face it - that too broad a vision is not necessary - that this could contain a judgment which could be reprehensible to your government, but at the same time it again draws attention internationally to a political law against which dozens of Nobel laureates, more than a hundred professors from the world's leading universities, have raised their voices in the most diverse fields of research. However, I think it should be considered that, even in the present situation, you will see that as you are submitting the amendment, you will open the law that, in the event of a technical change in the Hungarian Higher Education Act, such a quality and such a quantity of thinkers do not raise their voice. If you look at the events of the last few years in the European Union as well as in the field of higher education, be it the amendment of the German Higher Education Act, the amendment of the Italian Higher Education Act, the revision of the English tuition regulations, the amendment of the Higher Education Act in France, which, in fact, has caused a serious reaction, even to protest, but in international professional terms, it has not approached the wave of protest that your national higher education law disguised, in fact, caused by political law. It cannot be in their interest to risk the prestige of this country in the scientific world because of their own political goals. That's what's going on. Scientists who have not spoken to politics, especially in the field of political policy, and who do not speak after that, raise their voice against a Hungarian law in the interest of a higher education institution in Hungary. I even risk having absolutely no interest in the Hungarian domestic political life, but they do have an interest in the Hungarian and international scientific life and its functioning. You are jeopardizing the operation of this institution, a high-quality institution that performs its task in Hungary. This was the effect of the original law, which brought together the opinions of Nobel Prize winners, professors and institutions in very different ways against this law. And this current amendment of the law does not bring stabilisation, not only would it slightly improve their poor and political law, but on the contrary it will bring further uncertainty, it will also harm the institution's continued functioning, it will keep future candidates and the institution as a whole insecurity. At the same time, there really is an opportunity to amend the law, to talk about it again in Parliament and in the wider public. Once the amendment has been opened, go on: amend it so that it can be withdrawn. For the sake of Hungary, for the sake of Hungarian higher education, this law must be revoked for the prestige of our country. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-17-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, I would like to say that Róbert Répássy indicated that the opinions of Fidesz and KDNP are identical to those of the Commission, but would like to speak later. But I now give the floor to the lead speaker, Congressman István Szávay.
u2017-10-17-29	Thank you very much. It is an unexpected turn of events that, in the person of Congressman Répássy, there may be someone speaking on the part of the governing parties. This bill is very uncomfortable for you, my fellow members of the government. It is no accident that they are trying to keep this debate as quiet as possible and to give the debate as little weight as possible. I have now asked my fellow Members whether they remember anything - I did not remember it, but my fellow Members do not remember - from the last seven years, that, at any time, even in the case of the legislative proposal of the smallest importance, but discussed in the lead speaker's or in the lead speaker's framework, the governing parties would not have set up a leading speaker. We don't remember that. This case is unpleasant for you. There are many signs of this, starting with what my fellow Member Bárándy said, and unfortunately I am obliged to agree in this criticism that the Minister of Justice, after a brief revelation, broke out of the Chamber and gave his face to this trial only to the extent that he had to do so. [[10.40]] The Rosary was quickly put away, my fellow Members - KDNP Members are not in the Chamber now. But we haven't heard of Soros University, Mr. Secretary. Isn't Soros University CEU anymore? Congressman Répássy, is CEU no longer a Soros University? [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: I'm about to quote the Torocz.]] Coherent government communication, the Habones have issued to you at the time that the CEU can only be declared as a Soros University [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] From the university of George Soros, against which you are fighting for freedom. One of their relatively cheap intellectual supporters wrote on Facebook that we were talking about an Orbán-Soros-presztízsharc. The pro-government media attacked Jobbik with amazing vehemence and arrogance because we said so at the time, and that is what we are saying right now, that we consistently want to stay away from this clown. We are, of course, expressing our opinion, and we are also taking the opportunity to take the lead speaker's speech, just as the pro-government Members do not, but we have been consistent and firm about the fact that this bill is not actually about what you have officially communicated. That is why we have not pressed a button, and otherwise we will not press a button on this amending proposal. At that time you had a double communication, the official justification we heard was that in Hungary the laws must be followed, even by the Soros University. I didn't have time for it now, unfortunately, because I came a little earlier because of the absence of the pro-government keynote speakers, but I wanted to look into it - and I will do it later - from the previous minutes, that here in Parliament only during the trial of this law, in the spring, how many times the term "Soros University" has been spoken - is that CEU, I think, never once. And now you're forced to bring in this amendment of the law, and there's no such thing as Soros University, is there? Now we're just talking about CEU, while the freedom fight continues against George Soros. There are posters all over the country with the posters of buddy companies, which say that the Soros plan is the biggest threat to Hungary now. Here we rose to Bible heights in Parliament a few days ago, when it was about Satan and the Rosary. It is exactly what you did six months ago at the original hearing of this proposal. It's a prank, it's a propaganda, it's a firefight for their own supporters, it's the whole campaign against Soros that's all about keeping your electoral camp together, about showing an enemy image. You, my fellow members of the Government, do not want to defeat George Soros. You want to fight George Soros. They're not trying to win. There is a need for a continuous, permanent fight against György Soros to show some kind of enemy image to the electoral camp, so that we can divert attention from the fact that there has been virtually no meaningful government in Hungary for months, but only communication. If you wanted to defeat George Soros, you would do what I, or other representatives of Jobbik, have suggested or asked you several times during the spring debate: why not report it? Why don't you start any proceedings against him, with infidelity, organization of constitutional order, or any other reason? This was also asked when you were in the mood for CEU. Then, after you had not acted on this, we took action and my fellow Member, Mr Mirkóczki, made this complaint. Now I wonder what your hand-operated prosecution will do about it. But I'm pretty sure it's nothing, by the way. You and George Soros don't want to be dealt with, György Soros must be fought. This is your political goal. The proposal that we have to discuss now is very uncomfortable with this formula. This is about you making a concession to the so-called Soros University. And, well, my fellow Member Szilágyi was right, which we also quoted in the minority opinion: in fact, it is also a personalised legislation. You, of course, used to talk about the fact that everyone in Hungary has to comply with the law. Then shortly thereafter, Minister of State Palkovics spoke about the fact that the operation of the CEU would not be compromised, because he could continue his activities in other ways, but also if the new conditions were not met. In Hungarian, Minister of State Palkovics said at the time that if the CEU does not comply with the law, it can continue to work. We have received amazing attacks from the pro-government press because the Jobbik, by the way, is another party of the opposition, when we said that the Constitutional Court should decide on such a dispute. We said that the Constitutional Court, as the highest forum that Viktor Orbán referred to as the iron law of Hungarian democracy, should judge such a case. The legality of that! The pro-government press was full of Jobbik protecting the Soros University. I've been looking into the recent days to see if there's anything in the pro-government press about today's bill. Nothing! Listen, it's quiet, this whole thing is a deathly inconvenience to you, Mr. Secretary of State. You're bringing in an amendment to the law for the sake of the Soros University. They're bringing in this amendment to favor the Soros University. That is why they are silent, which is why they are not talking about Soros University, which is why they are only talking about CEU, which is why there is no word in the pro-government press about this proposal, and therefore there are no pro-government speakers, because no one wants to put their face to this blama of the pro-government representatives to stand up as lead speaker and say that yes, this proposal is necessary for the benefit of the CEU. And by the way, that's the reason. And even though I have now presented this opinion, we still do not wish to take a stand on this issue in this way, otherwise, because it is a malpractice. You are now in a rather uncomfortable situation, there has been an extremely large international protest, something that needs to be corrected on this matter. And this will not be communicated at all, it will not be filled with public relations, it will not be written about it by the 888, the rest of the filth mediums of Ripost and Habony, there will be nothing about what is happening now, because that would be completely contrary to the government communication that otherwise takes place on a different line, and that will practically link the success of your next elections to the campaign against George Soros. And then, returning to my original idea that there was a dual communication: you spoke in Parliament about the fact that this is a question of legality, that everyone in Hungary must obey the laws, but in the meantime, to their own believers, to their own journalists and intellectuals, you communicated that, finally, the time has come, we are taking action against George Soros' university, we are taking action against the spirit that George Soros represents. This spirit, by the way, is what we think of you, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: They don't think so!]] I'm just wondering what you're gonna say, Mr. Secretary, maybe we're the ones who actually think what you're communicating in this case. In contrast to his so-called spirit, Jobbik has always acted consistently, unlike you, in whom half of the Fidesz fraction has practically emerged from the robe of Soros, Fidesz owes its very existence to George Soros. The first photocopier, the first large donation, was given to your party by George Soros. And not only Viktor Orbán, but many of the leaders of Fidesz were also trained by György Soros. If there's a Soros plan, it's you, Secretary of State, Fidesz is Plan Soros. The Soros plan in 1990 was to turn these young intelligent, legal children into system-changing political elites. That was Plan Soros in 1990. You're part of the Soros plan. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: It's you!]] You and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself, because this was the Soros plan then. [[Dr. István Apáti: Then it became this!]] And then a few more skeletons fell out of the closet, didn't they? [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Völner!]] Like, for example. But I understand, Mr. Secretary, you were involved in this, and it was at yesterday's committee meeting, so if you had to make a fortune inventory of your life, it would be difficult for you to forget George Soros. But, I mean, there's the case of Secretary of State Berzetei, and on the way we found out that while you were attacking the Soros University, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs paid an annual tuition fee of HUF 4 million - if I remember the number correctly, but if I don't remember it, it doesn't matter, but I think it's worth HUF 4 million a year's tuition - to Deputy Secretary of State. [[The sound is ringing. Dr. István Apáti: The Soros Disturbing Station.]] The most beautiful thing about the whole story is, what was the main problem, among other things, in your communication with the Soros University? And then let's talk about Soros University, so it's clear what's going on. Well, what kind of thing is two degrees out? He's taking advantage of some special situation. And then what happened? It turns out that your government spokesperson, Secretary of State Kovács, has come exactly this way. In addition, he gave the same PhD test word for word in two places and obtained two degrees from it at the Soros University. [[Dr. Pál Völner: At least he has one!]] But it wasn't all over the government press back then either. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: How interesting!]] [[10.50]] I would like to take this whole case in a slightly different direction than Congressman Hiller did. I do not wish to go into the details of this and discuss what this bill is really about. I would rather have liked and would like to explain in the name of Jobbik why what is happening is completely uncredited, why it is self-controversial, why it highlights in hindsight that your objective was, in fact, only political hystericalism when this proposal was originally adopted. On the one hand, you have talked about legality, on the other hand, you have heated your own believers about how hard you are now taking action against the liberal brainwashing, that this spirit has no place in Hungary, and it is also about the competitive advantage of Hungarian higher education - we have heard from Minister Balog - because, in your view, the competitive advantage of Hungarian higher education must not be balanced by raising the other institutions and reducing the budget of higher education to half in seven years, as you have done, but rather by blowing out a university that we see or say is too prominent or too good at its indicators. We told you that in the past, and we received from you in the debate, and we received in the pro-government press that Jobbik is protecting the Soros University, that we in an Orbán-Soros-pristicist sharc, in a political prestige-scarc, supported György Soros just because we said that if it was a question of legality, then let the Constitutional Court decide. We still do not wish to side with anyone on this matter. We did not press a button then, so we indicated our reservations or our position on this proposal, and we do not wish to press a button now. Only the lineup has changed, Mr. Secretary. Now you're on Soros' side. With this proposal, you were the party of George Soros and the University of Soros. That's why they don't talk about Soros University anymore, and that's why they don't have representatives here, so they don't work out their own followers, and that's why there's no word in the pro-government press about what we're discussing here. In fact, you are the ones who returned to their original self, terrified of the international pressure that came through György Soros and his network, which you discussed a few months ago. They were terrified of it, afraid to go through what they originally wanted, because there was too much resistance. You are terrified, and now you are bringing in a bill with which you seem to be right, my fellow Member, who is speaking before me, but you are still trying to sort this matter out in a way that allows you to stay out a little, stay in a little bit, so that your faces remain somewhat in front of your parishioners, and you can show a little abroad that this issue has been dealt with somehow. Now, for a few sentences, I'm going to get to the point. They're not handling the issue with this. You achieve only one thing, and this may be your real goal - but you should talk about it, Mr State Secretary, whether this is your real goal - to maintain uncertainty vis-à-vis the institution, primarily on the part of the students. I say this as a person of some knowledge of the world of higher education: who would like to apply to an institution that is legally guaranteed, let us say, a one-year commissioner in Hungary? Or is that the goal, Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Read this. That's not what it says!]] I read it, thank you very much. That's the goal, then? But then talk about it. Then have the courage. They don't have the same courage as they did in the original debate of the bill. I'm very curious to know what the goal is, Mr. Secretary, tell me honestly. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Defiance on the pro-government side.]]
u2017-10-17-30	Thank you, Congressman, notary. Mr István Ikotity is the lead speaker of the political group.
u2017-10-17-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been six months since the black Tuesday, when the ruling majority voted in favour of the lex CEU law. On a statistical basis, this amendment of the Higher Education Act was forced through Parliament in two days, with no other purpose than to create legal barriers to the operation of the Central European University in Hungary. They talked about 27 foreign universities, but there was only one university that couldn't meet any of the new conditions. A poison was extracted from the government's witch kitchen, which was developed only for the CEU from foreign universities. They claimed that it was necessary to amend the legislation on foreign universities because some foreign universities operate illegally in Hungary. As you said, no university is above the law. CEU was accused of operating illegally, even though if it did, its operating license would have been revoked long ago. With sweaty work, false examination by the Education Office, minor administrative errors have been found, such as in many universities - even more serious mistakes - and this has resulted in the accusation of lawlessness. The CEU has also been violated, and Viktor Orbán himself has done this by being a cheating university, because he is giving two degrees. It is true that this is an existing operating model in the world, and most of the children of the state potentates go to such a cheating university, but this circumstance did not bother the Prime Minister for a moment. Then, when the CEU began legitimate self-defense against this infinitely unfair and unworthy political attack, it also received the fact that it was not enough to think that he was a fraud and above the law, even to create political trouble, there is no good intentions in him, as opposed to the well-meaning government. The story continued in August, so about two months ago, when the pro-government representatives boycotted the extraordinary parliamentary session with the cry that uncertainty about the existence of CEU was not a real issue, but a created problem. Then why are we sitting here? We are here in the middle of October, and the government, which has so far defended its position that the new conditions are completely normal and feasible, will submit a legislative amendment - indeed two - to amend the deadlines for meeting the conditions. The government that has said so far that everyone must abide by the laws and that no one can withdraw from them is now submitting a law that virtually acknowledges that the law - good intentions or not - is unfulfilled, or that even if it can be observed, it is impossible because of the government's delay. I also refer to the ministerial exposé, in which, if you look at it, in its proportions, the Minister said the same thing that was said earlier, which has been said many times before. Very little has been said to explain why we are sitting here, why this amendment is being made, and why this amendment is being amended. The Minister said an embarrassingly few things about this. The Minister of the Government that has said so far that if someone wants to settle, it can agree very quickly with the Hungarian Government on its further operation, now he says that the signing of the agreement has run out of reasons, because if the law is amended, then there is no need to agree until the deadline expires. As you can see, these yelling contradictions, the confusion with their own lies doesn't bother you at all. You do not mind being exposed to the fact that you are the ones who do not comply with the law, you do not have good intentions, and you do not want a swift agreement, but this amendment is about preserving the precarious situation. In particular, it is cynical to justify the bill, in which it is written that the general requirement of the rule of law is that the laws must be complied with by all, so that no entity may require individual discharge from its obligations. They also add that this is also true for CEU. Using the rule of law as an argument is facial cynicism in connection with the law on the rule of law with two legs. In particular, it is cynical to argue that everyone in the rule of law is subject to the same obligations without exception - in the case of a government that has made a system of personalised legislation and has made it the main rule of favouritism with friends. As the Minister of Justice, if he were still here, I would have drawn his attention to the requirement of legal certainty, an integral element of the rule of law. Do you know what legal certainty is? I would like to refer you back to a decision of the Constitutional Court. In its decision of 9/1992, the Constitutional Court stated that legal certainty makes it a duty of the State and, above all, of the legislator to ensure that the whole of the law, its parts and individual laws are clear, clear, predictable and foresight for the recipients of the norm. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.00]] It is against the principle of legal certainty to have retroactive legislation and to put legislation into effect without sufficient time to prepare. How much do you think this law meets the requirements of legal certainty? To what extent does it meet the requirements of norm, predictability, predictability? And what about the requirement for retroactive legislation or adequate preparation time? I'll tell you, this law is not in a thank-you way with any of the expectations listed here. It is precisely you who mock, not for the first time and not for the last time, the rule of law. It is no coincidence that the Venice Commission also considered it extremely problematic for the rule of law and fundamental rights in its final resolution published on 6 October. According to the Panel, the law violates the rule of law because of the new rules on existing institutions, the close deadlines and the strict legal consequences. The recommendation already calls for the withdrawal of working universities from new standards. Therefore, the Venice Commission has also found that the rule of law is not compatible with a regulation which, under such strict deadlines and with such serious legal consequences, imposes such strict requirements on existing institutions. What does the government do now? It extends the deadlines. However, pushing deadlines does not solve the fundamental problem; disproportionate and unnecessary burdens on existing institutions will not be removed. The situation, even with the withdrawal of the institutions' operating authorisations, remains unchanged. The conditions of the government's arbitrary interpretation will still not be clearer, clearer, clearer. The existence of CEU targeted by the law will not be less uncertain, unpredictable. The real solution can therefore only be a withdrawal of the law. This is an extremely unfair fight with the CEU. We could hardly believe it when the whole spree started, that today it could be done in one Member State of the European Union that a successful university, which has been ranked on international rankings, with thousands of young Hungarians and hundreds of teachers working in accordance with the law, could be dragged into the mud overnight, and its reputation and reputation could be ruined. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The whole case, which is all about the political survival of Fidesz, clearly shows how far the government can go when it comes to its own power interests. Fidesz's own popularity for its raw power goals is not a big price even to drive away a successful university, just to mislead people and remain in power. It cannot be said enough, in the context of the CEU case, it has become clearer than ever before when it comes to the survival of Fidesz, the retention of its power, nothing is expensive enough. They are able to sacrifice Hungary's international judgment, good relations with our allies, our country's ability to assert interest, our place in scientific life and the national interest in keeping as many talented young people as possible. Viktor Orbán does not look to the interests of his country, but to the interests of his own power. It's all subject to this. He can turn a university into an enemy. The LMP is convinced that the existence of a university in a democratic rule of law cannot depend on the good will of the government, its arbitrary decisions, its current political interests. However, the legal extension of the deadline would continue to maintain this condition. The uncertainty about the existence of CEU would be further extended by another year, and the university should continue to spend one year of uncertainty. Tell me what kind of people you are, that you deliberately want to keep thousands of university teachers, workers, researchers insecurity. ? What's in it for you? Why do they do this in spite of everyone's opposition and in the face of the nation's elementary interests? Why do they constantly abuse their power and turn it on harmful things instead of ruling in a constructive way for the benefit of the nation? Why is there a need for college destruction? Why do they not build and flourish the university sphere, so that not as little as possible, but as many universities as possible in Hungary will work for the benefit of the nation? Hungary needs not less, but more quality education, an open and autonomous higher education institution for all. The CEU case is also a crisis symptom of the deterioration of higher education for several years. The government's been breathing air from universities for years. Let me quote the letter from the head of the ELTE law department published on Facebook, in which he writes about the serious problems of Hungarian higher education in relation to CEU. I quote:, Higher education has had a number of years of devastating budget scarcity and poverty. Among other things, the introduction of the iron chancellor system and thus the expansion of bureaucracy, increasing its power from modest university resources, and also radically limiting the powers of the rector. In addition, the establishment and exclusive monopolisation of the National Public Service University, which is not familiar with the old intellectual independence of the colleges, as well as the establishment of the National Service University in the system of command. On the other hand, the dramatic reduction in state aid in other important areas, such as legal and economic education. It is easy to find the common denominator for these measures, and that is to limit, directly or indirectly, autonomy. So far, the quote. Instead of being busy raising the quality of higher education with serious problems and strengthening its autonomy, they bring us laws that are basically about collaborating. It's about you making enemies of anything in your petty political struggles, if your interests so require. Hungary finally needs a government and leaders who do not want to destroy, but to build, who do not take away the opportunity of young people to learn and prosper in our country, but give everything they can to develop their talents at home. Today Hungary has an anti-knowledge government, which puts its short-term individual interests ahead of the long-term interests of the nation. This needs to be changed, and we are going to change it. According to the LMP, Hungary will have a government serving the long-term interests of the nation if it considers education to be the most important sector of national strategy and does not try to make the country competitive by curbing wages and strengthening the role of labour workers, but by making it competitive with a multitude of trained, educated heads of people. To do this, instead of destroying well-functioning universities, it is necessary to replace the billions withdrawn from higher education, make the first degree free, restore the autonomy of universities, manage the lack of resources of rural higher education institutions instead of bleeding, and bring all young people to education. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2017-10-17-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Szabolcs Szabó has applied for a speech as an independent Member. You have the floor.
u2017-10-17-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must be honest with you, I've seen the display of hypocrisy that the Minister has been performing here for a long time. I suppose you're ashamed because you left because I assume you would have sat through the debate, as you should have expected. But Gergely Bárándy already said that, so I wouldn't say that anymore. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Take a sedative.]] Why do I say this is to unload hypocrisy? On the one hand, I think everyone will now see and will not object to the fact that lex CEU is the lex CEU, the whole story was nothing but the regulation of CEU and Soros, or at least the attempt to do so. And it's obvious it stinks from afar. Well, it's no coincidence that the Venice Commission has made it clear what the problem is with this law. You quoted this correctly alone, Minister, but then you came to the wrong conclusion, because the Venice Commission clearly said: my friends, you are either modifying it with no retroactive effect, and you are not imposing obligations on an institution that has been operating for a long time, or this is going to be a judicial procedure. Because, by the way, Hungarian Members who voted in favour of this law go against all kinds of norms. [[11.10]] It is quite clear that this law is simply unacceptable, and this is what the Venice Commission has said. Why unload hypocrisy? Because Minister Trocsányi is playing the same thing as the former Minister of Justice in media regulation, who stood up and said that this element of media regulation is from this country, the other element of media regulation is from that country, the third element of that, so it is a law that complies with European standards. It's just like going into the zoo and looking for an animal with a head like a lion's head, a neck like a giraffe, a body like a zebra, a leg like a warthog, a tail like a babyrussa - I don't know if a babyrussa has a tail, but it's called... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There's a story like this, what kind of bird is it?]] For example, yes. But there's no such animal, and there's no such media regulation, so there's no such law on higher education that I'm going to impose afterwards rules that someone woke up in the morning and figured out how good that's gonna be. This has been said, and I do not want to prove it for a long time, and it is quite clear that all the rules that have been put into lex CEU only apply to one institution and only one institution. It's case 2.0 of the fair of fiction! But there's McDaniel College. I had a good laugh at the Maryland contract, when the general debate went on here, L. Simon said to McDonald and College - he probably meant something else, closed by parentheses. So, in the case of McDaniel College, they didn't have to agree on anything, and there was a condition missing, namely the need to conclude a contract with the state of Maryland, and it wasn't discussed by McDaniel College, and it's the business of Budapest and the governor of Maryland. As a preliminary remark, I also asked him when the dispute between Hungary and Maryland went here how this would be settled in exactly international law. Only because the law states that an agreement must be concluded with the central government in the case of a federal state. So we need an agreement between Budapest-Washington and then we can agree with the Member State. I went through the Hungarian law, there is no agreement between Washington and Budapest. I sincerely wonder how the Ministry of Justice thinks, so what is the reason that this is an existing agreement if it is not once announced. Because there is an international agreement based on a change of registry, as far as I know, but I am not aware that, on the one hand, such a change of registry has taken place, I am not sitting in the Ministry of Justice - I am sure it has happened if you say so - but where is this published. Because an agreement, as far as I know, only lives when it's announced, because otherwise it's like we're two letters. So in parentheses, I would like to ask the Secretary of State where the agreement between Washington and Budapest is, on the basis of which they were able to go further with the State of Maryland. But that was just one of those parentheses little comments. And that's really the chimbrandt of hypocrisy, when you're here to prove a one-year deadline change, that, well, you can negotiate now, because it looks like you didn't really want to be here. So who didn't want to negotiate? If they loved me, it would have been a long time ago, and the agreement would have been made. Zoltán Balog made it very clear yesterday that he didn't want to negotiate otherwise. So that's what this whole story is about right now, hovering for a year and keeping a university in suspense, which is the worst thing in a university's life. István Hiller has already referred to this, and as a university professor, I can confirm that there is nothing worse in the life of a university than to recruit students without being able to tell if, in five years' time, the university exists. So obviously that's what this is all about. This is why I have tabled a related amendment to this proposal, that these deadlines must be extended not by a year but by a thousand and a year, and then there is no such uncertainty and there is plenty of time to negotiate, and the Hungarian government will probably have the will to negotiate. So what you can really say is that what's going on here is that it's bullshit, ash, bullshit - something like that, if I remember correctly, the Fidesz Vice President, Szilárd Németh - that's what's going on here, and they're talking about it, and it's quite obvious that this whole deadline amendment is just about pushing this thing out after the elections, and now, when the Venice Commission's opinion comes to the next step in the European Union procedure, they're able to flaunt some paper that I ask you nicely, it's solved, it's just not solved. That's the big deal. So all I can say is that it would be best if this whole thing were to be withdrawn or erased. We don't have to let this go too much, all we should say at such a narrow press conference is that dear Hungarian citizens, dear Hungarian university sphere, we apologize, we apologize, we didn't mean that, we didn't want to get into Hungarian higher education with double feet. I note only in parentheses that we should also consider resigning, because it would have been difficult for Hungarian higher education to do more damage than it has been done here in the last year. Then take the place of a colleague working in Hungarian higher education who is going to a foreign conference, and this is about what you have in universities. Think about it. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-17-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-17-35	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, First, I would like to share with you information of a point of order, namely that I have applied for a long time to speak, only in order will the Members who press the button be spoken later than those who have applied in writing. [[István Szávay: It should have been written!]] So there was no conspiracy, Congressman Savay, that I would tell you later, calm down, and we will tell you our position. It is clear to everyone that the debate is not about the bill that we have before us, but about the law that we have already adopted months ago and which is in force. So that's okay, I just want to say to everyone here who is listening to the debate that there is only one proposal before this House, so that the deadline for implementation is a year longer, until the amendment of the Higher Education Act is implemented. So that's the only proposal we have, and that's it. In response to what has been said so far, István Hiller and Gergely Bárándy also opposed the fact that the Minister of Justice had to leave, let me note that there is a government meeting and the Minister of Justice is officially taking part in the government meeting, so otherwise he is entitled to be replaced by his State Secretary. So there is no conspiracy here either, and I would like to reassure everyone that the Minister of Justice is doing his job, even when he is presenting himself here in Parliament and when he is taking part in the government meeting. By the way, Vice-President Hiller said the position of the MSZP and then left elegantly, he no longer wants to hear what we say to him. But it's their way, so to speak. Vice President Hiller says this law is bad for the country, bad for higher education. This, by the way, was repeated by Congressman Ikotity, as I recall. My fellow Members, if this law is implemented, why would it be bad for the country, and why would it be bad for higher education? So if the agreement between Hungary and the State of New York is finally reached and a foreign university has to establish campus in its own country as required, then why is this bad for Hungary and why is it bad for higher education? I don't quite understand that logic. Why would it be wrong for a foreign university to operate on the basis of an interstate contract in Hungary, and why is it wrong for a foreign university not only to conduct educational activities in Hungary but also in its home country? Please explain this, we certainly do not understand the problem with this whole amendment to the Higher Education Act. I wouldn't agree that István Hiller said that CEU couldn't comply with the law because they were on leave. [[11.20]] Yeah, well, another time, we legislators will consider when teachers go on vacation. We apologize for not taking this into account well enough, but this amendment will now take into account, because you will be given another year to implement the law. István Hiller says that legal certainty is at risk of maintaining this one-year period. The legal certainty, because the students don't know exactly where they're going on the record. Ladies and gentlemen, Then let us go back to the basic problem of having a Hungarian higher education institution called the Central European University, and there is Central European University, which is a registered institution in America. And the Hungarian higher education institution, the Central European University, was not affected by the amendment of the law at all, its students are not affected by the problem of the status of CEU, the university registered in America. Those who apply know precisely that they are applying to the Hungarian Central European University, because they are going into the building of the Hungarian Central European University, there is education, and most of the instructors are also teachers of the Central European University. Everyone who is a little deep in this problem knows this, and that's the point of all this is that we are talking about a university that is actually two legal entities, and if they want to, Americans, if they want to, Hungarians. [[István Szávay: Zoltán Kovács knows this best!]] When it is more favourable to them that they give American degrees and have an American identity, they make use of it, when they have to follow Hungarian laws, they wear the uniform of the Hungarian Central European University. That is the problem, my fellow Members, that there is a university that is two in one, and that is always the better side of regulation for them. [[István Szávay: Shouldn't Zoltán Kovács resign? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There are many reasons why you should resign. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In the United States of America, higher education is not a federal competence, says István Hiller, and he accuses us of how stupid we are, we don't even know that. Dear House, However, the Committee of the European Union, the Hungarian Socialist Party and, by the way, the CEU, are expected to force a sovereign Member State to change its laws. While the sovereignty of the Member State of the United States of America is respected by István Hiller and the MSZP, it does not deal with Hungary's sovereignty. Hungary did not pass [[István Szávay: What are you talking about?]] As the Minister of Justice said, Hungary has not allowed any body in the European Union to transfer higher education legislation. Hungary reserves the right to regulate the functioning of higher education institutions. So István Hiller said very nice sentences, but I have to say, the arguments he made are limping at a number of points. And then Mr. István Szávay arrived, who said that the government parties were uncomfortable with this matter. No, no! It's embarrassing for you, and I'm going to read you why. [[István Szávay: Hajaj!]] I'll read it to you. László Toroczkai, Vice President of Jobbik said this about Central European University [[István Szávay: Oh, my God!]] The university of Soros should not be a coward, but should be banned, closed, and its ruins sprinkled with salt on grounds of national security. That's what the Vice President of Jobbik said. And what do we hear here in Parliament? We hear that poor Central European University and that Jobbik is concerned about the rule of law and that Jobbik is concerned about democracy; while his vice-president says we should sprinkle salt on this university. [[István Szávay: That's right! Adam Mirkóczki: He wrote about you too! Don't you quote that? Dr. Pál Völner: Schizophrenic!]] Ladies and gentlemen, So to those who are really uncomfortable, it's Jobbik, because Jobbik sold the party's soul. They sold the party's soul. The president of Jobbik sold the party's soul. It also shows that the radical vice president of the party speaks and tells us what he really thinks about the Soros University, and then you reject this amendment of the law here. [[Adam Mirkóczki: They can do anything for money and power!]] "They turn to the Constitutional Court, and the governing parties are accused of some kind of sissy about György Soros. Dear House, Once again, Jobbik has proved to be capable of everything for money and power. [[István Szávay: He can do anything for money and power! Let's say we're in a choir together.]] can even disprove his own vice-president from his own vice-president's point of view; I'm guessing you've come up against Mr Simicska's order. [[István Szávay: Don't miss Béla Kovács!]] the radical direction of the party. Dear House, Mr Ikotity, on the other hand, argued exactly in favour of what is in the bill, and it is clear that a longer period of preparation is needed. I hope that, after proposing a longer period of preparation in this law, the LMP will vote in favour of this bill. After all, if it is a problem for you, and you say that the Venice Commission has also objected to this, or the European Union has also objected to why they have not been given a longer period of preparation, then they should be given a longer period of preparation. However, I apologise for that, but we will not accept from the Venice Commission the opinion that our laws are applicable to everyone, except those who carry privileges to themselves, they want to retain privileges that were born before the legislation. The Venice Commission takes the view that those who have acquired the operating conditions, operating rights under which they are now operating, cannot be legislated in the future. Please, where are these principles of law? Where are such principles of law that laws cannot be made forward-lookingly? Nobody told the Central European University to withdraw their degrees on behalf of the CEU. No one said that! He said that in the future he can only give a CEU degree, not a Central European university degree, or a CEU degree if he complies with the Higher Education Act. Dear House, Of course, I have seen court judgments that are completely contrary to the principles of law. I don't know what the outcome of this procedure will be, but this is the view that, for the future, you cannot change the privileges of a university, the privileges of a university, please, this is a ridiculous position! That's ridiculous. Then it would never be possible to encourage any innovation in higher education, otherwise, to encourage universities, because they would always refer to their functioning in the Middle Ages. Come on. [[Szabolcs Szabó: This is the only one in the first hundred!]] Dear House, [[Noise.]] Dear House, I would also like to reassure our fellow Member Szabolcs Szabó, to reassure him that the people working in Hungarian higher education are not affected by this law at all. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Yes, you can!]] This law does not affect you at all. As I said, the Central European University as a university registered in Hungary, a Hungarian higher education institution, was not mentioned in the course of the amendment of the law. The Central European University is only mentioned because the CEU combines these two legal identities. When the American jersey is useful to him, for example, when a degree has to be announced and the tuition fee has to be collected, it is important to him that he gives an American degree; and when he claims that he has been operating here in Hungary for a long time as a Central European University, he is hiding behind Hungarian legislation. This must be eliminated, this situation must be eliminated. Indeed, they are now given longer time than we have repeatedly referred to, that if another state of the United States of America could do this for another higher education institution, then I do not see why the Central European University could not do so. Oh, that wasn't what they were doing, because according to István Hiller, they were on vacation, or they were dealing with organizing a protest, that's a different question. When they finally have time to speak to the Hungarian government and conclude a contract between the two states [[Intercoms, noise.]] then if the two states conclude their contracts and the Central European University, or rather the CEU, has a campus in its home country, there will be educational activities - I hear there is a solution to that too, maybe eventually they just have to put up a sign and then they will have a campus - then they will be able to implement it. [[István Szávay: Then what's the point of all this? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then you can implement this law. Several examples show that the law is not impossible to implement or even explicitly possible to implement. Some have already implemented this law. This law can also be implemented by the Central European University or CEU. Once again, the claim that the implementation of this law would harm Hungary or harm our higher education system is a bluff; it is a bluff, a cheap bluff. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Free after Matolcsy!]] One last sentence. Dear House, I understand that you are using this against the government for political reasons, but at least you are not using this case to challenge our sovereignty. Why are they questioning Hungary's sovereignty? [[István Szávay: Because you talk nonsense, that's why!]] Why are they questioning the right of us here in Parliament to amend, for example, higher education laws? Why are you questioning him? [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why are you questioning this House that we can amend higher education laws? You say that once the Central European University and the CEU have been married, that cannot be changed. Why? Why can't it be modified? Dear House, If we give the institutions involved sufficient time to adapt and adapt to the new conditions, they will adapt to it. You know, money's a big deal. The money is a great master, so I am sure that the CEU, which earns very well from teaching here in Budapest and giving an American degree, will certainly adapt to this law if we give them some time. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[11.30]]
u2017-10-17-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, LMP.
u2017-10-17-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Répássy's contribution and answer those addresses. Look, my fellow Member, he argued that the opposition would pick up this face or that face. That is what I would like to turn against you right now, because it is you who are doing this. You're the ones who always move against something. If you would like to refer me back to Mr András Aradszki's speech last week, I could also say that denial is their point, but I do not. Dear fellow Member, You had an opportunity to comment as a lead speaker, you didn't do that. After the opposition contributions were made, he reacted. You are now the opposition of the opposition, my honourable fellow Member. You're responding to what we're saying. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is the debate! Dr. Gergely Bárándy to Dr. Pál Völner. Get in there. Get in on this, then.]] No, no, the debate is to defend their own position. I'd like to continue right here. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to continue the discussion here. That the debate that you are presenting is that the Minister is presenting an amendment and that is what we are debating, or that we are saying our objections and you are arguing with us. What's the argument? The debate that you are accusing us that we are not talking about this amendment, but I do not know if you have listened to the Minister's exposé, he has not spoken about this amendment either. He said the same modules he said six months ago when this amendment - not this, but lex CEU - came up. If that is in your interest, then this is what they say, if György Soros is financing Viktor Orbán and his associates at the time of the change of regime, then Soros is good when he confronts them for some reason... - when Simicska is the party's treasurer, Simicska is good when he comes across, then Simicska is no good. When it comes to protecting Christianity, Viktor Orbán defends Christianity. I can't show you what parliamentary seat you've been on because these lines have been rearranged. It was Viktor Orbán who said, "Churchmen, kneel, pray!" Isn't this a Christian persecution, fellow Member? They're changing their faces all over the place. You can't go on your own. They said... let's get back to what we're talking about here. On your desk, if all is true - deny that it is not so - there is a contract that should only be signed and this could all work. There wouldn't be any need for this clown thing that's going on right now, an extension. Your goal with this amendment is only one to keep the CEU in doubt for another year. That's their goal. If not, they'd sign this contract. Secretary of State, I hope you will respond to the fact that you have a contract on your desk, or you do not have a contract on your desk. Why are you so concerned? Because in principle, of course, it is to be supported. Congressman Répássy asked why we didn't support him. I didn't say we wouldn't support it, but that's probably the end - we were very curious about the arguments here - because it could be supported in its principles, because it gives us an opportunity, but at the same time we can see very well that it is a... [[To intervene:]] Congressman Vigh, I always go out to the person I'm talking to. We might as well support it, but the problem is that a year of uncertainty is going to happen when it could be solved right now. So it is not in the interests of Hungarian higher education that the government considers when it submits this amendment. When the question was why the government set such short deadlines, it was not a real solution to this, that it would be extended for six months, or for another year at the end of the year, and it was said from the mouth of one of the ministers yesterday that there would be another year before we had to sign it. Is it in the interest of Hungarian higher education that we have another year to keep a university uncertain? Please, this is our real concern as to whether this proposal is acceptable or not. Thank you.
u2017-10-17-38	Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, will now take the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-17-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, would respond to my fellow Member, Répássy, in this strangely structured debate, who, in fact, did not speak as a lead speaker, but after the opposition. That is, of course, the right of his heart, so there is no problem. Problem is, I'll tell you again, after the Minister's revelation, he's gone. So, speaking of a debate, and Mr Secretary of State shouted that this was a debate; well, Mr Secretary of State, the debate when the Minister stayed here and responded to the points he had made. I hope you will do it in this debate, so that you can respond to it, and not just in the closing line again, as you always do. Well, I would also like to refer to what my fellow Member Ikotity has just said in response to the objection that is the subject of this debate. Indeed, this is a proposal for an amendment, but I think that, on the one hand, in the case of a law that was politically motivated and is now trying to carve, it cannot be said that the original proposal should not be discussed. And as my fellow Member also said, the Minister has already seen this, as he started the expo not talking about this proposal, but about the CEU law in general, the lex CEU, and then, if you will, he has involved the amendment and the need for the amendment. So I don't think that's gonna happen. Two: since Vice-President Hiller is not in the room, let me give you two or three thoughts on the issue of his person. Congressman! I think that when we object to the Minister's exposing himself, declaring himself and leaving the Chamber, it is not the same as when a Member leaves, who is a speaker. First of all, it's the minister's habit. So once again, we are going to turn to the House Committee for this, because this is a violation of Parliament's authority. Not because, let's say, he had something to do now and had to leave, but because this is the Minister's practice, for many times now he has to say it and leave without listening to the speeches of the Members. The other is that he was here as the minister's author. It is the duty of the author to sit through the debate in Parliament, not to speak to a Member. Our faction is represented, here it is, here it is, I will comment, and I will respond to your speeches. But once again, the status of the author is quite different, whether he is a member of the government or whether he is a Member of the Council, as a representative of the debate. Compared to these two, I think it's silly. Here, in this debate, István Hiller was one of many Members; it is true that he is an extremely prestigious Member, former Minister of Education. And I would add that when you were a minister, you never did that. When he was a minister, he didn't run out of the room regularly after the presentation, as long as we're at István Hiller's. But let us turn to the substantive points that my fellow Member has made. Why is the law bad for the country, and why is it bad for higher education? I think I have made it very clear, too, that my fellow Member, István Hiller, has made it clear: because this is a political law, it was a bill, it is now an adopted law that served the purpose of shutting down a higher education institution representing critical voices or representing critical positions against you, you can make it impossible, you can destroy it. The fact that this is not going to work as easily as you would have liked it to be does not yet undermine the argument that this is harmful to higher education and is harmful to the country. It is harmful for the country and higher education if an otherwise highly high-quality university, an institution of higher education, is tried by the government to attack and destroy it. So far, this has worked normally, so far it's worked well. So long as you didn't start scapegoating and scapegoating in the person of George Soros, there was nothing wrong with his operation, the university or the legal environment. What an interesting coincidence that you had this problem after decades when you were calling George Soros a scapegoat! How interesting. That's the problem, Congressman Répássy. [[To Dr. Robert Répássy talking to Dr. József Kovács:]] I would be happy if you didn't talk, of course, your right to talk to your fellow Member, so feel free to do so, I won't say a word about it. Anyway, we're used to this. [[Mr Róbert Répássy: My colleague came in and we started talking.]] [[11.40]] So, the point is, that's why it's harmful, Congressman, because you asked me why. This is why it is harmful to the country and therefore harmful to higher education. Being on vacation was another problem for the congressman. [[Dr. Répássy to Hiller...]] You got what you said wrong, Vice President Hiller. Vice-President Hiller did not say that the CEU leaders were not interested enough in the fate of their institution to be willing to work in the summer. That's a strong misinterpretation of the words he said. He said there was a break in the United States, too. And do you not think that the system in the United States will change that because the Hungarian Parliament has made some decision? He didn't refer to the freedom of the university here and the freedom of the CEU leaders, but to the Americans that they can't do meaningful work there, because this is the nature of the university, out there, in the United States, not here, on the CEU. I therefore believe that this is worth highlighting and clarifying. Congressman Répássy has taken up sovereignty again. I know these are panels with you. If anyone dares attack the Hungarian government anywhere, it is either treason or a violation of sovereignty. Bullshit! When the government is attacked, they attack one, not Hungary, but the government and the government's actions, or the Hungarian parliament and Parliament's decisions, not the country. There's nothing wrong with this country. Not even the 10 million people who live in this country have a problem with that. It's your decision that's wrong. This is not a matter of sovereignty, Mr Secretary of State, when the Government or Parliament makes a decision that is contrary to the rules which are binding on us and on us in the European Union, let us say, and that is not an attack on sovereignty in the government, obviously in the right place, let us say, in the European Union and ultimately in the European Court of Justice. Do you know when that would be? If Hungary had not submitted itself to the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice. But when we joined the EU, we agreed to do so; just as the decision of the Hungarian court does not violate the sovereignty of the Hungarian State, the procedure of the European Court of Justice, but the procedure of the European Commission does not violate sovereignty. And when someone turns to these organs, it doesn't. This is not a question of sovereignty; these are normal remedies in the European Union. And that it is being called to account in the government or in the Hungarian Parliament to comply with the law: how could I not? How can we ask citizens to comply with the laws and laws that we make if we do not comply ourselves? This is not a matter of sovereignty! Nobody wants to violate the jurisdiction or sovereignty of the Hungarian State, nobody! This is a normal procedure in the European Union. [[Happy István: Soros-bérencek...]] The other thing is to bring it here, Congressman, is that the sovereignty issue or the issue of sovereignty is who to negotiate with? I don't know what you're thinking, I'll tell you the truth. The fact that this is not a federal competence, but a Member State's competence in the United States, and that we must accept it, that it parallels the issue of sovereignty, that we expect respect for sovereignty, because there is this custom, and they violate ours? I don't understand. You know what I can compare it to? It's like a foreign company in Hungary wants to set up a subsidiary and is offended by the fact that it has to do it at the court of law, not at the government office. These are simple laws, these are simple rules in a country, and this is not a matter of sovereignty, Congressman, it has nothing to do with it. Nothing. So neither on this basis nor on the other basis does anyone attack Hungary's sovereignty; everyone simply expects us to abide by the laws, to take into account the laws of the Hungarian Government in the United States, to take into account the laws of the Hungarian Government and Parliament, what the laws are in the European Union, and to adapt them to the laws it makes. But on the other hand, these are not questions of law. This whole law isn't about law, law, equality of rights, it's about how you want to take out a university, you want to end and destroy a university that doesn't represent a sympathetic ideology for you, just like Putin did for St. Petersburg. Pandant of that is the law. We object to this, honourable Members, and, of course, I may once again say that we are trying to hide behind legal arguments, but as you can see, this is not a success. It fails in Hungary and fails in Europe and worldwide. The contents of the protest lists you received at the time are still valid and live today. Everyone in the world who was even interested in this story can see that this is nothing more than the implementation of a political endeavour. That is the case, and it is therefore unacceptable, and we will therefore not support it. I think that with this speech, I have been able to deny my fellow Member Répássy's arguments point by point. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-17-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Szávay, Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-17-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Répássy! I'm not a lawyer or a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer. This is something that my fellow Member here has repeatedly denied, whether it is sovereignty or the competitive advantage of the institution you now call CEU, which has previously been communicated as a Soros University. And he didn't talk about it, thank you, he gave up the mandatory circles again from the prepared panels of the Habony works, just be careful, because he left out two of them: Béla Kovács and Gábor Vona took the soul of Jobbik - so they wouldn't scold him next time! [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties. Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] It was a smoothie, that's okay... [[Dr. Répássy Robert's intervention.]] That's right, and what it took, and that for money and power, Jobbik can do anything. Béla Kovács, don't stay out next time because you're going to be a daddy in the faction, Congressman. Turning to the substance of the matter, or responding to what he said: Why didn't Zoltán Kovács have to resign, Congressman? If you have any consistency after being asked for consistency, why didn't Zoltán Kovács have to resign, or at least return one of his diplomas, which you believe to be obtained with an undue competitive advantage? Government spokesperson Zoltán Kovács has obtained two such degrees, which you believe is a kind of unlawful competitive advantage, and this argument was also heard in the original parliamentary debate a few months ago that the CEU has an undue competitive advantage because it wears an American jersey. Mr Répássy returned to the question of legitimateness again, but then he had a semi-spoken, interesting speech, with which he was basically basing the whole point of the proposal when he said that there was only a sign to be put out. Is that really what this is about, Congressman Répássy, about putting up a sign in America? That's what you're talking about, that it's so simple. Then what was the point? Is that really the point, right now in the state of New York or somewhere, where we put a sign that says "CEU"? [[Dr. Répássy Robert's intervention.]] Well, that's what you just said. You have to put up a sign. Was that supposed to make such a fuss? Are you asking for consistency from us? I know it must be very incredible for you and any representative of Fidesz to have more opinions in other parties, and it's not just what the leader says, to which you have to be slavish and loyal. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties, among other things: Simicska...]] That's what Laszlo Toroczkai said, yes! We've been through this a couple of times. [[Happy István: Simicska says something else...]] We discussed it a few times, that was the opinion of László Toroczkai. The Jobbik faction's position wasn't that on this issue, it was what I told you in the past, and what I'm doing now. And what I'm talking about is exactly what we talked about six months ago. It is not that Parliament has no right to amend the Higher Education Act, Mr President. You asked this question why the opposition doubts the sovereign right of the Hungarian Parliament - I didn't understand this discussion, by the way - that it could amend the law or touch the law on higher education. We didn't question him then. We said it was a Bolshevik tempo you're doing. This did not serve the rule of law in any way. It was a piece of legislation that we consider unacceptable. You have not consulted anyone in the world on this matter. They wanted to touch this case without asking the stakeholders about it, and you were talking about the difficult situation of Hungarian higher education and competitive advantage, and that CEU has an undue competitive advantage, and you want to break it. [[11.50]] Then, of course, in the pro-government press, this has gone on with a little bit more waves, where your publicists and your psychics have been talking about cutting the privileges of the CEU, but this has appeared in a bit of a different tune in the pair of government media, where the whole thing has been given such an anti-Soros freedom fighter uniform, in which the government is now bravely trying to act, but everyone here from the rogue opposition is playing from Soros's score, and even Jobbik is defending the Soros University when he said that the Constitutional Court should decide on this issue. That's what we're saying right now. At the time, several opposition speakers said that there was little time to implement this law. You denied that at the time. Now, just suddenly, in the news at the time, I found the Hoffmann Rose, who spoke on April 4, that if we put a long deadline on a task, we tend to push and only do it at the last minute, for example, the question of tax returns. It argued why it was okay that the law adopted a few months ago gave CEU an unrealisticly short deadline for implementation. My fellow Members, the fact that you have just brought this amendment in here proves precisely that those who said that this deadline was short at the time were right; or, if you do not prove it, you will prove that you did not intend to eliminate and destroy this institution in the first place, but that there was only a political atmosphere, because now you are throwing a lifeline, if temporarily, for the institution, and at least in the next year, ensuring that it works, which of course is not a definitive solution. One thing is certain: the one who has taken a consistent position on this issue is us, and we are now. Back in the day, we didn't press a button for this law because we didn't want to participate in this comedy, and we don't want to do it now. You are now in one situation, you are in one situation under international pressure, but it may also be that this was the only purpose in itself, and you really did not have the courage to actually act against this institution. One thing is certain: this bill either admits their mistake at the time, or it is admitted that neither was the original intention of you to act on the merits of this institution. No matter what it is, we do not wish to participate in it in this form, and we do not want to give our names to it. This is a type of legislative procedure against which we strongly protest, and we will not, we do not wish to participate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-17-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot has been said here in the debate, in fact the point was not mentioned whether the extension of the deadline by one year was agreed or not. Based on various other issues, opposition parties have decided not to support this kind of presentation. In the expozee, Minister, he said that this amendment is being made in an international sphere of law; I believe that he has given the right answer and dealt with the proposal, unlike you. It was very clear from the expozee that, in practice, whoever wanted it could meet the conditions within this deadline, but which is not mentioned to be affected by this change in the way the original amendment meant. It was just Congressman Hiller who talked about the quality, and no one else here talked about this in connection with the debate on the bill, that the 28 institutions represent a very different standard, and just this amendment, the basic amendment, makes it possible for only those who have an adequate professional background, an adequate international background, and a state guarantee to continue to operate in Hungary. What you've been talking about, if I've calculated correctly, is that Congressman Szávay mentioned the name of the Soros University several dozen times. Technically, if we read the presentation carefully, this term is not included, so it is indeed a regulation for all Hungarian higher education institutions operated by foreign maintainers. It was also said that there was no competent State Secretary of EMMI here to present an amendment to the bill. It can be seen that they originally made this amendment; the fact that this is currently the subject of discussion with the Venice Commission or the European Commission in international fora justifies the fact that the Ministry of Justice was the rapporteur in this case. What I would like to recall is that the Venice Commission has also clearly stated that the regulatory area of these higher education institutions is a national competence. Several were mistaken that it was a matter of retroactive legislation; my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, I believe, answered exhaustively that we were talking about future regulation. It has also been said that it causes uncertainty about enrollment, that the future of the institutions is only foreseen for one year. The amendment itself, if you look at it carefully, the last TAB modifier has practically pushed the possibility of issuing a degree until the deadline for completing university studies, so it is extended for another four years compared to the initial condition that we talked about. I think I've made my point. The rest of the political debate, of course, is welcome to be taken up at any time, but in the course of this debate, I believe that the faction has been answered by Congressman Répássy. I call on this House to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, It is 11:56 a.m., and votes will take place under our next agenda item, exactly at 12 a.m. I'm taking a 12-hour break. (Sunning: 11.56 - 12.02) President: István Jakab megjegyzők: dr. István Tiba and István Szávay)
u2017-10-17-45	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and verify that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. Law 1 and CCIV 2011 on National Higher Education. XXV of 2017 amending Act No. T/1781 on the amendment of Act T/1781 Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/17819/4. T/17819.5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17819/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes to 31, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17819. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 118 votes in favour, 31 against and 1 abstention. Following a series of amendments to the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Albania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17567 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 174 votes in favour. Next up is T/17313 on sanctions for administrative violations. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17313/11. T/17313/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 was proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 119 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Gábor Staudt. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 119 against and 30 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17313/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 28 against and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17313/14. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 27 against and 3 abstentions. T/17458 on the amendment of domestic and other related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17458/9. T/17458/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 2 and Jobbik Group No 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 4. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. [[József Tobias indicates that his voting machine is not working.]] Please take the machine-related action, no sign of the board. [[12.10]] My chart accurately indicated the results, the results I announced were accurate. So again, 56 yes, 119 no and 1 abstention. Now you can see it on the board, yes, we've restored it, we're back to work. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's not that! József Tobias: The machine doesn't work! Plus a yes!]] So, plus a yes to Joseph Tobias. I also ask for the support of the notaries for the vote, and we must pay attention. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Amendment 4 is proposed by György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 118 against and without abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/17458/9 of the Fidesz Group. A separate vote was initiated on point 29 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the parts of the summary amendment that require a qualified majority and then on the point that was asked for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We now decide to accept points 11 to 14 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority and lines 7 to 8 of point 30. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present are required for their adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17458/9. The majority of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote. 122 yes, 35, 23 abstentions. József Tobias: The machine is no good! No!]] The Parliament accepted the qualified majority part of the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 35 plus the vote of József Tóbias, 36 against, with 23 abstentions. [[Dóra Dúró: We don't have the majority by 36! Noise, murmur.]] Patience, please. [[It's a short break.]] Following the precise calculations, the Parliament accepted the part of the amending proposal requiring a qualified majority. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members on the left to kindly wait for the result, and I will tell you later. Now the summary amendment... [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Congressman, thank you. We are now deciding on point 29 of the summarised amendment proposal for a separate vote. At the request of the Fidesz Group, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 29 of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 151 plus József Tóbias did not vote, so it did not accept the amendment with 152 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17458/9. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 32 plus 1, i.e. 33 against, without abstention. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the provisions requiring a qualified majority requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17458 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 119 votes in favour, 37 plus 1, i.e. 38 against, with 23 abstentions. [[It's ringing.]] We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17458 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 119 votes in favour, 33 plus 1, 34 against, with 23 abstentions. Following the 2011 Environmental Product Award LXXXV. T/17569. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17569/5. T/17569/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17569/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 29 plus 1, 30 against, 27 abstentions. [[12.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17569/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 29 plus 1, with 30 votes against and 26 abstentions. It follows that H/17398 on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2016. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/17398 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 140 plus 1, i.e. 141 votes in favour, no votes against, with 27 abstentions. It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. T/16275 on the amendment of Act T/16275 for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/16275/5. T/16275/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/16275/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 26 plus 1, with 27 votes in favour, with 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/16275/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes in favour, 26 plus 1, with 27 votes against, with 2 abstentions. The 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure is on the line. T/17165 amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17165/7. No T/17165/8 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 plus 1, i.e. 60 votes in favour, 107 votes in favour, without abstention. Amendment 3 was tabled by Gábor Staudt and Csaba Gyüre. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 plus 1, i.e. 58 votes in favour, 108 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17165/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 27 plus 1, 28 votes in favour and 27 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17165/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 27 plus 1, 28 votes in favour and 27 abstentions. It follows that T/17167 on the application of legal aid and the right to register costs in civil and administrative court proceedings. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17167/8. and the summary report by T/17167/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the LMP Group, amendments 2, 3 and 4 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 111 votes against, 29 plus 1, with 30 abstentions. Amendment 3 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 3 votes in favour, 160 plus 1, by 161 votes against, with 2 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 plus 1, i.e. 52 votes in favour, 114 votes in favour and no abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17167/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 110 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour, 53 plus 1, with 54 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17167/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 111 votes in favour, 1 vote against, 54 plus 1, with 55 abstentions. [[12.30]] The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition follows. Act T/17570 amending Act T/17570 and certain related legislative provisions Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/17570/5. T/17570/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/17570/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 29 plus 1, 30 against, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17570/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes in favour, 30 plus 1, so 31 against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by independent MEP Zsuzsanna Szelényi on the opening of the accession process to the euro area H/17344. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution by 28 plus 1 votes in favour, 110 against and 22 abstentions. I ask you whether the 2013 LIV on the implementation of the regulatory cuts will be included in a series of subjects, in order to ensure a fair reduction in the energy prices kept unduly by the government by Members Bertalan Tóth and László Szakács, MSZP. T/17352. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill by 52 plus 1, i.e. 53 votes in favour, 106 against and without abstention. I ask you whether you will be included in the series of articles T/17262 on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary by Mr Gábor Staudt and Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik, Members. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 24 votes in favour, 109 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, by the LMP Group, the Justice Committee's 10/2014-2018. On the rejection of IUB's general position on the subject, Ü/17707. We shall decide on a request submitted to the European Parliament. I would like to remind you that this was discussed yesterday by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Ü/17807 proposed by the LMP. Request No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the request by 30 votes in favour, 104 against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] [[12.40]]
u2017-10-17-46	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. If your card is placed in the voting machine and you indicate that you are taking part in the meeting, then if you take your seat, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lebanon, of the other part, and the draft law on the publication of its protocols thereto, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/17779. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-10-17-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As you said, the bill is about publishing a protocol to a bilateral agreement. According to the Hungarian Government, cooperation between the European Community and Lebanon is important in several respects. On the one hand, this Protocol and its adoption open the way for a dialogue that could lead to the strengthening of a plural democracy in the Middle East. The second aspect of this agreement is that the Member States of the European Union can strengthen trade relations with Lebanon that bring economic benefits to this region and exports to the Member States of the European Community, both in terms of products and services. On the other hand, the proposal submitted by the Government aims, among other things, to recognise the activities of the Hungarian Government for the stability of the Middle East region in Lebanon. And this is not irrelevant when, apparently, this country plays a significant role in dealing with the migration crisis. Along these lines, the government decided to ask for the support of the Hungarian Parliament to announce the proposal. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with keynote speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Lebanon plays an important role in Hungarian foreign policy, as this country is a key state of stability in the Middle East, while protecting Christian communities, helping those trying to escape from the crisis zone in the Middle East to stay as close to home as possible and to return home as soon as possible when the situation is resolved. Such an effort by Lebanon proves that this is the most effective way to manage illegal immigration. Instead of encouraging people to cross over to Europe to risk their lives, the countries concerned, such as Lebanon, should be helped to care for those in need. Cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans can make the wave of refugees threatening Europe more manageable, but local crisis management is much more preventive. Lebanon undoubtedly has a key role to play in implementing this, for which it needs support from the international community. Our efforts are supported by the fact that Hungary has initiated at the European Union to increase the aid of EUR 400 million approved for Lebanon to EUR 800 million in order to maintain the stability of the country. Furthermore, given that Lebanon is considered by Hungary as a protector of the Christian community in the Middle East, our country is investing EUR 1.5 million in the renovation of 30 local damaged Christian churches. In November, with the start of the first phase, 18 churches will be started, the process of which will be coordinated by the Pázmány Péter Catholic University and a Lebanese Christian university. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the Fidesz Group supports the Euro-Mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the Union and Lebanon for several reasons. On the one hand, we consider it important to preserve common Christian values and on the other hand we consider the role of Lebanon to be outstanding in ensuring more effective protection of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group, as I said, supports the proposal tabled and we propose it to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-17-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us concerns the publication of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lebanon, of the other part, and the protocols attached thereto. With Lebanon, the European Union concluded an Association Agreement in 2002, which otherwise entered into force in 2006. The aim of the agreement was to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the parties; to progressively liberalise trade in goods, services and capital; to create the necessary conditions for it; to trade between the parties; and to promote the expansion of balanced economic and social relations; and to develop economic, social, cultural, financial and monetary cooperation. The agreement, by the way, consists of eight titles, and I would like to highlight two of these eight, namely the second title, which contains provisions on the free movement of goods: the European Union and Lebanon are gradually creating a free trade area, and products originating in Lebanon can be imported into the Union duty-free and free of charges having equivalent effect; and the seventh title, which is about financial cooperation, which includes an appropriate way of supporting structural policies implemented by Lebanon in order to restore the financial balance of the countries of the Mediterranean region, to increase economic growth and at the same time to create an economic environment conducive to improving social welfare. The EU supports the country in a variety of ways, including the Danube Congresswoman, in particular in the areas of human rights, improving government efficiency, education and internal security. The Association Agreement, which is the legal basis for bilateral relations, will be complemented by the European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan and the Partnership Priorities to be adopted in the near future. The European Neighbourhood Policy Instrument is the primary source of support from the European Union. Lebanon is also receiving significant support as the country most affected by the refugee crisis in the region, and, as my fellow Fidesz Member mentioned, it is, overall, one of the central states in dealing with the refugee crisis. The European Union is also the largest trading partner in Lebanon: bilateral trade flows in 2015 were almost EUR 7 billion, which is about one third of Lebanon's external trade. The stability of Lebanon is therefore crucial not only for the region, but also for the security of Europe, and therefore the Hungarian Socialist Party Group will support the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-10-17-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-17-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this Act is to publish the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Lebanon, of the other part, and the Protocols attached thereto. The objective of the Convention is to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the Parties, to create the necessary conditions for the progressive liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital, to promote trade between the Parties and to enhance balanced economic and social relations, and to develop economic, social, cultural, financial and monetary cooperation. [[12.50]] Lebanon is the most stable state in the Middle East, so it is the EU's most important partner in the region. This is not only economically and politically true, in Lebanon, as has already been said, there are currently about one and a half million refugees, mainly Syrians. This represents one third of the country's population, and therefore the European Union and Hungary also have an elemental interest in ensuring that Lebanon remains stable, because a war there would trigger another huge flood of refugees towards Europe. Efforts have been made in this respect over the last few years, and it is no wonder that the EU is investing a lot of money and energy in the country, the EU is also the most important trading partner of which. Although Hungary's trade relations with the country are not outstanding, this agreement can also help. I hope that, therefore, progress will be made, and I would stress that the Jobbik Group also supports the publication of this agreement and the protocols. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to say whether there is still a fellow Member who would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft legislation on the publication of the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until its closure. The government referral is T/17780. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-17-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A similar proposal lies before the National Assembly, as discussed earlier, and the State concerned is, as a matter of course, different, we are talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Association Protocol is essentially all about strengthening the process of supporting the integration of the region into the European Union. The government is convinced that this is in the interests of Hungary as well as the Central and Eastern European region. In essence, the Association Protocol recognises the efforts made and made in these countries and in Bosnia and Herzegovina to promote integration in order to consolidate the rule of law and democracy. In our view, speeding up and completing the process of integration in the Balkans as soon as possible can make a major contribution to the economic, political and defence stability of the Central and Eastern European region, which is why we are asking Parliament to adopt the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-17-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the signing and publication of the agreement with Bosnia and Herzegovina and, to the same extent, we support Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration efforts, we are ready to assist in the implementation of the steps. The role of the Western Balkans in addressing and resolving the problems of migration having a significant impact on the European Union's security policy is crucial. The security of the Western Balkans can be guaranteed by accelerating the process of accession to the EU and NATO in the region. The tension and instability in the Western Balkans pose a high risk to Hungary due to geographical proximity, but the threat is a serious threat to Europe as a whole, beyond Central Europe. In the event of the launch of another migration wave, the relationship between the Western Balkans and the European Union in effective defence is clearly a key issue. The promotion of cooperation can also be significant for Hungary. If the Western Balkans are not able to properly prepare and stop migrants from taking protective measures, then the threat from the southern border will also have a direct impact on our country. A possible crisis situation can be prevented, but in any case it could be reduced by effective action by the Western Balkan States. On the basis of this consideration, Hungary should seek to facilitate the rapid European integration of the Western Balkans, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. The prerequisite for this is to strengthen the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the aim, inter alia, of supporting military units sent by the European Union, and also of promoting economic integration, with the aim of promoting duty-free trade and trade between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Fidesz Group supports the future continuation of this integration process, and we support Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to the European Union. Our position is supported by the fact that speeding up the European integration of the Western Balkans is in Europe's security policy and economic policy interests as a whole. Accordingly, the Fidesz Group proposes the bill to the Parliament for adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-17-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us concerns the publication of a Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia and Herzegovina was signed in Luxembourg in 2008 and entered into force on 1 June 2015. The Agreement is set out in Annex LV of 2008 on the publication of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The adoption of the bill was unanimously supported by the Hungarian Parliament in September 2008 with 369 votes in favour. The aim of the Agreement is to facilitate the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, the European Union supports the country's efforts to consolidate the rule of law and democracy, thereby contributing to the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of the Balkans region. In view of Croatia's accession to the European Union, the Protocol to the above Agreement was signed in Brussels in December 2016. Pursuant to the Protocol, trade in goods between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina shall be subject to duty free from 1 February 2017, which shall be provisionally applicable. In addition, on 15 February 2016, Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted an application for EU accession. In addition to socio-economic reforms, the Council of General Affairs adopted Bosnia and Herzegovina's request for membership as an undisputed agenda at its meeting on 20 September 2016 and invited the European Commission to prepare the country report. Hungary is committed to the stability and security of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the main guarantee of which is the effective Euroatlantic integration of the country as soon as possible. Our country made diplomatic contact with Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992. In 1997, we opened our embassy in Sarajevo, our honorary consulate in Mostar, and this year a new honorary consul began its operation at the Banja Luka consulate. It is in our fundamental interest that the changes in the region promote economic and political consolidation, while the differences inherited from previous decades should be reduced, so the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. My fellow Members, thank you for your attention and for the opportunity to speak to Mr President.
u2017-10-17-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[13.00]]
u2017-10-17-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement', was signed in Luxembourg on 16 June 2008. The Convention or Agreement entered into force on 1 June 2015 and is intended to facilitate the European integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, the European Union supports the country's efforts to consolidate the rule of law and democracy, thereby contributing to the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of the Balkan region, as the involvement of the Western Balkans in this way is an important commitment from the Community. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This bill is needed because of Croatia's accession to the European Union. Although the country has taken serious steps to join the European Union, their disputes with neighbouring countries, Croatia and Serbia may continue to be a problem. In 2016, Bosnia and Herzegovina submitted its application for EU accession, and this year the European Parliament adopted a country report on the state, recognising the efforts, but identified additional areas in which progress should be made. It is indeed important to note here that we are faced with a longer process, and it is clear that it will be the process of many years that this integration can indeed happen. Efforts are, of course, recognised by the community, and we are doing so for our part, but the end of the road is even further away. Overall, however, Honourable Parliament, Jobbik can support the adoption of the bill, as we are facing a motion of a technical nature. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-17-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Bana. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now, if there is a two-minute speech or a further speech, they will be followed. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Mr Parliament, the general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, says no. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill amending certain laws relating to the change of the name of the Governmental Officials Arbitration Committee will follow until closure. The government referral is T/17783. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-17-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of this bill before you is essentially to introduce a new name related to terminology from the changed personalities of the former Government Officials' Arbitration Committee. A new name is justified which subsequently covers public officials and government officials as a collective concept and is adapted to the names of the members of the panel, the public service commissioners. The arbitration panel is the system of public service law before the judicial review procedure, and it is therefore appropriate to amend the name of the body to the Civil Service Arbitration Committee. The proposal before you essentially amends six laws, such as the Civil Procedure Act, the Enforcement Act, the Public Service Officers Act, the Temporary, Amending and Determining Rules in connection with the Public Service Officers Act, and the Act amending certain related laws, the Administrative Procedure Act and the General Administrative Order Act and the Law amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Procedure. Since this is a technical amendment, we are asking the Parliament to accept it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-17-64	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Zoltán Demeter.
u2017-10-17-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the legal systems of democratic states, it is essential in principle to ensure consistency between conceptual clarity and different standards. It is therefore necessary and essential that the law-seeking citizen and the law-abiding state power receive accurate, clear and satisfactory guidance from the legislation text. Therefore, if a new law also introduces a new terminological designation, this should be transferred without delay to the State acts governing legal relations containing that legal concept, in accordance with the fulfilment of the State obligation arising from the requirements of legal certainty. This case is concerned by T/17783 amending certain laws relating to the change of the name of the Governmental Officials Arbitration Committee. Bill No. 1. When setting up the Government Officials Decision-making Committee, its competence was limited to the public service disputes of government officials and government administrators, which were CXCIX of 2011 on public service officials. Law 190. They were derived from the employer's measures provided for in paragraph 2 of Section 2. These measures include the termination of the service of the government, the request for the elimination of conflicts of interest, the findings of the rating, the assessment of performance, the decision in the disciplinary and compensation case, the unilateral amendment of the appointment and the decision to pay the fee. The 2016 LXX on State officials. With the entry into force of law, the personal scope of the former law governing the respective legal relationships has changed, and therefore the change of the name of the Governmental Civil Service Arbitration Committee to the Civil Service Arbitration Committee is justified. As of 1 July 2016, with the entry into force of the new Act on State Officials, government officials at the district offices of the metropolitan and county government offices and from 1 January 2017 government officials at regional government offices became state officials and government administrators became state administrators. From those dates of entry into force, on the basis of a new public service relationship under the law, most of the complaints and opinions cases belonging to the Governmental Officials' Arbitration Committee constitute proceedings initiated by the above-mentioned state officials or state administrators. In my view, the current name of this forum is not in line with the staff of public service disputes, and for this reason, I propose and strongly consider it justified to change the name. However, as a new term, the Civil Service Arbitration Committee is coherent with the concepts of state officials and government officials, its members are public service Commissioners. The introduction of the new terminological designation is also justified by the fact that the Governmental Officials' Arbitration Committee is the fora system of public service law prior to the judicial remedy. [[13.10]] The purpose of the bill is therefore to amend the laws which contain provisions and regulations relating to the Governmental Officials' Arbitration Committee. CXCIX of 2011 on the role and status of government officials and government administrators prior to the entry into force of the Public Officials Act. There was a law. These individuals, who undertake this service, and who show determination, loyalty and humility towards the operation of the state machine, require that the state establish a forum for dealing with such special matters in order to solve their problems arising from their special relationship. As a result of this decision in principle, the Hungarian Government established the Government Officials' Arbitration Committee. The problem that we hope to solve now is what we hope that this House will solve by adopting the bill, so that we can say exactly what forum public officials and state administrators can come before with their disputes. I would recommend to the honourable Parliament that we not forget that we have the right of citizens under the Fundamental Law to appeal. We also have a constitutional fundamental right to establish legal certainty by the State, that is to say, in a predictable and foreseeable way, the decision of the law-seeking citizen when he reads the clear and clear provision of a particular law. However, if there were no amendment of the renaming in the related laws, the rights of those performing the previously mentioned public service, as defined in this Fundamental Law, would be violated. One of the basic requirements of fair and fair proceedings before the dispute panel is therefore to know from which body you can ask for assistance due to your status. The bill before this House contains only text-exchange amendments, but it is also of principle that it is now time to do so, since the laws on general administrative order and administrative procedure have been adopted. Thus, in my opinion, the amendments are also required by the harmony of the legal system. In short, I would like to mention the success of the reform of the Hungarian public administration system that started in 2010. As a result of the results of recent years, a transparent, clean and well-managed state apparatus is now helping the citizens of Hungary to deal with their daily affairs. I can now also say that a new Code of Procedure will help to deal with disputes between citizens and public authority arising from administrative relations. This new code is clearer and more transparent than its predecessor, which has been amended so many times. It is obvious that public administration is a priority area where reorganisations and restructurings are expected at all times and at all times, which naturally have an impact on other areas as well. These other areas will thus require the need for amendments in order to meet the requirement of transparency. We are facing a situation like this right now. Public service is a life mission. The state's service is respectable and appreciated. So let us bear in mind such wise thoughts when we decide that these people, who have chosen this profession, can enforce their special privileges in a transparent way and do not let them go into the mazes of the law. In conclusion, I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament to establish coherence in the enforcement of the rights deriving from public service relations. Legal certainty simply requires that if there is no longer a government official and a government administrator as a valid concept, then we should avoid any confusion arising from such use of names in order to eliminate this designation from our standards and instead introduce a concept of collection, which is the most taxatically appropriate. I believe it is not difficult to see why this amendment, with which the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance agrees, is needed, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-66	Thank you, Congressman Demeter. On behalf of the political groups, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, a notary of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2017-10-17-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This bill will be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, after it is in fact just a matter of making different laws nice and renaming the arbitration committee in accordance with the laws. But if my colleague before me has spoken so nicely and so long about the success of the reform of the public administration, which has been an extremely complex process since 2010, I cannot help but commenting on this success with one or two thoughts. First of all, I think it is highly controversial that the persons we have previously called civil servants and who have exercised public authority in various budgetary institutions as officials, the Orbán government has, for some inexplicable reason or hard to justify, started to share them and to turn them into government officials and state officials. So now this civil servants' faculty is divided into three parts in total. We also have a problem with professional support for this, but even with their career model. Here, our fellow Member, Zoltán Demeter, spoke with a long and extremely heartfelt voice about the humility that civil servants must show towards the state machine. I think that, on the one hand, loyalty to their nation and obligation to comply with the law must be shown to them; at least that is the most fundamental attitude. I would put humility in parentheses, because the law is the only way to exercise that humility, not against the state machine, the various officials of the state party. But while you are a career model, let us not forget, fellow Members, that in 2008 the Gyurcsány government concluded the very humiliating IMF pact in which it was recorded, and that the 38 650 forints of civil servants' salary was carved into stone, which the Orbán government still cannot, to this day, do not want to change. Therefore, there is no way in which we can talk about a career, because we must slowly say that the minimum allowance you provide as a guaranteed minimum wage extends to civil servants for the rest of their lives. [[The notary seat is occupied by László Földi.]] Some case managers can start their work with the fantastic perspective that if they have secondary education, they will enter the state's service at the age of 18 and continue this work for forty years, they will receive the same money when they retire - one of them. [[13.20]] And the other is, I don't know how well that saying to you is known, that promise is a good word, if you keep it, that's good. State officials, when they were appointed by you at the district offices, also made the promise that this would apply not only to district offices, but also to those working in county government offices. Indeed, from 1 January 2017 we now call the employees of the county government offices state officials. Only the problem is that you will be paid for it in the manyth paragraph of a salad law - also hidden there - has been included that you will not receive it from 1 January 2018, but from 1 January 2019. If they get it. 'Cause, you know, what could have been postponed once before, could be postponed no matter how many times. I think it was an extremely shady and cynical attitude from the Orbán government. This is a career model, isn't it, ladies and gentlemen, that we promise something, and then without consulting the professional forums, with the representative organisations, we will take it away with a pen stroke! Why is that, anyway? I just checked the STADAT signs, how many people can we talk about? We can talk about twenty-two thousand. The entire salary increase you should give these people is about 30 billion forints. Let's see how this can be done. Okay? Let's see. Well, then, for example, eliminate the propagandaistry, they're about to have the funding. But if we were to reduce the public service contribution of propaganda, we would still have it. If the renovation of the Ministry of Finance were postponed, we would still have it, the Liget Budapest project could also be covered. Tao discounts could also provide cover, and Eximbank could also be covered. Or, for example, next year we're going to spend 65 billion forints on stadium construction. Or to return to the Prime Minister's Office: perhaps moving the Prime Minister's Office to Castle should not be spent 4 billion forints per room, and I would have the funds to raise the salaries of the county government officials. So, if you're gonna want to change some law someday, I'm gonna need you to file this first. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-68	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone wishes to take up the opportunity to speak, whether they are two minutes old or their representatives. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-10-17-69	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you so much for the opportunity. First of all, I would like to thank the Government on behalf of the two groups who have spoken for their support. Since Congresswoman Hegedűs did not mention the parts related to the relevant bill, allow me to remind the public of Parliament here, for the sake of the minutes, that, according to the position of the Hungarian Government, any increase in wages is due only to economic performance. Since there is economic growth, we have started to develop wages in sectors that, I think, have been waiting for themselves for many years, such as health care, as education, as part of the government's staff, who has the most personal customer contacts, and this government has not planned to complete this process. This will continue in the years to come. That's all I wanted to say, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the legislative proposal to amend individual laws in order to better protect children until closure. Presentation by representatives of Répássy Róbert, Németh Szilárd István, Selmeczi Gabriella and Horváth László Fideszes T/16168. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-10-17-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, When you hear news from the media about another paedophile crime, when you hear news that a minor child, a child under 18, has been assaulted, in many cases sexually assaulted, raped, the first feeling is always shock. A stomach-stricken feeling, astounding; in many cases, the second thought is always that woe should not happen only to our own child; but then the next thought is to never happen to anyone else, not to a child. Then, of course, the next feelings and thoughts, the helpless rage, and then the anger of what to do with the unsub if we know who it is. But perhaps the most important issue for every member of society is what we can do to ensure that this type of gross crime does not occur in the future. We can express the desire that we want our children never to commit such a violent pedophile crime again. Such a crime happens, harassed, assaulted a child. It can't be undone. A crime like this can't be overwritten, it can't really be treated out of the child for what he's been through. For the rest of his life, this child will bear the consequences of such a pedophile crime, within his whole life it will be a stamp, carrying it in his behavior, and then in his contacts, in his ability to communicate, and obviously professionals and psychologists would be able to long-term describe the defect that these children, children under the age of 18, suffer as a result of such a crime. This has been stated in Parliament several times that the most repulsive of the crimes, the sexual crimes committed to harm a minor, are the most disgusting crimes. These are innocent, mostly defenseless young children, and this terrible thing is happening in their lives. What I said, we have to do everything we can to avoid these crimes so that they can happen. We are sitting here in Parliament as legislators. Let us ask ourselves, as legislators, what we can do for our children. Allow me, before I go into the specific norm of my fellow Members, Mr Horváth, my fellow Member, Mr Répássy, my fellow Member, Mr Szilárd Németh, to talk very briefly about the fact that this is not the first amendment to protect children. We have already tabled a number of legislative amendments, and we hope that they have achieved all the results. The new Criminal Code entered into force in July 2013, where we had a very important goal of better protecting the interests of children in the new Criminal Code. Then, in December 2014, the independent motion that I tabled with my fellow Member, Mr Bánki came into force. Here life brought us another nasty paedophile case, and we learned from the media that there was a person who, for many years - I might say, for decades - had been sexually harassed by minors who, when they began to talk about it, began to reveal what had happened to them, unfortunately, this crime had passed away. [[13.30]] Therefore - and thanks to all Members of Parliament for unanimously voting in favour of the amendment - we decided that sexual offences against minors, pedophile crimes in the common language, would not lapse. We have sent a message to these people, who are able to commit such a crime, that there is no statute of limitations, that the sword of Damocles hangs over their heads for the rest of their lives, which is that once it is revealed, even many years later, what they have committed, these people can still be punished. I thank Parliament once again for agreeing at that time and we voted in favour of this amendment. Then, this year, January 1, 2017, a number of amendments to the law - several of these amendments, by which we have improved the safety of children - came into force. Let me just list a few. We have prescribed that the siblings' cases should be dealt with together in social security cases. Then we clearly regulated the obligation to cooperate with the GP, the patroness. We have also clearly regulated when and what the members of the signalling system are responsible for. Then you can't point fingers at each other about who missed the signal that a child is in danger and need to intervene. Then we made provision for early guidance; without prior approval by a prosecutor, we allowed the guardianship authority to lead the parents forward. This may be used in cases where immediate action is to be taken. My fellow Member, László Horváth, can talk about these amendments in more detail, as we worked on this amendment together and did a very serious, deep professional work. But let's be specific about the proposal for a bill that lies before you. Law C of 2012 on the Criminal Code - hereinafter referred to as the Criminal Code - 52. § 3 shall be replaced by the following provision, and I would now quote the norm:. The perpetrator of the crime against the freedom of sex and sexual morality, if he has committed the crime to the harm of a person under 18 years of age, must be permanently prohibited from exercising any occupation or other activity in which he carries out the education, supervision, care, treatment of a person under 18 years of age, or is in any other power or influence relationship with such a person. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are all aware of that in this Chamber, but let us give an example of what these crimes against sexual freedom and gender morality are. Without the need for completeness, let me list a few: sexual coercion, sexual assault, incest, fence, promotion of prostitution and so on. So, if these crimes are committed to the harm of minors, then we, in this law, would require the judge that if he condemns the person legally in these crimes or one of them, he should also be required, as an additional punishment, to prohibit him from the occupations, as I have listed in the norm, in which he comes in contact with children under the age of 18 and establish a subordination relationship. I would not consciously list jobs in this comment, since we do not want to offend, violate any profession or profession, we are talking about criminals, we are talking about criminals. To date, the regulation has not made it compulsory for the judge to prohibit it from working, but left it in the free discretion of the judge. But, fellow Members, let us put to ourselves the question that if someone is able to commit such a crime, sexually harass a young child under 18 years of age... - I do not want to go into the details, but a man meets with terrible matters when he digs into the depths of professional material. This could be a matter of children aged one and a half years, very small children; the penal code presumably assumes that they are unable to defend themselves and are unable to defend themselves when they are under 12 years old. So let's ask ourselves, if a man is able to commit such a crime and, say, condemn, serve his sentence, regain his freedom, and re-place himself in a job where he reconnects with young children, this subordination relationship will be re-established, as he can educate, train, supervise, conduct a medical examination of the child, then we are sure that this man will not commit the same crime again. You don't have to answer the question right now. I put this in order for everyone to take this question and to take the answer to themselves. In fact, I would explain why we have tabled this amendment and why we would impose compulsory and permanent bans on employment. It is important to consider the judge freely, but we consider that the child's interest overrides everything. Ladies and gentlemen, This proposal has a 2. Article 2 of the Act, which concerns the endangerment of a minor, is also a criminal offence. What we want here is for the criminal code to be amended as follows. Therefore, a paragraph 4 would be added to Btk. 52. Article 4a of the Act, which states that the offence of endangerment of a minor must be prohibited from exercising any occupation or any other activity in which the person under the age of 18 is raised, supervised, cared for, treated, or has other power or influence relations with such a person. This is the basic case that it should be banned, but in cases where it is particularly appreciated, the compulsory application of the prohibition of occupation may not be applied. So in this case, we would leave the judge's right of discretion, free to decide whether or not to prohibit an individual from the occupation, who is legally convicted or not. Ladies and gentlemen, As a basic principle, we can say that child abuse is unacceptable, and we can also say that all of our measures, all of our legislative amendments, all of our provisions are subject to this value. This bill, which lies before you, would enter into force from 1 December 2017, if the Parliament adopted it. I would like to thank the members of the Justice Committee for their unanimous support for bringing this amendment to Parliament. I would like to thank the government, especially the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Resources, who have helped us with our work with a full chest width and very professional knowledge, so that we can present you with a good and acceptable bill. I would ask my fellow Members to continue to support the amendment here, in Parliament's debate and in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2017-10-17-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government now, Secretary of State or later. [[For signal:]] Later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-17-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to be a lead speaker on the one hand because the text of the proposed bill is short, clear and clear, and on the other hand, the Fidesz Group fully agrees with Gabriella Selmeczi's statements and what she has to say. Our starting point, like other amendments to the law on the protection of children, is that the right to safety is a fundamental right, that every person is entitled to this right, and, in particular, the right of children to safety, to which she referred, is a priority, and that it precedes all other rights. It follows that all forms of violence against children must be dealt with with with the strongest and clear rigour. This rigour is also part of the rigour of criminal law, whose task is to deter and thus increase the defence net. To distinguish between violence and violence is hardly worthwhile, sometimes the wounds caused by psychological violence and emotional violence heal more slowly, have longer effects, have a painful effect than physical wounds, but yet violence is an outstanding and unacceptable form of sexual violence against children. It is particularly distressing and intolerable for a child to become a victim of sexual violence in a place where he should be protected and cared for. It is particularly distressing and intolerable for a child to become a victim of a person who has sworn to pursue his vocation for the benefit of children. Is there a greater depth of hit-and-runness than a protector becoming an attacker, an attacker who abuses the power given to him, influences him, and turns this power and influence against the defenseless child entrusted to him? Is there any greater disappointment than a child's own parent, educator, caregiver, healer of trust in life, the world, adults? Is there any greater disappointment than when someone is forced to recognize it and have to live with the fact that they can't protect you and can't protect you? And is there a lineup from such a tragedy as a child? Is a life enough to leave the shadow of such a tragedy, a drama? I have a close friend who lived through tragedy as a child. The family's best friend was the perp. The parents entrusted the child with this trust, and he turned it against the child. To this day, my friend hasn't told his parents what happened to him, but he still wears it and wears it as an open spiritual wound, and he'll always wear it. It wasn't enough decades for him to tell his parents that, dare he. And of course, if such a tragedy occurs, the question is whether anyone can help, who can and can help not only the victim, but also the victim's environment. From everything I've said, it may be clear to all of us that prevention in this case, in all cases of violence, is the most important issue. And of course, this raises the question of whether we can recognize the existence of incompetence, the existence of incompetence, the existence of incompetence, the presence of inadequacy, and the presence of incompetence in the educational arenas or the theatres supervising minor children, on the scenes of care and treatment, on all the scenes where the power-to-control relationship with the child appears. [[In the notary seat, István Szávay is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] Gabriella Selmeczi talked about many things that have happened in the past. However, it may be important to clarify in connection with prevention that in cases where there are no signs, it is certainly a lesson that broadening the care of the family, taking into account the priority of foster care, replacing the large number of institutions, creating as many homes and homes as possible are in the interest of prevention, but prevention also includes criminal protection and deterrence. And if one has become unworthy, if one has become a perpetrator of sexual violence against a child, there is no story there, because no chance of another tragedy should be given. It is necessary to provide for a definitive ban on such persons, clearly, clearly and firmly. Because I think we can also agree that there is not a single unnecessary child's life, and there is no child's fate, no life that we can give up. In this spirit, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-17-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Horváth. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-17-75	We're in favor.
u2017-10-17-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-17-77	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I will speak more clearly than the speaker before me. Of course, we will support this proposal, because there have been similar topics before the Parliament several times, as Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi said as rapporteur. From the outset, when a milder form of this proposal was submitted, I tabled this as an amendment in order to permanently ban a person committing a sexual offence against a minor, but then for the first time, perhaps even the Btk. Róbert Répássy, one of the drafters, said that this could not be done at the time as State Secretary, because it is contrary to international law and constitutes a restriction on the perpetrator that cannot be implemented. I am glad that, during their legislative socialization, they have come to the level of realization that this can still be achieved. I'm very happy for you. I hope that this will be followed by the recognition of other proposals on similar crimes, either by Ádám Mirkóczki and Tibor Bana in relation to chemical castration, or by my motion for a register of European legal order in some form that can be found in the United States in connection with the registration of pedophile crimes and the publicity of the perpetrators of sexual crimes. I hope that they will also reach such a level that they can support such action. [[13.50]] I almost completely agree with the motion, by the way. I agree perfectly with the first part of it, which absolutely excludes these perpetrators from fulfilling such professions, because if I wanted to set an example, no one would want to leave their flock to wolves, because if that were to happen, what we would actually do would be to throw underage children into the claws of predators. We have to stop this from happening. I cannot fully agree with the second part of the proposal. The last time I had a similar motion before Parliament, I also said that I had spoken to judges in senior positions, that I had negotiated on this issue, and that they said that their view was that judicial independence was not at all violated by the fact that if those who were convicted of the crime of endangering a minor had to be permanently excluded from the care of such professions as a punishment, because - I said and now say in the previous debates - the crime of endangering a minor is already a category that is similar in its gravity to the proposal 1. the category in §8 of the Act. We are not talking about a misdemeanor, we are not talking about the fact that the child has been beaten once, or that he has not been properly nurtured or properly clothed, that he has not been properly cared for, that we are talking about very serious facts and very serious situations in the criminal act of endangerment, which, as we have just heard from my fellow Member, causes trauma, and that child carries it as a stamp and burden throughout his life as an adult, up to his old age, or until his death, as he has to live his life after an abuse. What I'm saying is that in the second category, even in the crime of endangering a minor, we have to permanently ban these people from leaving them in his care later on, because there are two sides to every medal. I apologize if I also put in a slightly different professional argument on this subject, because the authors and other speakers have spoken quite a lot about how serious these crimes are, how serious the consequences are in the life of a minor child, what serious consequences they have for their whole life. I also condemn what is happening in these cases, and I also believe that one of the lowest, lowest, and most serious crimes is what these perpetrators commit and do. I can't forgive you and I can't accept that this could happen. But to talk about the other side of the coin, let us think about the fact that these people are underage children. In many cases, we can also trust underage children who receive institutional education for some reason and are left to the care of the state. In the beginning, they enter the institutions with a broken soul at some level, often showing a deviant attitude in some of their actions. In such a situation, they will be placed in a large institution at this level of disinheritment and faced with such an act, in the clutches of such a predator. Then not only is it their life that breaks into the waist, it is not only their life that is in danger, either mentally, mentally or physically, but also in society, because a child who is already in need of a broken soul is even affected by such trauma, as we have heard in the previous speech, just from people whose protection and care he would be left in the hands of, it can bring him into this spiritual trauma so deeply that deviant behavior can be almost enveloped in the future. And then this deviant behavior can put a lot more people in jeopardy. In many cases - I cannot say statistics, but in many cases - a child experiencing such trauma may later become a predator in adulthood, who later does the same with other underage children. Therefore, we need to pay close attention to those who are especially allowed near these injured and more sensitive children and young people, because not only are we talking about these children, but in a few years' time, even in decades' time, it can be about our lives, the lives of our children, and the safety of the whole society. As rapporteur, Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi listed what had already been done in the past period, so that this system would provide greater protection for underage children. I would like to draw attention to some shortcomings. The fact is that the role of the members of the signalling system has become more enshrined in the legislation. But I will say this once again, which I have said many times in debates of this kind: until the sanctioning system is properly established, we can lay down these rules in vain, and even if we write down the tasks of the members of the signalling system point by point, in many cases we cannot expect a miracle. I think the professions practiced by the members of the signalling system are a very big profession, and I have worked in it, and I have had the pleasure of working with very great colleagues, fortunately, and there are very great colleagues working in this system, but as in all systems, there are people here who are not so great and who are not doing their job so professionally. They may, if their duties and rules are laid down but not accompanied by a sanction system of sufficient gravity, in many cases they can avoid working, and if this happens, in these situations, we will decide on the fate of minor children or on human fates, or on the risk of human fates. The other question is how much these people get involved, how much protection they get from minors against these people. Let's look at the situation of social services and social services in Hungary today! There is such a terrible lack of people, and they have to work with such an enormous burden that in many cases, even cases of protection take months, before it becomes an official measure. Until official action is taken, whatever may happen, the minor child who may or may be in that family will not be protected, so it can be enveloped or, unfortunately, serious cases may occur. It is therefore necessary to change not only the legislation, but also to strengthen the systems that serve and carry out the tasks imposed by the legislation. So if we do not strengthen the social services, the social services, either in numbers or at some level to reduce the burden, then we cannot expect a miracle from the operation of the system. Once again, we are talking about a system that has very serious consequences of malfunctions in the system, because it is children's lives, children's fates and human fates, so we should pay more attention to this. So I'm going to say again that we're going to support the bill. We have objections, which I will probably submit in the form of an amendment, because I am the one who binds the dog to the stake, and I think that even in the crime of endangering a minor, the permanent ban on the pursuit of the profession is also correct. I also maintain my concerns about the system, and I trust that this process will continue, because I would declare absolute zero tolerance to the perpetrators of this type of crime, and I would, at some level, ignore the rights of these people. I ask that we continue on this path, and that we also introduce other measures to limit the rights of these people. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-10-17-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We absolutely agree that the fight against abuse of children is extremely important, particularly important. That is why it should be pointed out that we have seen many times before that the Criminal Code is being amended in the form of a motion from its own representatives, and this is how these proposals are presented to the House. I think that, given the importance of the matter precisely, it would have been worth having a broader social debate on these issues, and we would obviously not be talking about an amendment to the Btk. every two months. This does not, of course, reduce what an important issue we are talking about, but obviously in the future we should not just talk about amending legislation, nor here in the context of the general debate, but also about the circumstances in which this amendment will take place. [[14.00]] We know that not only is the solution to the amendment of a criminal code itself, but this is much broader, whether we are talking about the development of the signalling system or the need for prevention and its improvement. Recently, legislation has tightened the rules on statute of limitations in cases where crimes against the freedom of sex and sexual morality are committed against minors. The amendment before us would prohibit, with final effect, the perpetrator of these offences from exercising any occupation or other activity involving the education, supervision, care or treatment of children or having other power or influence relations with such persons. We will, of course, support the amendment again, but we would like to add two amendments to this. One of them, as I mentioned, is the Btk itself. Amendment and tightening up is not enough, as in the fight against child abuse, we cannot say that this alone is the most effective tool. It would be at least as important to prevent, prevent and, if these cases have already taken place, to recognise them as soon as possible and to act against them as soon as possible. However, it is very important to prepare the supply system, the signalling system and the professionals working in it. The tightening of criminal law rules is of little value if there is no progress in the prevention, detection or detection of abuse, sexual abuse against children. Professionals dealing with and coming into contact with children should receive appropriate training, enabling them to detect signs of child abuse and sexual abuse. A methodology for child abuse is already available for this, but knowledge of it by professionals is still largely behind; just as the child protection signalling system is still unable to properly carry out its task, there is no close cooperation between the signalling members. In this area, too, we have seen only tightening up measures, but measures that would indeed prepare members of the signalling system for close cooperation have unfortunately no longer been seen. While clarifying the responsibilities and responsibilities of the signalling members, clarifying procedures would also make a great difference in requiring more frequent case discussions and case conferences in these cases. It is also necessary to mention the extent to which conditions are not in place for a qualified professional to be able to perform high-quality professional work in child protection. The shortage of numbers in the social field is already 10 percent; 10 percent of people are missing from this system. Existing workers must be extremely overwhelmed, with administrative obligations, with a very high number of cases, and without any material conditions. Despite promises in the social field, the introduction of a social career model has failed, and workers have not received a basic wage increase. They've still been getting their wages on the same civil servant payroll for nine years. The fact that their salary has increased slightly with all kinds of allowances, but at the same time they are still the least paid, least respected profession is the social and child protection profession, with a net salary of HUF 90-120 thousand. Without settling the pay situation of workers and ensuring the necessary number of workers, it is quite certain that there will be no more effective protection for children and that there will be insufficient deterrents to stricter criminal law legislation. It would therefore also be appropriate to present a proposal from the government which is otherwise committed to child protection in terms of more appreciation for social and child protection workers than the current state. And I do not want to start by mentioning to you how much expenditure the government currently has, so the central budget, which would be a much more useful place, for example, in the development of this system, as well as in the wage increase of social workers and the development of the child protection system, but you will certainly agree that there would be something to spend on solving this situation. In any event, the LMP had a concrete proposal for a amending budget, which would have allocated HUF 30 billion to the wage increase of the workers, with these unnecessary expenses not specifically mentioned by me. I'm afraid you didn't support that at the time. The other addition, which I would like to add to the bill, concerns how criminal protection could be extended without age constraints in cases where there is clearly a power-to-subordination relationship. We find it unreasonable to limit restrictions only in the case of the freedom of sex and the crime against sexual morality to the detriment of a person under 18 years of age to be compulsory and only in the case of the occupation of a minor. We believe that this legal consequence should be linked not to age, but to the existence of a power and influence relationship. At 18 years of age, there is no less vulnerability or greater awareness of rights in terms of gender freedom and crimes against sexual morality. Two examples are higher education or social institutional care. In both cases, those in power may commit such crimes, which are typically undetected, abused by their power and by the vulnerable position of the other. In most cases, victims do not press charges. We therefore propose that not only such crimes against minors are sanctioned by the legislator, but also by all cases, regardless of age, against an dependent adult, in higher education and social institutional care. The sanction and the compulsory permanent ban also apply not only to minors. We don't think it's age, it's power relations. In addition, it is proposed that the private initiative be abolished in order to better prosecute such crimes, as a condition for initiating proceedings in cases of sexual violence or coercion against a person over 18 years of age. At present, the law provides that only a private initiative, i.e. the victim's explicit intention to do so, is to be prosecuted. Even in the debate on the Criminal Code, the LMP submitted its proposal, but the government in the new Btk only ended the private initiative as a procedural condition in the case of contact violence. We would make all kinds of sexual coercion and violence subject to ex officio persecution. These crimes are serious crimes against the human dignity and self-determination of the victim. We believe that the private sector of victims is protected by effective law enforcement, not by a private initiative to prosecute these crimes. The human dignity of victims can and must be served by the transformation of criminal proceedings to protect the victim, not the private initiative. The LMP is committed to the persecution of all forms of sexual violence and effective criminal protection.
u2017-10-17-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to live with a two-minute speech or a two-minute speech. Dear Parliament, Since... - yes, for two minutes, Congressman László Horváth, Fidesz.
u2017-10-17-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me respond to what has been said. I agree with Editing Sebestyén on many things with a good heart. It is true that when a child becomes a victim in a child protection facility and the victim becomes a victim, it is a very, very serious fracture. To deal with this and to treat the children's community that is also affected by such trauma, help must be given, professional assistance and even more assistance. What our legislative socialization is like, let everyone judge it in their own opinion, but in order to keep us going, not only the intention, but also the commitment, I don't think it can be debated. [[14.10]] It's a process. We have always said that we see this as a process, because there will never be a permanent optimal condition, and unfortunately, life always produces situations where there is a need for us to react. But it is certain - I would respond to Marta Demeter - that this government is committed to child protection. Our whole family policy is all about child protection. The mandatory kindergarten care, the expansion of free catering, the strengthening of families can all be described in one word, if you like, and this is child protection. In this, I believe, it is not the credit of the government, but its responsibility and duty, but it has taken on this responsibility, and it is constantly fulfilling its task. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-17-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Horváth. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur. [[Nándor Csepreghy reporting.]] Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy asked for the floor, and I would like to give the floor to Secretary of State Csepreghy, then to the author.
u2017-10-17-83	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. The bill we are discussing here also shows that there are some types of cases that impose an obligation of a political generation beyond its individual political convictions or views, and it is glad to see that there are cases in which this political conviction is second-rate compared to the importance of the case, so I thank you on behalf of the government for the support of oppositionists as well as pro-government speakers. I think that this type of protection obligation for the various levels of regulation that have been raised here is particularly important when we talk about fallen social groups that are able to protect themselves in a limited way, for example children in this case. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that, in addition to the possibility of parliamentary legislation, Parliament should consider the other means of guaranteeing protection in two ways. On the one hand, to reduce the risk of such situations becoming possible and, on the other hand, to tighten sanctions from this type of crime at a level that is as deterrent as possible to all such aberrated people. You can count on the government's full support in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-17-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am now giving the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, who obviously wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-10-17-85	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, First, allow me to thank you for your comments. The comments, the criticisms and comments expressed in the comments will be considered, and the forthcoming amendments will, of course, be considered. Although this debate was about the debate on three paragraphs today, we have gone beyond the three paragraphs, and we have talked about much more than these three sections contain. No one has complained that we are talking about the child protection warning system, that we are talking about the fact that in paedophile crimes, if committed to a minor's injury, there is no statute of limitations. Therefore, allow me to respond in one or two words to criticisms that I feel are somewhat unfair or unfounded, or rather I would like to say that I would like to reassure you that, on the one hand, much has happened in the area of child protection, including in the area of strengthening the child protection signalling system. After all, the series of legislative amendments that entered into force on 1 January 2017 proves that we have made a very big step forward in strengthening the child protection signalling system. I agree with my fellow Member, László Horváth, that this work, child protection, is a process. We are faced with new challenges, one of which is that abuse against children is often hidden, so one of our most important tasks is to ensure that the warning system detects child abuse as soon as possible. There has also been a lot of progress. The other goal that we can set out is that when a child abuse is discovered, the treatment should be as quick and as effective as possible. There's a lot going on here, too. Social debate: in the area of child protection, there are a large number of professionally high-level civil society organisations and representation organisations. Here I could say that the whole profession - I would not even consider the professions separately - is fully committed to ensuring that child protection is as strong as possible and that they should be thanked for the work they are doing. This work is not only the work that they do directly with children on the spot, but also thanks them for constantly coming and talking about their experiences. They tell us why a law amendment was good, and that it was good for them, and they tell them what else they need in order to do better work themselves. So going back to the comment and comment of my fellow Member, Mr Horváth: unfortunately, this work is continuous, there will always be new cases, there is always another challenge, there is always another task. We in Parliament, as Members of Parliament, as legislators, can correct laws, follow up on events. Finally, let me thank you once again for the comments, and we look forward to the amendments and consider them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-17-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill on the Wacław Fełczak Foundation until closure. The government referral is T/17784. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-17-87	Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Surely the Members in this House are well aware of the quote that, Polish, Hungarian two good friends, fight together and drink their wine, brave and brave both, bless both. Perhaps, though, they are less aware of the fact that the 19th century was a good place to be. This quote was written in the century by an unknown author. The scope of the bill before us is not a great bill, but, given its importance, it is all the more important, because it serves to maintain and further strengthen Polish-Hungarian friendship, which has been regarded as a value and resource for centuries. However, before I go into the details, allow me to briefly recall the most important stages in the common history of the Polish and Hungarian peoples. The findings of the period of residence show that Polish-Hungarian relations may not even be a thousand, but they are at least 1100 years old. Here, too, is the predecessor of Lech's successors, unlike many languages spoken in Europe, we Hungarians call them Poles. The first Polish holy martyr, the missionary Adalbert of Prague baptizing King Szent István, is also a very important figure, whose personality is a link in the history of the two nations even in this very early period of statehood. Our King Saint László was born in Poland in the early 1040s, as the son of Béla I. Then, in 1239, IV. Kinga, one of King Béla's daughters, married the son of Lesek, Prince Bolesław. [[14.20]] The Anjouk and later the Jagello era are the first 1335 King's meeting in Visegrád. Polish-Hungarian relations were lively both during the reform and during the 1848-49 Revolution and the War of Independence. In Hungarian events the figures familiar with Polish history played an important role, including the hero of the Hungarian War of Independence, József Bem. CHAPTER XX As an example of courage, Hungary refused to participate in the campaign of Germany in Hitler, Poland, and prohibited the transfer of German military trains in its territory. In fact, the Polish rescuer, Dr. József Antall, had a crucial role to play in creating a nest in Balatonboglár, where tens of thousands of Polish soldiers and civilians have found refuge. In 1956, the Polish thread is also important, since the demonstration of sympathy for the Poles gave the impetus to the revolutionary events. If you are Hungarian, we follow the Polish road with us - many chanted it as an opening point to the revolution, among those who march on Pest Street. Prior to the turn of 1989, some members of the Hungarian opposition had good relations with the Polish opposition, and the events in Poland and solidarity often affected Hungarian events as a catalyst. Today we celebrate the Memorial Day of Polish-Hungarian friendship on 23 March. So this is an unprecedentedly rich historical experience and relationship that we might think is self-evident, works in itself, and we do not have to make any particular effort to maintain it, but this is not the case. In the past, Polish-Hungarian friendship was generally fostered by some kind of dynastic relationship or joint cataclysm, because the two peoples suffered similar calamities, but they helped each other through trials. Today, however, thank God, there are no cataclysms of this kind, so there is a danger that the relationship arising from direct interdependence will not be created, or at least it will not become personal in the lives of young people, the new generation. This is why the idea of the Wacław Felczak Foundation was formulated, which the Prime Minister presented to the two peoples in his speech at Jagelló University in December 2016. The idea was to make Polish-Hungarian friendship a tangible reality, supported by personal experience, in young generations, thus continuing this tradition. Personal acquaintances and experiences can make young people more aware of the importance of friendship between the two peoples. The new generation thus growing up will already be characterised by a stronger sense of solidarity and a wider regional network of relations, with which the success of Polish-Hungarian political and economic cooperation can be further enhanced. Of course, it is no coincidence that the foundation was named after Wacław Felczak, since he was the historian of the 19th century. He was involved in the Hungarian-Polish relations of the Hungarian-Polish Revolution and Freedom Fight, and he was well-known to the Hungarians, because he spent the 1938-1939 academic year as a scholar of the Polish state in Hungary as a student of Eötvös College. During World War II, he worked as organizer of the illegal Warsaw-London-Paris courier service in Budapest, and until 1948-1956, he was a political prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment. Since January 1958, the Institute of History of Jagello University has been a teacher's assistant to Hungary and Yugoslavia, author of the book "Hungary Story." It is well described that he could only receive his professor's title in free Poland on 4 October 1993. Since the mid-1970s, he went back to Hungary. In 1987 he returned to the Eötvös College as a guest teacher and gave lectures at the Bibo College. On 23 October 1993, he died on the anniversary of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence in Warsaw. We are pleased that, although not even a year has passed since the intention was formulated, we can now report concrete steps. On the basis of its decision of June 2017, the Hungarian Government supports the establishment of the Felczak Fund, which supports Hungarian-Polish intellectual cooperation, with EUR 1 million a year. The resources needed for implementation are already available with immediate effect this year; thereafter, it will be insured annually in the chapter of the Ministry of Human Resources. The focus of the Foundation's activities is therefore to strengthen youth cooperation, which could further deepen current cooperation, both in the V4 cooperation and in the European Union's relations system. And how will this happen? The proposal submitted by the Government sets out several objectives for the Foundation's activities. The first is to raise awareness and pass on the tradition of Hungarian-Polish friendship, the importance of cooperation to young generations, and to strengthen youth cooperation and networking in this context. It was important to note in the proposal that cooperation could be encouraged in the deepest and most effective way by scientific and educational activities aimed at learning each other's language and culture. Of course, the task of strengthening cultural and sporting relations will also be included in the scope of activity. Finally, the role of the Foundation will be to support the projects of the organisations of the two peoples in different areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of both countries. To this end, the Foundation will co-opt new scholarships, youth cooperations, education, science, research programmes, culture, tourism or even entrepreneurial knowledge. On the part of the government, it will be the area of family and youth that will ensure the supervision and support of the institution. We considered it important to involve the stakeholders in thinking about the foundation, so on 1 September 2017, we also informed Polish-friendly organisations and personalities in Hungary, in the organization of the Ministry of Human Resources, and gave them the opportunity to express their comments and ideas. Dear Parliament, In our opinion, the greatest value of the foundation now being established lies in the fact that there will be a nameable, identifiable institution in Hungary, which will work every day to keep Polish-Hungarian relations moving at the level of everyday experiences, cooperation and everyday communities. Of course, we have already had the various channels that have nurtured this relationship, but now we can further strengthen it, we can start a pilot flame that burns independently of daily political and diplomatic events and cycles, and does not allow to sleep out or lose forward-looking civil initiatives between the two peoples. This will not only be of social, youth or emotional significance, but will lead to tangible results both in foreign policy and in the economy in the long term. I therefore ask you to consider the bill as part of and support a public agreement beyond party policy. Thank you for listening. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause for the independent benches.]]
u2017-10-17-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Richárd Hörcsik, President of the Commission, lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-17-89	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is very timely for the Parliament, with the assistance of the government, to establish an institutional framework for Polish-Hungarian friendship, which is intended to strengthen good relations, I would also say that it is intended to promote and extend across generations, in this case, as the Secretary of State has said, through the education of culture, sport, language and culture of each other and the strengthening of cooperation between social organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank God, we can see that Hungarian-Polish relations are now extremely diverse, thanks, among other things, to the living relations between more than a hundred Hungarian and Polish settlements, and I can safely say that they are thriving in twin and sister settlements. [[14.30]] For example, here in my constituency is the seat of my constituency, Sátoraljaújhely, and Zemplén's important cultural center, Sárospatak, has always placed a special emphasis on the care of Hungarian-Polish relations, for example, within the framework of the sister-town agreement with the city of Krosno. However, in addition to the fact that such contacts at municipal level are extremely important, further joint programmes and joint institutions will make it possible for the two peoples to develop friendly relations. As the Secretary of State has said, this friendship must not only be maintained, but must continue to work. In addition to language training, each other should be made available. For example, as the Transylvanian public transport links provided by companies owned by the Hungarian State are of particular strategic importance, the promotion of each other in the Polish-Hungarian context is also a priority. As we thank Polish entrepreneurs, for example, who connect Krakow and Warsaw to Budapest, we also need to pay attention to the fact that we still have work to do in this area. So strengthening the different segments of cooperation is our permanent and priority. The Fidesz-KDNP faction therefore welcomes the Prime Minister's initiative, and it is a pleasure that, on the basis of the agreement between the two governments, we can finally seal the relationship that, I believe, is unique in the history of both nations. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, however, not only this joyful development, but also the name giver of the new organization, as next week will be the 24th anniversary of Wacław Felczak's death. Although the history of Poles and Hungarians, as the Secretary of State said, is abundant in people who connect the two nations, I believe that we can't find anything better than Professor Felczak, whose way of life is XX. In the course of the century, it has proved to be exemplary not only in Poland, but also in Hungary. So that's why the name of the foundation is very appropriate. He was equally persecuted in the various dictatorships, and he could not be broken during the extended reign of left-wing extremes, as we know from his colleague, Professor István Kovács, who we all like, he never asked for his rehabilitation. After a decade of imprisonment, he began his scientific work with slow, hard work, and immediately revived or made alive his contacts in Hungary as soon as possible. In 1987, his period as a guest teacher at the Eötvös College, I believe, contributed not only to the construction of historians, but also to the process of system change in Hungary. Thank you, Professor. Ladies and gentlemen, The most beautiful of all, we may be able to summarize Wacław Felczak's life as an example with the lines of Julius Słowacki's poem. I quote: "Tell me, who know me: / I gave the years of my youth to your country. / I watched over the ship in danger. / And when it sank, I stayed where I was. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us all be examples of Professor Felczak's perseverance, his commitment to Polish-Hungarian relations and his patriotism. The foundation named after him, I believe, will face a serious challenge, because the standard is very high. There will be at least the same commitment to Polish-Hungarian relations as Wacław Felczak did. On behalf of myself and hopefully this House, I would like to wish you all the best of luck. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-90	Thank you very much, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, who spoke on behalf of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-17-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Like my previous comment, I will be brief - not so much - because this proposal is remarkably similar to the Habsburg Otto Foundation, and we have expressed our position in the debate on why we do not support the proposal. Those arguments are true here, too. This is also true because, of course, we do not have a problem with the person - Otto Habsburg, for example, we respect him in an extraordinary way, both collectively and personally - and we do not have a problem with the government's desire to allocate funds for certain priority purposes. However, we believe that the separation of these amounts for these purposes would also be possible in the current Hungarian legal system, which is covered in the budget, and there is also a possibility for this to happen. However, such, as I would say, we do not consider special institutions of law appropriate and good, and here I have to point out, unfortunately, that there have been rather serious public debates on the foundations of the state that have been and continue to this day. I am thinking of the central bank foundations, for example, where the central bank thought that it would lose its public money character for HUF 250 billion, and since these foundations have been operating, scandals have become virtually fidesz paying places. I think that the continuation of the opposition, as regards the foundations founded by the government, by the power, is not surprising, so our rejection is not related to the Polish-Hungarian friendship, not to the person bearing the name of the foundation, but to the legal arrangement with which the government intends to pursue these priority objectives, with which it intends to support it. Therefore, we cannot support the foundation for the reasons expressed in the debate on the Habsburg Otto Foundation and for the reasons I have just shown. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-17-92	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I now give the floor to Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-17-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Jobbik, we welcome the proposal before us. I would add with a bit of a head start that my fellow Member Bárándy's concern is not unfounded, so that is why we know about the maladministration of the organisations created by state organisations, state or government or ministries. I trust that, in advance of goodwill for a noble cause and a noble cause, anyone who participates in this organization with name, face in the lobby or background will be able to participate in this work on the basis of the criteria of competence and commitment, not, let us say, on the basis of his relationship with Viktor Orbán. Returning to the proposal, very briefly: this is for the sake of the foundation example we have been promoting for seven years now, missing the whole series of programmes of Hungarian-Polish friendship, not only in friendship, but in many other symbolic cases, where are the specifics, where are the concrete proposals that are primarily for future generations and young people. That is why I fully support the establishment of this foundation, the points that will finally make a meaningful shift to the future, these are the steps that have been missing or filling voids in the last seven years, which, unfortunately, have found deaf ears of what I have proposed, too. [[14.40]] I think that if we start out only from the last seven years, and from the Hungarian-Polish relationship, almost without exception, there has always been a delay in the past, and now I say this not in a negative sense, but we mention the symbolic issues back and forth, the glorious and truly tremendously rich common historical events, people, the relationships that bind these two nations here and again a thousand years ago, but very little and almost nothing about how we imagine the next thousand years, for example, in Hungarian-Polish relations. Therefore, I consider the training and deepening of children, schoolchildren and young people to be the most prominent task, an excellent tool, as I have suggested, for example, why a joint Hungarian-Polish government meeting has not been set up or initiated, where appropriate, with other countries. I also suggested this to the Secretary of State. Similar programmes and specifics could be planned in such forums. I think it wouldn't be baseless. Once again, this is a joyful institution that will come into existence, and I trust that it is not the first and not the last. There are many other points in common culture, education, history, religious tourism, in which there would be meaning, an important purpose to create such cases, whether it is agriculture, trade or any other segment of the economy, where it is a mistake not to take advantage of Hungarian-Polish relations. I trust that this proposal before us is the first slice of a series as a whole, if you will, or step zero, and there will be many more similar in other matters. Of course, the Jobbik will support it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-94	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now I'm going to ask you if anyone's applying for a two-minute or longer speech. [[For signal:]] I see a report, and Richard Hörcsik wants a word for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2017-10-17-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, My colleague, Mr Mirkóczki, urged me to give a brief thought to my fellow Member. Thank God Hungarian-Polish relations are not only about commemorations, but also about the initiative launched by Marek Kuchciński, President of the Seym six years ago, is the idea of a Europe of the Carpathians. I've been going to these conferences for almost six years, and the last time we spoke about it was at the international economic conference. This has its first advantage, specifically the construction of the so-called Via Carpatia, which I believe will bring Poland closer to Hungary or vice versa. As a result, the construction of the M30 between Miskolc and Košice started, and the construction of road 19 from Slovakia to Gdańsk, the construction of the motorway is also beginning. So here is a living link to the fact that Parliament can be the engine of economic cooperation. I would also like to thank the President of my seymour for his persistent work on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-17-96	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki for two minutes.
u2017-10-17-97	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly. I may have misunderstood. I did not say - I say to my fellow Member Hörcsik - that nothing has happened and that there are no points containing concrete and cooperation. I say that, unfortunately, I perceive a person who, as vice president of the Hungarian-Polish section, has been active for seven years, not only in official but also in informal Polish-Hungarian events, I find that unfortunately there is a distorted tipping on a certain imaginary scale that tends to be more about symbolic affairs and memory. And it is precisely matters such as the motorway, or there is a railway line planned, or I can mention the creation of the Polish-Hungarian dictionary, which was also recently decided; so there have been a lot of demands for which I really appreciate that it is only the political will that is missing, but I would not even say that it is missing, that it is rather late or that it is delayed or that it is failing. That is why I consider this a very good proposal, and I am trying to inspire you and all of us to make the concrete proposals that have already been made, which have been made in many cases by both Polish and Hungarian parties, and we are beginning to implement it year after year, and I think that this will work smoothly. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr János Schanda.
u2017-10-17-99	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for your comments and comments. I'm not surprised that the socialists don't support the Felczak Foundation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why not?]] Not even in terms of the name giver. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's not the person we're dealing with, Mr. Secretary.]] Thank you for your comments. I would just like to say to Mr Mirkóczki that it is really important to further develop these youth cooperations, but fortunately these cooperations are not unprecedented, as there are already exchanges, whether under Erasmus Plus or CEEPUS, over a thousand young people can learn in another country and take part in training. Once again, thank you very much for your comments, and I would ask you to support the bill and to monitor the activities of the foundation. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-100	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between Hungary and the Republic of Austria on cooperation between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Austria in order to prevent and combat cross-border crime, which was signed in Heiligenbrunn on 6 June 2004, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/17564. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-17-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The agreement signed between Hungary and the Republic of Austria on 6 June 2004 was basically good for the safety of both countries. The Treaty has been amended because it is necessary to do so because of practical experience and organisational changes that have taken place since then. The Protocol was drawn up after thorough preparatory work and signed in Hegyeshalom on 4 September 2017. The Protocol expands the areas for the exchange of information on cross-border crime, corruption, illegal migration, and is a new element in cooperation in preventing, preventing and detecting financial crime. When the proposal is adopted, cooperation will be established in combating corruption and official crime, cross-border measures in rail and shipping, police transit, road safety and escort to cross-border sporting events. Dear Parliament, The signed protocol also allows the National Defence Service and the Counter-Terrorism Centre to exchange information directly with the Austrian co-organisations and the parties may provide cover numbers to each other. The Protocol also lays down rules for the use of motor vehicles, aircraft and vessels in the territory of the other Contracting State. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, According to the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Protocol, which is why, following the signature, the Protocol was submitted to this House. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill, as it serves the interests of the safety of both parties, including Hungary and the Hungarian people, in the event of its adoption. That is why I ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-17-102	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-17-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The draft law on the publication of the Protocol amending the Treaty on cooperation between Hungary and Austria to prevent and combat cross-border crime, signed in Heiligenbrunn on 6 June 2004, clearly contributes to guaranteeing the security of Hungary. I believe that it is extremely important for law enforcement agencies to be able to keep up with changing, increasingly modern criminal methods. Effective action against international organised crime is, I believe, perhaps the easiest way to achieve it is through cross-border police cooperation. The amendment of the contract was initiated by the Austrian party in May 2010 due to practical experience gained in the period after its entry into force and to changes in the organisation. In my opinion, this amendment will extend the scope of the Treaty, in addition to the bodies authorised to carry out crime prevention and law enforcement tasks, as the Secretary of State said, the authorities empowered to maintain public security and public order and to carry out traffic police tasks will also be involved. Ladies and gentlemen, We can see that the Protocol extends the areas of information exchange by providing information on all forms of cross-border crime or corruption and illegal migration, as well as new forms of cooperation. If there is an actuality of this amendment, I believe this is today or these years, when so many illegal migrants are trying to come from Hungary or Hungary to Austria. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposal before us is aimed at maintaining public order and public security by helping the instruments of international law, because it is desirable that our law enforcement agencies, in countries bordering our country, can act easily or effectively to protect Hungarian interests and the security of Hungarian people. The Fidesz Group supports the protection of the country's sound public security and public order by legislation similar to the proposal. I would ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-17-104	Thank you very much, Congressman Hörchik. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-17-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the amendment of the contract is necessary because of the practical experience gained over the period after its entry into force and the organisational changes that have taken place. The amendment will extend the scope of the contract, in addition to the bodies authorised to carry out crime prevention and law enforcement tasks, public security and public order, as well as the authorities authorised to carry out traffic police tasks. The Protocol also provides for new forms of cooperation: cooperation in combating corruption and official crimes, cross-border measures in rail and shipping, police transit, cooperation in road safety and escort to cross-border sporting events. The Hungarian Socialist Party considers that this presentation, as my fellow member, Fidesz, said in his speech, is in Hungary's national interest, and the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-17-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-17-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there is a bill before us, or an international treaty, which I think it is timely to extend. My fellow Member, Richard Hörcsik, spoke about the fact that, if there is something timely, the amendment of this law or the amendment of this convention is timely today. We say the same thing, but not only for the reason that Richard Hörcsik said it, but also for a completely different reason, we think that it is very timely to amend it. There are obviously technical amendments in this, because when the Hungarian Fundamental Law amended the official name of Hungary and instead of the Republic of Hungary, it became Obviously, this is only a technical amendment, but there are also very important amendments. This and one of the most important issues is cooperation on illegal migration. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been calling the government's attention in this regard from the moment that illegal migration started at the borders of Hungary to do everything possible to stop illegal migration. We found that at the beginning the Fidesz-KDNP government did not invest everything in this, did not take illegal migration seriously, obviously it was no accident that Hungary was overrun by illegal migrants, and illegal migrants were tenting around the Keleti railway station almost lifestyle. We have already drawn attention to this fact, that Hungary must prevent this, and we were the first to propose the construction of the fence in this respect. We were the ones who suggested that the military should be deployed at our southern borders, because unfortunately, the border guards had already been abolished, which should not have been abolished, and Jobbik went on to do so, and suggested the restoration of the border guards, that there should be an expert armed force in Hungary that ensures that the Hungarian borders are illegally inaccessible, which, to this day, the Fidesz-KDNP government still refuses to accept. Thank God our proposal for a fence has been accepted, thank God's leadership of the military on the southern borders has finally been accepted, and so we are able to keep the southern border areas virtually safe today so that migrants cannot cross it illegally and so that they cannot enter the territory of Hungary. Collaborating with Austria on this is another very important thing. I think that the Austrians have something to learn from Hungary here, and Hungary can be an example in this respect for Austria. It is no coincidence that there are major changes in domestic policy, major changes in the leadership of the country, and we can probably expect that Austria's policy in this direction will be significantly changed in the near future. So I think that cooperation is very important, and here too, this protocol also refers to a type of crime that goes hand in hand with this wave of migrants, which has reached Hungary, and this is smuggling of people. And how important it is to cooperate with the appropriate authorities in the two countries is to show what has happened in our region over the last few years. What we see is that it has become business-like, and it is partly through Hungary that this trafficking route leads to Austria, so obviously the two countries are dependent on each other in all respects, both from neighbouring relations and from the migration route. Here we must highlight the worst case that has occurred: August 20, 2015, when Pandorfalva In his area, 71 migrant bodies were discovered in a closed cargo vehicle; 59 men, 8 women and 4 children died in unfortunate and terrible circumstances due to human smuggling. [[15.00]] Obviously, we also learned that in Hungary, at the southern border, these migrants, so to speak, were carpooled, and that their bodies were found in Austria. So this also shows how dependent the two countries are on each other. And the authorities of the two countries, I think, have been exemplary in their cooperation on this issue, and we hope that this will continue to happen in the future, and this will help to better eliminate the problems of smuggling people, and what is meant to prevent these crimes will be the easiest way to achieve them. I would like to talk about another problem, in which we are not the ones who are setting an example for Austria, but Austria is setting an example for us - and here again I would like to quote my fellow Member Richard Hörcsik's words that this amendment is more timely than it has ever been - and this is a question of corruption. It is very important that this proposal also addresses the persecution of corruption between the two countries, the persecution of corruption crimes and their functioning at international level. This is very important for the government not only to address it at the level of communication, but also to take real steps to combat corruption. After all, if we look at where these countries stand on the world list of corruption, unfortunately, Hungary will find shocking data. If you look at it, in 2014 Hungary was ranked 47th. He managed to make it worse in a year, and by 2015, he moved back to the 50th place, then in 2016 Hungary was 57-59th place. This, I think, is a shocking thing, and I think we can still be proud to be ahead of Somalia and North Korea, even better than we are in these countries. But I don't think we can be very proud of that. If we translate the same with regard to the European Union, for the European Union, which is still 28 Member States, we can see that Hungary was 21 out of 28, which is not exactly a prestigious place, which made its situation worse in 2015, it was 22-24 in the dead race, and then it managed to make it worse to 16, 24-25 in the 28 Member States. So we are almost the last, I think Bulgaria and Greece will be prevented, and Romania and I are in a dead race in this area. If we look at Austria, we see that it was 23 worldwide in 2014, so Hungary was 47 at the same time, then it improved it to 16th and 17th place in the world. At EU level, however, it was 10th in 14th and 9th. In 15th and 9th. In 16 against our 24-25th place. So I think that we have something to learn from Austria in this regard, and we should go in this direction, but what we see is that, unfortunately, under the governance of Fidesz-KDNP, Hungary is sinking into the swamp of corruption. And why you are sinking into the swamp of corruption, I would like to say a few things about this. According to experts, the lack of transparency of government is one of the reasons why we have fallen here. With regard to the lack of transparency of government, Hungary is in the 119th place in a field of 144 people - the 144 countries of the world. So what we can see is that government acts in Hungary are opaque, so we are one of the worst countries in the world. And the reasons for this have also been examined: that the government regularly abuses its power; that the government regularly favours business groups and oligarchs close to the government; that the government regularly enforces this legislation, taking advantage of the majority of Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament; that the government systematically liquidates institutions that control the government's power; that recently the freedom of businesses, the right to property, has been damaged; that laws have been created that seriously violate the principles of the rule of law; that public funds are distributed inaccessible; that the person of the oligarchs may change in Hungary [[The president's ringing the bell.]] but not the source of their economy; [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] buddy capitalism with public funds from the European Union and Hungary...
u2017-10-17-108	With all due respect, Mr President, I would like to ask you to return to the original motion. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes, that's part of my point of view, but I'll be back.]] Thank you very much.
u2017-10-17-109	I'll be back. And support for sports clubs that are half-secret. So these are the reasons why Hungary is in such a bad place in the world ranking for corruption. I think that if we were really serious about this convention and that Hungary was continuing to fight corruption, it would certainly be beneficial, but as long as this stays at the level of conventions in writing and the government does nothing to combat corruption in Hungary, it will be difficult to enforce it. There is another important issue in this agreement, which has been highlighted already in the case of speakers before me, and this is the escort to cross-border sports events on football, as well as the legislation on this. We have no problem with this escort, and I think that the Hungarian authorities are the most familiar with the Hungarian group of fans, they know what kind of behaviour should be shown against them, and there is no problem with that. I would like to point out that, as far as Austria and Hungary are concerned, this is already an exemplary implementation, I do not remember the exact date, but in the nineties, when the Hungarian team won 3:1 in the Prater, Vienna, in an important match, and the Hungarians provided order in the Hungarian sector. But there is also a negative example of this, and in this connection I would like to draw attention to the fact that in Article 20, this amendment concerns the provision of certain data on these cheerleading groups. I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that in many cases this could be a negative one, and I would like to draw the government's attention to a very important example in this regard, namely, on 16 September 1992, a dark date from the history of football in Bratislava, in the Slovan and Ferencváros match. [[Károly Kontrat: What's that got to do with it, Mr. President?]] This is important and the reason why this football match is here is because it serves as a negative parable, when the police hand over data about Hungarian fans to foreign authorities, and the foreign authority will abuse data against Hungarian fans. This is what happened in 1992, where there was a serious abuse of Fradi fans, which caused an international scandal, and caused a serious deterioration in relations between Hungary and Slovakia. So this is a delicate area where the transfer of data must be handled with caution by the government, and I would like to draw the government's attention to this. By the way, the amendment of the international convention itself, I think that it is moving forward in all respects, following in all respects the changes that both Hungary and Austria must follow in the field of law enforcement. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the Convention. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-17-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I now give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who is about to speak.
u2017-10-17-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the speakers of Fidesz and MSZP for their support for the bill. I would also like to respond separately to the comments of Mr Csaba Gyüre, who expressed his views on border surveillance on the one hand. I would like to say that, according to our position, and the facts prove that the border hunting units of the Hungarian police, together with the military, perform their duties excellently at the southern border and across the borders of Hungary. I would also like to thank the staff of the Hungarian police and the staff of the military, who are serving here. [[15.10]] The experience of the past ten years has shown that this new form of organisation, as a result of which the police carry out border surveillance tasks in the police force, is in Hungary's interest. I ask the Member to respect the Hungarian police, the Hungarian border hunters. If today has not voted for the bill that allowed their average wage increase of 5 percent in 2018, then at least give the Hungarian police the respect they deserve here in this House. I reject your comment on corruption, in particular your confusion with regard to government corruption, Congressman. Seven-and-a-half hooted [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Based on all facts, Mr. Secretary of State.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Government of Hungary has declared zero tolerance against corruption. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Systematic!]] We declared zero tolerance against corruption. We created laws, such as the establishment of the National Defence Service, which was also not supported, which is a serious weapon in the fight against corruption... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: They created systemic corruption!]] Mr President, please allow the Member to listen to me. I listened, I listened patiently, it wasn't easy, but it's my job. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Excuse me.]] Now I'm asking you to listen. So the government will use all means to counter corruption. We are trying to ensure that zero tolerance prevails in Hungary. We will not tolerate any corruption, and it will lead the government's policy in these matters. We are confident that these measures and previous measures will also help us to move forward on this very important issue. By the way, as far as the country's security is concerned, it can be said that there are two types of countries: there is security and there is a country where there is no security. In Hungary there is order and security. Thank you to our excellent police officers. In return to corruption, allow me, Congressman, to hold a mirror to you: Béla Kovács, the betterman of the European Parliament, looks out for corruption. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: He was terminated because he didn't do anything!]] I think that if in this and in the case of Jobbik's corruption... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Say one thing.]] - Honourable Member, if you'll listen, I'll continue. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] - so you're gonna have to come up with that. I believe that if you really care about corruption, you will not tolerate these phenomena. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, By the way, Congressman Csaba Gyüre allowed himself to make unsuitable remarks to the bill, with his heart and soul on it. I ask the Honourable Parliament that, since this is the bill, this amendment meets the interests of both Austria and Hungary, I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-10-17-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your patience. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The general debate of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road border bridges and border sections at the common state borders until closure. The government referral is T/17781. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-17-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill provides for the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road border bridges and border sections at a common state border. The purpose of the bill is to incorporate the agreement into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, it is necessary to publish the Agreement at a legal level. Previously, an agreement concluded in the summer of 2007 settled the conditions for the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of bridges and highways crossing the borders of the two countries, which require increased cooperation between the authorities of the States. The management of bridges that have been built since then, the inclusion of experience so far and the improvement of the effectiveness of implementation required a complete renewal of the old agreement. The Agreement was signed on 14 September 2014 in Budapest. In the future, the agreement will help to strengthen infrastructure cooperation between Hungary and Slovakia and further increase bilateral relations. In the development of transport connections, the development of the refurbished Mária Valéria Bridge in Esztergom 16 years ago is also the foundation stone of the new Duna Bridge in Komárom at the time of my speech. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament that, in the light of what has been said, T/17781. Please support bill number 1. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik applauds.]]
u2017-10-17-114	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-17-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/17781 in front of us. Legislative proposal No.1, as Minister of State said, between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic, it concerns the announcement of an agreement between the Government of Hungary on the operation, maintenance and reconstruction of road border bridges and border sections at the common state borders, thus continuing an existing good practice. It is practical and practical that the burdens of operating the infrastructure at the border are shared between the two countries, I might say, with common sense. Hungary operates three Ipoly bridges, one Boldva, two Ronyva and one canal bridge beyond five kilometres of the border. Slovakia has three Ipoly bridges, for example in my constituency there is a Hernád bridge in Abaújvár, a crossing over Ronyva and two canal bridges, and two of the road bridges over the Danube are operated by Hungary and two by our northern neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the reasons for the international treaty before us is that the number of joint-owned crossings has steadily increased in recent years, thanks to God. The construction of new roads and new bridges serves Hungary's two important objectives or comprehensive goals: on the one hand, it also serves to facilitate relations with Hungarians across borders and, on the other hand, to improve the relationship between border areas. We are well aware, my fellow Members, that in many cases the areas affected by investments have been peripheral on both sides of the border, and there has been a large number of sack settlements either in Hungary or in Slovakia, because they have lost their former natural regional centres. For example, Abaúj's centre in Hungary has always been Košice, it was slaughtered in 1920, and unfortunately, the villages of Abaúj lost their traditional markets. Indeed, this caused the region to be put back. But it can be a great help in itself to have the opportunity to cross over, to communicate. But building such bridges is actually just the beginning of the process that the Hungarian government started recently. The economic development programme, which was first launched by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in South-Hungary and Transcarpathia in neighbouring countries, has already been launched in the Highlands. [[15.20]] We are seeing more and more examples of closer links, but I would like to stress that we cannot expect any events if the infrastructure conditions do not provide for this. Until then, it's just a word and no practice. Dear House, I would like to quote the words of Minister Szijjártó, when I refer to the fact that the density of the crossings, the average distance between them, is still very, very high, so much needs to be done to reduce this distance by building further crossings. I am convinced, fellow Members, that this convention also draws attention to the fact that the construction of the Ipoly bridges has unfortunately slowed down, even though there are still dozens of places that we could list in addition to some of the crossings under preparation, where there was a bridge earlier. There are still points, for example, in my constituency, in Zemplén and during Bodrog, where it would be desirable to restore natural or historical connections between neighbouring settlements. For example, the link between Dámóc and Belély, Karcsa and Kiskövesd, Pácin and Örös or Alsóregmec and Széphalom would also be strengthened by a road that is accessible not only on foot but also by bicycle. When building such roads and bridges, we can be sure that the contract before us will ensure that the operation and care of the artifact at the state border will be legally arranged. Ladies and gentlemen, When amending the international treaty allowing the construction of the Abaújvár-Kinehec bridge, I had the opportunity to list the figures that proved the benefit of such an artifact. I believe it is important to say now about the treaty that it helps to facilitate something, so to speak. However, I must also point out that we should not just look strictly at numbers, we should look at them through the glasses of a kind of profit, because these roads and bridges serve important comprehensive goals, despite the fact that there is an area in which we are less exploited, but there is also a God of gratitude which, for example, the Abaujvár-Keyec bridge is increasingly used by traffic. I could also say that the effects of the peace system after World War I can only be mitigated step by step by step by step by such additional means as such international treaties. Even if new border crossings are not used in the same way by the population of our country and our neighbour in the north, we need to be given priority. In fact, those areas in Hungary that lie more far away from the current county centre than there is an earlier county seat on the other side of the border can also benefit from becoming competitive with their services and talents for those coming from the other side of the border. However, the situation is also true vice versa, because in many cases such crossings can also serve to improve relations within their borders. Building the bridge in Helemba from the settlements in West Börzsöny would make it easier to get through the Mária Valéria bridge in Párkány, for example, Esztergom. The increase in the number of crossings is therefore of common interest, but our moral responsibility, I believe, dictates that we will bear this burden even if there is not enough openness on the side of the neighbouring state in some detail. Indeed, we have seen this often. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the proposals for amendments to facilitate the implementation of the old agreement and the clarity of the text have been made in large numbers since the time being, the parties have rightly agreed that it is necessary to adopt a new agreement instead of simply amending the old agreement. Thanks to the good relations between our states, we have also done this task smoothly, so there is nothing left but for the Parliament to authorise the recognition of the agreement with this law. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-17-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Hörchik. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-17-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would also forward that the MSZP fraction supports this proposal for a number of reasons. You have listed quite a few of them, my fellow Member Hörcsik, and perhaps I would like to add or add a few things, and then I would like to address a question to the Secretary of State. The infrastructure network is a priority for cross-border economic cooperation, so if we want these links to be as smooth as possible, then one of the important points or advantages in this area is infrastructure development, and thus it is possible to really help cross-border economic relations. The other, of course, because of Hungarians across the border, was also mentioned by Mr Hörcsik. But let me give you an example that may sound less often in this House. This is that there are significant amounts of Slovak citizens living in Hungary, because they have bought up a lot of real estate and they come to work in Bratislava, because in Bratislava, real estate prices are such that they can't do that, and people come to work from the Szigetköz 10-15-20 kilometers away. That's the only way this makes sense for a particular reason. In English, we therefore support this initiative. But I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary one thing on the basis of his expozee, because he said that this is also a useful and good initiative for the development of international contractual relations between the two countries. But there's a case that has just been on its anniversary, which, on the other hand, has been missing for a very long time from the point of view of settlement between the two countries. This is a legal dispute over the Bős-Nagymaros water escape. In 1997, the international court - in fact simplifying - condemned both parties and the two governments for this treaty, and if I remember correctly, from the 150-160 cases that the Hague International Court has negotiated, this has been the oldest legal procedure or disputa, dispute, conflict between the governments of two countries. In this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, once again, because it is around these weeks that there is an anniversary of this event, how it stands. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has been asked on several occasions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs about how so-called more sensitive, unpleasant or conflicting matters between the two countries stand, and they have been removed from the agenda by the fact that the relationship between the two countries was not so good and they do not want to burden these issues with various Hungarian national minorities or other conflicts. But this is not specifically a question relating to minorities, but rather a question relating to the economy. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether the Government has done something to ensure that this international conflict is resolved in some form. This is particularly exciting because Hungary is now the President-in-Office of the V4. The government is constantly talking about the excellent relationship between the V4 countries and how conflict-free these relations are. That is why I thought it was relevant to ask the Secretary of State how the economic government intends to resolve this issue. By the way, a lot of people are wondering about this during the Island. Not long ago, I was there myself, and many forums raised this question. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-17-118	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-17-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian-Slovak border road border bridges and border sections were maintained, maintained and operated in 2007, but since then several new bridges have been built, fortunately, such as the Ipoly Bridge between Vámosmikola and Ipolypászto, or the Hernád Bridge between Abaújvár and Kenyhec, and experiences have accumulated that justified the review of the convention. As a result of the volume of changes, it is necessary to establish a completely new agreement. [[15.30]] The maintenance of these roads and bridges is particularly important for Hungary, as Hungarians live in several settlements on the other side of the border, and I would like to underline this aspect, since it is essential for Hungarian-Hungarian relations to be maintained that further steps be taken either in terms of road connections or in relation to border bridges. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary always applies national policy when it comes to a similar agreement. I think it is important that, following the progress that has been made so far, we will be able to show further success. In our own electoral program, we have shown each time the elements that emphasized the importance of contact with our brothers and sisters in torn areas. The practical importance of this is, of course, not only in cultural relations but also in such connections, which represent economic, infrastructure progress. I therefore hope that we will be able to report further results in the next period. For our part, we can undertake that if we receive confidence from the voters next year and have the opportunity to lead the country, we will, of course, prioritise relations with our brothers and sisters in the Highlands, or contact with any other Hungarian community living in a torn area. The bill before us, of course, is supported by our group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-10-17-120	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Bana. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm going to ask if anyone wants to live with the possibility of a two-minute or longer speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an applicant on the screen, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the secretary of state, János Fónagy, who is about to speak.
u2017-10-17-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the parliamentary factions present for their support for the bill. It is clear that this is necessary not only for the last ten years, but also for the continuation of the work that has been going on for decades. Obviously, this work is essential for Hungary in both economic and Hungarian political and national policy matters. For two things, I was happy to tell you about this expo. In part, I lived in Gömör in Hungary for nearly 40 years, and in my day-to-day work, I was able to suffer the absence of these roads and bridges at that time, and I can therefore especially appreciate the benefits of their existence. The other: I had the decency to report myself to Prime Minister Dzurinda and Prime Minister Orbán at the time to the Maria Valéria Bridge. Therefore, I did not mention today in my Expos that today the foundation of a new bridge in Komárom - looking at the clock - has already happened. Indeed, for Hungarians living in cross-border areas, and thus for Hungarians in the Highlands, the infrastructure enabling connectivity and mobility is essential, as it is important for Hungary and the Hungarian economy. In answer to Mr Mesterházy's question, I do not want to bypass or leave the answer, Mr Bős-Nagymaros is indeed an open case. The issues in which a rapid international agreement was needed at the time, whether it is the issue of water supply or the bottom line, Hungary has taken the necessary steps by making appropriate compromises and sometimes adopting them. At present, the negotiation between the two governments is indeed, as I believe Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, in the spirit of and in line with the current undisturbed relationship between the two countries. So if there is any change in this or if the Hungarian Parliament's involvement is necessary, the government will immediately submit it to the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you once again for your support, and I ask that this should also be reflected in the vote. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-10-17-122	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Good day. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 15:36 p.m.]]
