u2017-03-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce the death of a fellow Member, Peter Kozma, who died in the 58th year of his life. Peter Kozma was a Member of Parliament for three cycles. For the first time in the 1998 elections, he was elected president of the Fidesz county party from the regional list of Fidesz Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. Since 1994 he has been a member of the party's national election. He has been a member of the Committee on Territorial Development since 1998 and has been a member of the Committee on the Protection, Conflict of Interest and Deputies and of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Justice and the Order of Procedure. He participated in the work of the ad hoc committee for the preparation of the Constitution. Between 2014 and 2017, he worked as a government official at the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County Government Office. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a pre - agenda speech entitled "Billions of Rent in Fidesz offshore companies. " The congressman has the floor.
u2017-03-06-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Why is it that 10 percent of the population in Hungary cannot heat their apartment properly? Why is it that a lot of real estate doesn't have a bathroom, there's no toilet, but the roof gets wet? Why is it that every fifth Hungarian has rent and rent debts? Why is Hungary the fourth worst housing situation in the European Union? Why is it that, since the beginning of last winter, more than 106,000 households have been suspended due to fees due to electricity, gas or district heating? Ladies and gentlemen, The answer is quite simple: more than half of the Hungarian people manage with less money overall than in 2010, because during the governance of the Urizing Fidesz elite, social inequalities continued to increase and the wealth gap continued to increase. This is bad for the vast majority of people, but it is good for the chosen, the Urizing Fidesz, the Cashiers, the Garancsi and the Rogans. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz considers energy prices to be higher than justified because some people can profit from them. That is why our proposals for reducing energy prices have been voted down six times. And who are those who profit from it? We can remember the ominous gas-offshore scandal, the case of MET and METI, where 10 percent of the gas price reductions were stolen. This was the series of transactions where nearly HUF 100-150 billion from the state came from offshore companies to Viktor Orbán's rope friend. This is the deal that would continue today if we did not expose it together with fact-finding journalists and civil society organisations. You're attacking civilians, for example. However, the Orbán-Putin pact, which the oligarchs close to Fidesz are extremely happy about, and the Russian state, as they will provide the loan. However, the electricity will be more expensive, the investment will not be repaid, but at least for decades Hungary will be indebted and delivered to Russia. That is why we say that after a wide-ranging social debate, a referendum should be made on the power plant. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of profiteering, we can't leave without saying a word about Hunguard Kft. put us in Fidesz' position. in addition to his case, which carries out so-called audit activities in Hungarian public service providers. This is the certification activity on which the managers of public utility companies owned by the Fidesz municipalities also say that it is completely unnecessary and even expensive. This certification activity, of which Hungaard Kft. bought several billion forints with a 54 percent profit margin, took 600 million forints from public or municipal owned public service companies. He took this from all of us, from all Hungarian consumers. And this is the certification activity in which it cannot be excluded that this company has access to any sensitive business information or customer information. And this is the company that used to belong to the inventor of Antal Rogán, and now it's hand-in-hand owned by an offshore company. This is the Cypriot company whose managing director is Christos Kinanis, the scandalous businessman who was also included in the Panamanian offshore documents. The real owner is unknown, but you may know; tell me if so. Ladies and gentlemen, Socialists want to make sure and decent living available to everyone. This is why we have previously supported all price moderation proposals, and that is why we recommend that energy prices continue to be reduced, because energy is cheaper in the international market and Hungarian people pay the same amount. [[13.10]] And at least on World Energy Saving Day [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] Let us make it clear that people's energy savings should not be facilitated by making services unattainable, as Fidesz does, but by supporting efficient solutions, by renovating buildings as we propose; and profiteering leeches should be removed from Hungarian public service companies. It is time to tidy up the utility system in the public utility sector. I ask you to support our proposals for this, for Hungary, for a common future. Thank you for listening.
u2017-03-06-2	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. [[For signal:]] I was wrong. I'm sorry. Secretary of State Aradsk has the floor.
u2017-03-06-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The first question of Bertalan Tóth's comment was why. Please respectfully, it is because you governed Hungary between 2002 and 2010 by leading Hungary to bankruptcy. [[Dr. László Kács: No! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Wasn't it Lajos Kósa?]] Over EUR 10 billion of loans have been taken from the European Central Bank [[Dr. László Kács: Now, from the Russians, that's much better!]] and the IMF. This EUR 10 billion has gone to pensions, for teachers, teachers, doctors' salaries, that is to say, their earned jobs could not be paid by you in any other way than on loans or loans. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: At least they got a normal salary.]] Fortunately, after 2010, it became a national government that came to Hungary that was able to repay this $10 billion. [[Dr. László Kács: Where are you from?]] There's no doubt that Paks II. Hungary will borrow nearly EUR 10 billion for investment, but this will have an impact [[Dr. László Kács and Dr. Bernadett Wind: Sure!]] I'll get the results, a Paks II. investment, which will provide Hungary with the power supply in the long term as a modern investment. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Long live the '60s!]] I think this is a more important event. [[Noise in the benches of opposition parties.]] like spending EUR 10 billion on goals to save the salaries of Hungarians, to save the salaries of teachers and teachers, because your activities have led us here. [[Dr. István Józsa: Oops! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Dr. László Szakács repeatedly intervene.]] The other part, honourable Member, is that you have not been in favour of the reduction from the outset. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is the reduction of the rent?]] You have raised the price of gas five times, double the price of electricity under your government. Compared to this, we reduced the price of gas and electricity by 25 percent from 1 January 2013. Compared to this, you said to put gas supplies and electricity charges on the market. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] This market fund, honourable Member, would result in what the European Commission also recognises as a 20% increase in electricity prices between 2010 and 2015, with a 25% increase in gas prices in countries where this service was not priced to consumers on a market basis. [[Zoltán Pride: How much now? How much since then?]] ; 20 and 25 percent. The situation today, my honourable fellow Member, is that, in contrast to your governance, the price of gas is the second cheapest in Hungary in terms of European Union countries, and the price of electricity is the fifth cheapest. [[Complaining from the opposition benches: Much more ravaged...]] If you think there is room and space for further reductions, I must say that this position, the needle of this disk - if there is still such a sound player - is stuck around April. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Now, if we were to listen to you, we would have to increase the price of gas by 15 percent. You don't want to do this. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] You do not want this to happen if, by the way, you are socially sensitive to the needs of voters and Hungarian citizens, but you have always served the interests of multinationals. [[Dr. László Kács: You and the Russians!]] they have always insisted that the worse the Hungarian people are, the better for you. [[Dr. László Kács: Better serve the Russians!]] Under our government, this has not happened, and it will not happen. At the moment, we are strongly resisting changing the system of setting electricity prices on a market basis rather than on a regulated price, at the request of the European Commission, Brussels, because then we would hold it again, as under your governance, that we should double the price of electricity or increase the price of gas by five times. [[A voice from the benches of MSZP:]] Dear fellow Member, The answer to your question in any case is that your government put the country in a situation in 2010 that was on the verge of bankruptcy. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Hungary was in the same condition compared to the Greek situation. But let's look at Hungary's progress after 2010. [[Dr. László Kács: Watch out for Moscow! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Government debt has been classified, the country's economic situation has been rated, while Greece is back in bankruptcy, in line with your policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-4	President Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The Government ignores the opinion of the people. Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2017-03-06-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I must point out that Paks enlargement is the most important issue in Hungary's next decades. Two catastrophic mistakes can be made in this regard. One mistake is that if we maintain and even increase the share of nuclear power in this country, and the other is a catastrophic error if we do this on credit. The May Other Politics protested in Parliament, protested on the street, asked for the head of state, supposedly so dedicated to future generations and sustainability, to intervene, but apparently we do not have allies among politicians. However, the May Other is absolutely determined, we will protect Hungary from this completely catastrophic step. We are aware that we are dealing with a very powerful alliance. There is the government of Viktor Orbán, the international nuclear lobby, there is Moscow with Vladimir Putin, and now there is Brussels. Thus, together they created a coalition against which common sense is opposed and the Hungarian national interest is opposed. You have created a completely filthy business with the expansion of Paks, with the help of which you want to link the lives of Hungary, our children, our grandchildren and our great-grandsons to the atomic lobby. And many people in this room and outside this room, those who stand behind you and submit the bill, are hoping for a great profit. Only the atomic lobbi circling Budapest and Paks, including the government of Viktor Orbán, forgot one thing. You forgot to ask the Hungarian people about their position on this issue. But he also forgot to ask politicians, because there was no political debate on this issue in this country, and he also forgot to ask experts who no one in the Hungarian Parliament has listened to in the last 27 years. But they'll forget 2008 too, but I won't forget that. You argued with the Gyurcsány Kortal whether they had the right to stop the Hungarian people by referendum for the then government interest. Now they pretend that in the matter of Paks, the Hungarian people have no business at all. In addition, the Orbán government lost its trust in the Hungarian people in a strange way and quickly. A few months ago, it was all about the referendum, and suddenly, now that there was a clear chance that the referendum could prevent the misdeed of the Orbán government, as well as Vladimir Putin, Viktor Orbán, Brussels and who knows whose dirty little business, the debt of Hungary, the Orbán government suddenly lost confidence in the Hungarian people. The formula is quite clear here: the greater the importance of a case, the less the Hungarian people can have a say in the idea of Fidesz. By the way, this is a very clear message to your master, the atomic lobbie, which you serve very well, and I'm sure they like. But, Honourable Parliament, we have arrived at a watershed. Paks expansion is a question of watershed for all Hungarian political forces, for all Hungarian politicians. He makes it perfectly clear between them. Those who have recognized that we are dealing with a madness here, it is insane to chain Hungary to nuclear power for another decade, and among those who have recognised that they are still living in the past. Nuclear power is basically an XX. It's a hundredth-century device, extremely risky, very expensive, and it's just a very difficult mistake, if anything goes wrong, then we all die there. This is what the Paks referendum is about in political terms. It makes a difference between corrupt and past forces, and makes a distinction between forces who trust clean matters and want clean energy. The Hungarian people must decide between these two political forces. The May Other of Politics therefore calls on the Hungarian parties to make the decision completely clear. What we see is that Jobbik has once again proven that a Virtigli XX. The party of the century, its position is less understandable, and we don't have too many illusions about how many people only feel that the cons are not theirs, but that Fidesz can buy this whole business. But this is a situation where only those who can play clearly can speak clearly. How many people can play clearly in today's Hungarian politics? How many people can look people in the eye and say that our position is absolutely clear: we want to drive Hungary out of XX. We don't want nuclear energy, we want renewables, and we want to renew the whole country. The majority of the Hungarian people voted for renewables in a very clear way. We can clearly see from research that is not funded by the nuclear parties and the atomic lobby, that two thirds of the Hungarian people want renewable energy. So let the Hungarian people finally have a chance to make a decision! Dear Government, You're trying to cheat your interests into an unequal course. The referendum can equalise this career.
u2017-03-06-6	Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2017-03-06-7	Honourable Parliament! Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for speaking on behalf of the Government before the agenda, also because it gives me the opportunity to inform the Hungarian Parliament about the decision of the European Commission. However, before I do this, I would like to reject your claims on behalf of every employee and expert in Paks, which questioned the 40-year-old knowledge developed and accumulated in Hungary by more than 8,000 workers in the nuclear industry. I also reject it on behalf of academics and scientists who in Hungary have fully supported the introduction of nuclear energy in Hungary and then its maintenance. I think you're making a mistake by underestimating Hungarian expertise and Hungarian expertise in a world... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention:]] Mr President, I have listened to the congresswoman, and I would like to have the opportunity to do the same with the Member and the House. So I just wanted to say that I want you to respect the knowledge that has been accumulated in Hungary and that guaranteed that the nuclear power plant will operate safely and cheaply. As a result of these people's work, the nuclear power plant in Hungary produces electricity for 11 HUF/kilowatt hours, and you pay 36 HUF/kilowattor in your apartment. In Germany, in the world that you so desire and offer to the electorate, with which you want to deceive Hungary, you pay 90 forints per kilowatt hour for electricity, in which there is 21 forints of state support per kilowatt hour. I would like you to tell me, Congresswoman, who will have to pay this HUF 21/kilowattor tax in Hungary, because this is also important for information. The government's position is that it respects the LMP initiative, which, of course, must stand the test of legality, but it is my duty to warn the Parliament that it has passed two laws in an open debate, one before the 2014 elections, the other after the 2014 elections, which opened up the possibility of this obligation, this investment to Hungary. You campaigned in the spring of 2014 that the nuclear power plant is bad for Hungary and should therefore be voted for LMP. They barely made it to Parliament. Your program was an anti-nuclear programme, the nuclear power plant, the anti-cost electricity programme, Congresswoman, and they were unable to forge electoral support for it. In 2014, Hungarian voters elected the Fidesz MEPs by knowing precisely that the Fidesz MEPs wanted nothing more than to maintain Hungary's nuclear industrial capacity. 50 percent of the electricity produced comes from Paks and 50 percent comes from green energy and alternative energy sources. Moreover, this was decided in a broad parliamentary debate between 2010 and 2014. More than two thirds of Parliament supported this decision. It is undoubtedly a fact that the grapes are sour to the socialists, who decided in 2008 to sell the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to a French investor, must be privatised by French people, and the capacity reserve of the nuclear power plant must be carried out in the framework of a private investment. I know this is a problem for you, but today, in Hungary, the government has decided to keep the nuclear power plant state-owned. Since November 2013, the Commission has conducted about five procedures to examine whether the nuclear power plant will be safe. I would like to inform you that 100% of the European Union's environmental and safety requirements are met by the nuclear power plant to be implemented. He examined whether Hungary had the right to sign with Russia. In the opinion of the European Commission, what the LMP and MSZP always produce as the best of the worlds is an example, well, according to the European Commission, Hungary had the right to conclude contracts with Russia, and Hungary had the right to carry out procurements with the contract in Hungary and in the European Union. The European Commission has therefore also approved it from a procurement point of view. As of today, 6 March, the investment was certified in accordance with the competition law of the European Union because the European Union and Hungary have conducted constructive, fair, not political, but economic negotiations in the last three years. The resume and summary of this negotiation is that it is worth it to the Hungarian State. As a result of a profit gap of less than 1 per cent for market investors, this investment is not worth it. The European Commission's decision is that Hungary will carry out the investment, provide cheap electricity to the population, and the investment will also generate the cost of the loan. Since Hungary is not a public limited company, the community does not need extra profit, but we all need cheap electricity. I ask the Congresswoman that when she talks to the voters, she also recommends these aspects to their attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2017-03-06-8	Mr.Péter Harrach Group Leader, on behalf of KDNP, will be next with the title "A new help for debtors." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-03-06-9	Mr President, Dear House, On March 1st, the winter eviction moratorium ended, and that forces us to submit a legislative amendment. That reminds me of a very sad story. Someone was in an accident, lying unconscious, and the one who first approached him didn't help him, but robbed him. This is a shocking case, and I thought of it because it shows something similar to what happens in some evictions. What's going on today? Someone's home is announced at 70 percent of the value, and after it has been sold, details of this house must continue to be paid to the debtor. It's an impossible situation that drives families into even more unsettling. Therefore, it is stated in our amendment that this auction should be resolved at 100% of the value. And if it didn't work in more than one step, you can go down to 80 percent. I know of a proposal for an amendment that would increase this 80 to 90 percent, and of course we also support that. It is also a fact that this applies to families where it is listed as a single residential property on the auction, and this is where the family resides. Obviously, where more than one property is involved, this regulation does not apply. And yet another amendment has come to us, which we can also support. This is about an agreement between the creditor and the debtor, which may be lower in terms of agreement, but in that case the debtor is exempted from further repayment. If we look at the rescue packages that have been born over the years, then we must mention the possibility of final repayment, the price barrier, the forinting, the family bankruptcy or the asset manager. These highlighted many people from the situation in which they were primarily transferred by foreign exchange rates. But it is also a fact that today there are 145 thousand families who have not been able to pay the repayments and have not been paid for more than 3 months. I'm sure there'll be counter-opinions. First and foremost, from the banks. I've heard people complain that there's a lot of people who can, but they don't want to pay. I don't know how many there are; I know that there are more who are unable to pay. Here, we must state a principle in which, I believe, we can agree. In the event that, in addition to its own fault, there is such a reason for impossibility, it is necessary to take part not only in dealing with the situation, but also in dealing with the state, not only with the person concerned, but also with the financial institution. So the three actors must somehow resolve this issue. Especially when it comes to crowds. The rescue action, which has already taken place in several steps, is added to what we have to mention again in a case like this, with the possibility of home creation, which has been achieved with the generous CSOK. I think that together, saving families that have already been impossible and creating a home for young people will provide an opportunity that will solve housing in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2017-03-06-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, the Parliament can negotiate today and adopt tomorrow the law on judicial enforcement, which can help the families who are indebted again. The eviction moratorium ended on 1 March, so we need to give them another help. Everyone knows that precisely because of the fact that all those who pay decently and honestly cannot maintain the eviction moratorium for as long as it spoils the mood of those who do it fairly. It should also be said that so far the case law has allowed the 70 percent starting price compared to the value, and even after many auctions, or even after a continuous auction, they could reach the 50 percent selling price, and this is ultimately a very difficult situation for people. That is why the amendment relates to them. The first and then the subsequent auction, which, I must stress, means an electronic auction, can only be launched at 100 percent in the next period as soon as this law is passed. And if this continuous auction fails, one year after that, you can only lower the auction rate to 80 percent. But there is also a third option: the parties can agree. Obviously, this arrangement cannot imply that all those whose heads have gone over their homes, apartments, family homes, and then even debts. Therefore, it must be clearly helped to ensure that this agreement can mean the final repayment to the debtor. However, it is worth talking about the conditions. It may have a residential property, has to live there for six months prior to implementation, and must live there continuously. But, Honourable Parliament, we also need to talk about why we have come here, why there is such a problem, why we still have to help nearly 140,000 families. Between 2002 and 2010, Socialist-Free Democratic Government committed three major crimes against families living in their homes. On the one hand, he drove families into foreign exchange lending, which meant about 2 million loan contracts. On the other hand, he stopped creating a home, he completely destroyed it. Thirdly, the compromise energy policy, which was based on the fact that there would be no gas price increase, but ultimately, energy prices and overhead prices have also escaped to the skies, which have largely destroyed people. I have to say that since 2010, we have two things that need to be resolved immediately. One is saving, helping people, helping families, and the other is not to create these problems, not to recreate them, in a nasty word. I would like to mention the home security action plan. Nearly 1.3 million people were affected. In particular, currency lending, exchange rate barriers, end-payments and the elimination of foreign exchange lending and the introduction of forintisation have been a huge struggle. Who remembers how much the banks protested, but it had to be done for the good of the people. We introduced, implemented, set up the National Asset Manager, which allowed tens of thousands of families to stay in his home, which is no longer his own, but he can still rent it there. Ocsai residence, family bankruptcy [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] It's all he's ever served. This support was HUF 734 billion, no matter how much the socialists are crying now, and they do not want to acknowledge it. The eviction moratorium, the forced sales quota, the electronicisation of auctions, the setting-up of the executive staff and the prevention of debt recovery, the reduction of overhead and the creation of homes. I know it hurts you on the left, and I know you want to do something about it, and you didn't do anything about it. But now, Honourable Parliament, we have this proposal before us, and we have this opportunity. With a vote of four fifths, we can deviate from house rules. If we can do this, they can rise above their petty past and petty political goals, then this bill will be in place tomorrow, and then we can help nearly 140,000 families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-12	The leader of the Jobbik Group, Mr.Gábor Vona, will now be next:. A hundred thousand months next to the register - or is Viktor Orbán's money at the cashier's house, who is called Lőrinc? " The title is given below. [[13.40]]
u2017-03-06-13	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The moment has come to highlight, after so many negatives, a positive part of your governance, and this is that, since you have been in government, organized crime has disappeared in Hungary in recent years. The organized underworld has ceased to function. Well, the positives have lasted so long, because this has happened, and we can't be happy for that. If we ask why the organized underworld and organised crime have ceased in Hungary, then the answer is that because you are the organized underworld and organised crime in Hungary today. They created a political mafia that simply lacks air and space for any other organized underworld operation. What we are glad, of course, is that there is no space and no air, is less so that today the organized underworld in Hungary has risen to such a high political level. But how did we get to talk about such matters? It all starts with the fact that, after the change of regime, the Socialist nomenclature ruled in Hungary with foreign economic and financial help, ignoring the interests of the people, and taking away people's freedom, taking away people's financial security, and taking away their sense of justice. After a while, the otherwise very patient Hungarian people were fed up. The socialists have been expelled, and you have come. But now we know that the country has gone from small to medium. In essence, all that has changed is that foreign governors do not take away people's financial security, freedom or sense of justice, but that you, landlords of Hungary, take away their freedom, security and justice for their own good. They have created a new feudalism, my esteemed fellow Members, with new landlords of land, Döbögiks, little balls, who are laws, state, law, above all else, and if something pleases you, it will simply be taken away. If you don't like it, then you simply remove it from the way, in essence you have created such a landlord system, and the symbol of this landlord system and of this little ball-and-built system is Lőrinc Mészáros, the Hungarian miracle; who, in a sense, has become a legend in his life, because the people already have countless names for Lőrinc Mészáros. Call him Lőrinc cashier, the gas mechanic of the nation, I have also heard the name Chuck Norris in Felcsút, but we have recently learned that he is the Hungarian Zuckerberg, who is simply smarter than the founder, founder and owner of Facebook, because this man has acquired his income over the last ten years. Lőrinc Mészáros increased its revenues from 20 million to 20 billion between 2006 and 2016. Believe me, my honourable young Democrats, that envy is not speaking of us, that we are not envious of Lőrinc Mészáros, it is simply that we have embarrassing, embarrassing, overwhelming questions from where we come from. What is the source of this power? Where does this knowledge come from? Where, at what point in the universe, did this omnipotence come into this man, which is spreading here in Hungary? Or it is simply that this man is nothing more than Viktor Orbán's stroman, as I have already spoken to him here in Parliament a few times, and I have also asked Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me quote a sentence that I think a lot of us have heard in the last few days. And you're smiling, everyone's happy, that's my philosophy. Erzsi Singli Kassizás, who has been known by the country in the past few days, and if we put Erzsi Kassizás and the cash register on the road side and compare their annual income, then it should be assumed that Erzsi Kassizás earns about HUF 151 930 a month. If your boss liked this ad, he may have raised your salary to 200,000 forints. But Erzsi Kassizás would still have to work for 8333 years at a time, or he would have to work for 100,000 months at a time, or he would have to work for 3 million 41 thousand 667 days at a time to earn a year's income for Lőrinc Mészáros. Well, if he hears these numbers, Erzsi Grim Reaper, he'll probably freeze to the face of this otherwise optimistic and smiling lady. But I suggest we stop making jokes, and I'm not gonna keep making jokes about this request, because it's not funny at all. The situation that is now quite clear to this country is that your government is nothing but that you are stealing. Very much so. And even if they build a space station, and even if they try to escape to who knows where, from here to this account, they won't be able to avoid this reckoning. In 2018, Hungarian society will replace you, Hungarian society will judge you, and Jobbik will execute this judgment. In 2018, you will be accounted for very much. You've got a year to get ready. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-14	In response, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-15	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, I thank you for the recognition you have given regarding organised crime, but in fact this work specifically praises the work of Hungarian police officers, so in this respect all recognition belongs to the Hungarian investigating authority, the Hungarian police, because it is important in all respects, and the statistics already support this fact in Hungary that the number of criminal investigations in Hungary is increasing, so thanks to the Hungarian police. However, that is a strange observation, and while I was listening to your speech here, I had a strange feeling when you started talking about landlords in Hungary, you started talking about landlords in Hungary, when you recently had a new owner. This farmer is a Hungarian landlord, a Hungarian landlord, who is also a Hungarian media contractor, and as a media contractor and landlord, he supports you, and it is you who cooperate with him in every respect. In Hungary, however, Hungarian businesses have a future. Hungarian businesses must also be supported in Hungary, small and medium-sized enterprises, and if you remember and look at Hungarian tax policy, you should see that this tax policy is nothing more than support for families and support for small and medium-sized enterprises through the support of families. Don't forget that whatever you say, this country is primarily a country of small and medium-sized enterprises, they give the most jobs in Hungary. It is no coincidence that our tax system, our tax relief system, is one that specifically supports these businesses. Of course, the words you are saying are strange, even because your voice, your tone, has changed considerably recently. It is obviously due to the fact that in the former way you, as your party president says, have sold the soul of this party. [[Dr. István Apáti: Like Lőrinc Mészáros!]] This party is no longer the party that used to be, and this is the very thing that we just mentioned, that in your case, you are asking for the support of someone who is, on the one hand, a media owner, a big media owner. [[Dóra Dúró: That's not true!]] On the other hand, the landowner, on the other hand, raises the question that when you speak here in Parliament, who is to speak for. For whose sake are they speaking? ! [[Dóra Dúró: Grim Reaper in Erzsébet! Tamás Sneider: For the sake of Hungarians after 40 years of employment!]] Ma'am and gentlemen. You betrayed your own voters, now you're not politicalizing for your own voters. It also proves that in your case, when it comes to paying party money, it always comes to supporting relatives, acquaintances and friends by ordering various studies and supporting these people in applying them. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Someone taught them!]] Friends, acquaintances, relatives. That's how Jobbik works! You can do anything for money, you do everything for money, nothing is more important to you than power and money. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: You are yourself's cartoon.]] And your system of interests, your attitude, can be traced back to this. I would like to draw your attention to this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-16	Fortunately, we are approaching the end of the speeches before the agenda. Lajos Kósa, leader of the group, on the part of Fidesz, is the last to say the word: in the name of Szeged, hundreds of small entrepreneurs have been destroyed. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-17	Mr. President. Dear House, The Seviép case, which is taking place in Szeged, has been very serious for years. [[Dr. László Varga: Have the measurements come back from Botka? Dr. István Józsa: The problem is great!]] The Seviép destroyed 379 small entrepreneurs and left behind some 11 billion forints of debt. In 2013, the NAV also launched an investigation into a bankruptcy crime, and criminal proceedings are still taking place against the CEOs, who otherwise have more ties to the socialists, especially István Ujhelyi. At the time they received the big money, his independent notary was László Pistrui, who also had a close relationship with Mayor Botka, and István Ujhelyi had a business partner. [[13.50]] At this time one of Szeged's most successful construction companies became Szeviép and worked on the implementation of numerous municipal and European projects. At the same time, a series of shocking statements have been made in the current negotiations. The subcontractors, more than 300 small entrepreneurs and suppliers are represented by Bálin Szabó, who simply claimed in the current negotiations that the missing billions were in the register of the MSZP. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And he's confirmed that by fact. Seviép Zrt. As a representative of its subcontractors, he said that the construction company did not pay billions to subcontractors, while, in connection with several large investments, it helped companies with loans that could be linked, inter alia, to a socialist politician, István Ujhelyi, for example, the managing director of one of them was the socialist politician himself. Literally, I quote what Bálint Szabó said at the hearing: "I think it is clear what is going on in Szeged. The EU investments in Szeged are without exception made by Szeviép Zrt. He took it. The company had the subcontractors do the work, but did not pay the subcontractors, instead pushed the money out to István Ujhelyi's driver and his company. [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]] From 2008 until the 2010 parliamentary elections, a total of approximately half a billion forints were rolled out from this group of companies on a weekly, monthly basis, in the order of millions and ten million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He literally put Bálin Szabó on trial. Literally! According to the lawyer, I also quote about the trial:. It is quite clear that Szeged has failed and banned party funding. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: This is so pathetic out of your mouth!]] Literally quote about the hearing again: . It can be said with great certainty that from the Sevíép Group the funds migrated to various left-wing parties, primarily to the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Hungarian Democratic Forum. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The lawyer also stated that the two indictments in the indictment, namely that from mid-2008 until the 2010 elections, items of HUF 1-20 million were placed on a weekly basis on a monthly basis. [[Dr. István Józsa: Bálint Szabó?]] István Ujhelyi was an MSZP and a Member of the European Parliament for his company Tamás Báló. By the way, today Tamás Báló is the head of the aviation business of the Szeged Transport Company. Dear Parliament, While the socialists prefer all kinds of corruption slogans and adjectives, they do not respond to basic statements. They didn't make it clear that [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Doctor!]] the funds taken from Seviép were indeed taken to the socialists or not. The lawyer's got facts to back that up. Listening to metro 4's investment from hundreds of billions of missing persons of this magnitude [[Dr. László Kács: You haven't told me one fact yet! Zoltán Grimlock: Louis, why didn't you press charges?]] and until the socialists give a detailed exploratory statement on these matters [[Zoltán Grimlock: We need a face for this! Dr. László Varga: You must be really scared.]] All their statements about corruption are untrue and bluffed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-18	Again, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence.
u2017-03-06-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. This case also highlights how Hungary worked before 2010, how economic life worked in Hungary, and how they approached and removed money from certain companies. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: You lie in a mean, mean way! Can you read it without laughing?!]] It sheds light on how this country worked, because there are other cases. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You will learn that from my interpellation!]] We've seen it recently, and now there are files in public that are specifically about subway money. In those files, in the subway files, we can see that money that should have been spent for public purposes has moved somewhere else. [[Dr. László Varga: Stealing the country! This is unbelievable!]] which were either in the vicinity of the Metropolitan Municipality or in the area of the Socialists, in the area of the MSZP, in the area of the then government. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Are you talking about you? Zoltán Grimlock: How much does your office get?]] We need to act very hard on these cases. We have to perform. These are matters in which caution should be exercised as far as possible [[Interview from the lines of MSZP: Ripper's Railway Construction Company? Dr. Laszlo Varga: Thief! You're a thief, too!]] and the authorities have to do their job. [[Dr. László Varga: Do it for a long time, it can end differently.]] If there is a criminal offence in these cases, it is the duty of both the police and the prosecution and the court to bring justice to justice. [[Dr. László Varga: You lied to people for a long time!]] Justice, I tell you, justice must be done, and not just justice must be served, because people have the right to know what the truth is in these matters. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Andy Vajna!]] Typically, they're the ones who shout the most about corruption, as you do. [[Dr. László Varga: Don't point fingers. You're a thief!]] who, by the way, are the purest in these cases. Behold, they are falling out now, yet the skeletons are falling out of the closet. [[Noise from the ranks of the MSZP.]] , it is quite clear that in matters such as the subway...
u2017-03-06-20	I would ask my fellow socialists to calm down and not yell at me. [[Interventions and murmurs from the ranks of the MSZP: Parliamentary genre!]]
u2017-03-06-21	Or a case like this case, in this case as well... [[Moraj and interventions from the ranks of the MSZP: It violates the dignity of the House, parliamentary genre!]]
u2017-03-06-22	You are violating the dignity of this House by constantly yelling at me and preventing Mr Secretary of State from giving his five-minute comment. Please calm down and be quiet. Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Clap your hands!]]
u2017-03-06-23	Thank you very much. With your governance, they were able to come up with cases where the shadow of corruption didn't just fall on them. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Corruption! Amazing! István Tiborcz!]] but these are the cases that are corruption itself. Such abuse has never occurred before. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-03-06-24	[[Towards the lines of the MSZP:]] Congressman, control yourself, Congressman. Control yourself.
u2017-03-06-25	Remember the Tochik case. We're talking 700 million forints! Where is this from the case that arises in these cases, or, for example, in the metro case, where the country has only a debt of HUF 59 billion? ! Where is he? It's a huge amount of money. Hospitals could be built with these amounts. So what happens now? Because of your mistake, because of your governance, these amounts simply have to be repaid to the European Union [[Dr. László Varga: You're a liar!]] Not to mention the hundred billion that someone in your environment has taken. If we're talking about money and the money's gone, it's not gone somewhere in the air. Those money's moved somewhere, someone's got to have it. But you have to find the path of these money, and you have to look for it, because it's not enough if you just know that it's happened. [[Dr. László Kács: Don't open your mouth once in a while.]] We also need to know that in these cases, as in this particular case, who was responsible, where the money went, and that these money must be recovered. [[Dr. László Kács: When Tarsoly makes a statement in court, listen to this.]] We need to get it back to the country because it's not possible that someone has ever done any damage, and no one will ever pay for it. The guilty must be held accountable, and the missing money must be repaid. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. László Kács: You'll be in deep shit!]] This is what characterized governance before 2010 when such matters could happen. Let us hope that this will never happen again in Hungary [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: Then resign! Cancel and there will be no corruption in this country.]] We also hope that the investigating authorities, the police, the prosecution and the court will do their best in this regard. [[Dr. László Varga: Shame on you!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-26	Dear Parliament, Thank God we've reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2017-03-06-27	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda in Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Márta Demeter is independent; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: István Ikotity, LMP; István Hiller MSZP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; Attila Móring József, KDNP; Sándor Lezsák, Fidesz. On Tuesday, István Szávay, Jobbik, Tamás Pintér, Jobbik, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda. On Wednesday, Károly Panczél, Fidesz applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2017-03-06-28	Dear Parliament, Dezső, Member of Parliament of the MSZP, in whose criminal case the Parliament suspended its immunity, is the House Rule 18. § 8 states that he wishes to inform the Parliament of the final termination of the procedure within a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2017-03-06-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 30 January of this year, the referee upheld the judgment of the Metropolitan Court. According to this, there is no evidence in my case that I committed a crime or that I committed a crime. [[14.00]] This case began on 8 July 2014, when the Attorney General wrote a letter to Dr. László Kövér, President of the Parliament. In it he wrote that he asked for my immunity suspended, because he claimed that I asked for 5 million HUF for the rental of a business space. He also claimed that he could prove that with evidence and recordings. The courts and a total of four judges listened to all the recordings and found that I had not asked for bribery money. On the other hand, on the tapes, I clearly refused the bribery offer of an undercover detective trained for this task. Following the letter of the Supreme Prosecutor's untrue content, a parliamentary representative's margin was limited for more than two and a half years. With his findings in his letter, the Attorney General knowingly deceived the President of this House and deceived the Members who voted for him, you. This is unprecedented in the history of this House and cannot go without consequences. Péter Polt became professionally unfit, humanly unworthy of his high office. If he's got just a hint of dignity or decency or a little masculinity in him, then he'll take responsibility for his actions and resign.
u2017-03-06-30	Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 11 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the President of the Republic shall appoint the election of the President of the Parliament. As announced at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the election will be scheduled for 13 March 2017. The election of the President of the Republic shall be preceded by a nomination within the meaning of Article 11 (2) of the Fundamental Law. The validity of the nomination shall require a written recommendation from at least one fifth of the Members of Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that every MP can recommend a candidate. For those who propose more candidates, each recommendation is invalid. I'll initiate the nomination procedure. Recommendations can be submitted by 12 a.m. on Friday 10 March. I shall convene a meeting of the House Committee on the review of the recommendations at 14.00 on 10 March. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide on a proposal for a derogation from house rules. The House Committee, in derogation from the house rules, initiates the Parliament to act as LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. T/14298 amending Act No. In the course of the negotiation of the No.3 proposal, move away from the house rules in such a way that the final vote can take place on tomorrow's sitting. T/14298/4 proposed a derogation from the house rules. You can get to know him on the website. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I'm going to ask the National Assembly if they'll agree to a departure from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote. Katalin Cöbör indicates that his machine is not working.]] Please turn on Katalin Cöbör's computer, if possible. I find that without this vote, the House has voted in favour of a derogation from the house rules by 148 votes to three, without abstentions. Thus, the proposals for amendments can be tabled today at 15:00 to 5 minutes, the consolidated debate of the bill will take place on today's sitting, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement T/14298 amending Act No. For the consolidated debate of bill No.3 on Monday's meeting, the Group on the Fit Homes Fund T/13560. A number of legislative proposals should be submitted following the negotiation of a series of requests for inclusion. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group proposed that the Parliament's meeting on 13 March begin at 8 a.m., following the speeches before the agenda, a recess should take place, the President of the Republic being elected from 9.30 a.m., as indicated in the agenda proposal. A break of 15 minutes shall take place following the publication of the results of the election of the President of the Republic, followed by questions and immediate questions. I ask this House whether it agrees with this proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The election of committee members will follow. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Széchenyi Dezső to present the S/14330 presented by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2017-03-06-31	13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Point 1 of Parliamentary Decision No 1 is amended as follows. The National Assembly elects Dr. Zsolt Legény, Márta Demeter, independent, instead of Mónika Dunai, L. Simon László, Fidesz, member of the Committee instead of MSZP. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2017-03-06-32	It is now time for a decision to be made again. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the S/14330 described above. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the personal proposal with 155 unanimous votes in favour. Now, at 2:08 p.m., we move on to interpellation and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Competitiveness is lousy and prospects are disappointing. It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2017-03-06-33	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the Prime Minister spoke of the fact that he was very upset that economic success should always be explained. I hope you don't mind explaining the failures, because there's something to explain. The European Commission has published the so-called country report, which shows how attractive a region is for companies working there, how attractive and sustainable it is for people and workers. It also measures the quality of the economy, the standard of living, education and health. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Our country's situation is disappointing. Compared to 2013, the situation in all our regions has deteriorated. In fact, there is only one economic region in the eastern Member States in which there are signs of decline, and this is the region in northern Hungary. In this region, the quality of health care was enough for the last place in 263. It's quite simply a shame! [[14.10]] The regions of Western Europe have come to an unattainable distance from us, and this is painful, but it is still sort of explainable. However, it is expected that the surrounding countries will not leave us standing. This is exactly what happened: we find a growing region in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania, Poland and three. It performs above the EU average not only in Prague, but also in rural Central Czech Republic and in nearby Bratislava. Dear Secretary of State, You spoke about the economic turnaround that has been taking place since 2010 at the Chamber of Industry. Something that, unfortunately, doesn't exist. Only in the case of Northern Hungary there is a turnaround, because the situation here is worse than ever. If you think it's encouraging, what would you consider catastrophic? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-03-06-34	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Rákossy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow the less informed Members in their ranks to be informed that the so-called country report of 2017 referred to by the Member has indeed been published, but not a single word on regional competitiveness. What you may have thought of, but understandably do not remember in detail, was the EU's regional competitiveness analysis, which was largely based on data from several years ago, so that the data is outdated and even often reflects the state of your governance. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] According to the analysis, for example, one of the limits to the competitiveness of the Hungarian regions is the state of health of the population, but this is determined by the analysis on the basis of data from 2011 and 12 years ago, i.e. five to six years ago, which essentially reflect the results of the previous socialist-liberal failed economic policy. [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The macroeconomic data used by the survey are also outdated, taking into account data for 2012-2013, i.e. they do not reflect a spectacular improvement in the financial balance and employment indicators in recent years. [[Constant noise, interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] The only lesson to be learned from the survey is that, despite the billions available in the 2007-2013 European Union development period, which you have compiled and planned, they have not been able to make a substantial contribution to the territorial catch-up of the Hungarian regions and to their competitiveness. As a result, the current government has already paid particular attention to these aspects in the planning of the 2014-2020 programmes, the 60 percent of the funds are devoted to economic development, and we give priority and targeted support to counties, county-righted cities and backward regions. Turning to the European Commission's 2017 country report, which I particularly thank you for mentioning in the Interpellation, the country report commends the results of the Hungarian economy, successful Hungarian stabilisation, increasing employment, rising wages and, not least, the competitiveness-enhancing effects of the 2016 Autumn Tax Reduction Package. The civil government, which was founded in 2010, has inherited a heavy burden from you: we inherited a budget deficit of more than 3 percent, a skyrocketing sovereign debt, households indebted to the extremes of foreign currency, and a completely demoralized economy of growth, a bankruptcy at the time. Let us remember the autumn of 2008, when the collapse of the state and the collapse of the economy were the only way to avoid the socialist-liberal government with the help of the IMF's ventilator. We must also judge Hungary's performance over the past few years in the light of these precedents. Thanks to the government's action, the government is holding the government's deficit below 3 per cent, putting the government's debt-to-GDP ratio on a declining path, freeing households from foreign exchange loans, and setting the Hungarian economy on a stable, sustainable growth path. Meanwhile, employment has risen to an unprecedented level since the change of regime. Compared to 2010, nearly 700 thousand more of our countrymen have their jobs and livelihoods and, most importantly, wages for decent work are above the pre-crisis level. Looking ahead, the government is also committed to continuing to improve competitiveness and thus the well-being of our fellow countrymen. In November 2016, the 6-year wage agreement concluded at the government's initiative will contribute to a dynamic increase in wages, a further increase in employment, thereby increasing household incomes and consumption, honourable Member. Consumption increased by 5 percent last year, and this year we expect a substantial increase of more than 7 percent. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Reducing the tax and tax burden on businesses supports the competitiveness of domestic companies and encourages investment in substance. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] And if we look at the latest national and international comparisons, in terms of business confidence that reflects a great deal of competitiveness (The President re-rings). We have not only exceeded the EU average for the fourth year, but the situation in Hungary is also better than in the other Visegrád countries. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-03-06-37	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I fear that after reading this report, Mr Secretary, the failure has gone to his head, because what he has said here could not have been said soberly. He's obviously under some kind of mind-altering influence. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] With all due respect, Mr Secretary of State, if this mind-altering is an authorised product and it is not harmful to health [[Constant interrogations from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] , you can share with Hungary this recipe or the available product. Millions of people living in this country, who do not see the situation so pink, see the situation exactly as the EU has stated; these figures have clearly deteriorated since 2013, indicating the failure of your governance. This answer cannot be accepted quite simply. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-38	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 110 yes, 35 not votes. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Lőrinc Mészáros Orbán's underworld connection? Or is Viktor Orbán's money with the cashier named Lawrence? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds on behalf of Secretary of State Bence Tuzson. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Over the past months, more and more information has come to light about the novelistic life and death of Ghaith Pharaon, but the more we learned, the more question marks in this story spanning continents and people close to government. We already know that Saudi billionaire Ghaith Pharaon was wanted by the FBI and Interpol for money laundering, terrorist manipulation, and illegal migration. However, the circumstances of Ghaith Pharaon's entry into Hungary are still obscured, despite the fact that the purpose of his infamous criminal visit was a personal meeting with the Prime Minister. Similarly, Ghaith Pharaon's business activity in Hungary is mysterious, which can only be attributed to the fact that he established a joint company specialising in food exports with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, and then bought the former Postabank headquarters from Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, and later bought monuments throughout the country, taking advantage of the massive tax incentives that just recently entered into force thanks to the Minister of National Economy, Mihály Varga. Pharaon then purchased a property in the immediate vicinity of Viktor Orbán's house on Cinege Street in Buda. The unsettling conclusion of the mysterious relationship between Ghaith Pharaon and Viktor Orbán, linked to international terrorism, is not a very reassuring conclusion to Pharaon's alleged sudden death in Beirut, a few weeks after the scandal started. Another question is that if not personally Viktor Orbán or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, with experience in this area, is looking for contact with underworlders, the missing link between the Prime Minister and Ghaith Pharaon may be. According to some information, last summer, the luxury yachts of Lőrinc Mészáros, the nation's gas mechanic and Ghaith Pharaon were parked next to each other, and the two businessmen had several discussions. [[14.20]] Although we appreciate Prime Minister's personal example, for the gasman working in his environment can be counted not only as a tip, but also as a yacht, the role and sudden wealth of Lőrinc Mészáros is a cause for many guesses. Dear Secretary of State, Would Lőrinc Mészáros be the liaison between Viktor Orbán and Ghaith Pharaon, who supports international terrorism? Is he the stooge who provides Hungary's prime minister with his underworld ties in exchange for a bountyful profit? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-40	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-41	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. As far as the gentleman in question is concerned, it is clear that this late gentleman - he has passed away - his activities in Hungary [[Gergely Kulcsár and Zsolt Egyed right-hand representatives bring in a man-sized figure made of paper masse and placed in front of the Prime Minister's place. The figure is modelled by the Ripper of the Ripper, in his hand, with the subtitle "Stroman." Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] it fully complied with the Hungarian law, and it did not hide any national security risk in Hungary. However, I would like to raise the question first of all from your point of view: if you are concerned about the security of this country...
u2017-03-06-42	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I'm going to have to suspend the session for a moment. [[Dr. László Varga: That's enough!]] in the sense that, asking for your understanding, I ask you to remove this from the room... [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: Gunshots!]] - I don't want to qualify. Please remove it. [[The Officer at the Office will take the paperwork out of the room. Noise in opposition benches. Intercom from Jobbik's ranks: They took out the ranger!]] I'll ask the Jobbik fraction to stop making noise now. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They took Gunnery out, there's gonna be trouble! Dr. István Apáti: We're in trouble!]] Secretary of State, you have the floor. I'll count the time frame. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, after this small intermezzo, let me go on because if we are talking about national security risks and the analysis of national security risks, then it is better, my dearest fellow Members, if you will join yourselves in this regard and think about your activities. [[István Szávay: Not our activities...]] Is it not a risk to national security, because it is you, my fellow Member, who is well-known for Jobbik's internal affairs, who say that his Arab relations are thanks to Jobbik, the Arab line, because he had a Russian relationship with Jobbik before. What's this if it's not a national security risk? [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Ask the AH if he passed.]] or something that does not necessarily represent Hungarian interests in the future. I mean, let's not forget that in 2014 you were the one who went to the Separatists in Donetsk and took part in the election. [[István Szávay: What does this have to do with Butcher?]] And the consequence of that is that you have been banned from Ukraine. What's this if it's not a national security risk? You've got to watch out for that from Jobbik's ranks. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Was this part of the facts?]] And it was you, my fellow Member, who was negotiating with an editor of a dubious Internet portal, and a person who could be linked to neo-Nazi, hungarian organizations. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Yikes! Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Shame!]] That's confirmed by footage, by the way. What if it's not a national security risk? [[Adam Mirkóczki: Relieve the...]] We are talking about a party whose organization, behind its organization, still has a person accused of espionage. What is this, ladies and gentlemen, if not a national security risk? So this is a confused party, and I am sorry to say this, my fellow Member, but you are also a disorienting representative of this party in this regard. [[György Szilágyi: You say confusing things! That's right! The president's ringing the bell.]] After all, let us recall that you were the one who initiated the list of persons of Jewish origin in the Parliament and the Government. What is this, ladies and gentlemen, if not a national security risk? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-44	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-45	Mr President, Unfortunately, there is no answer that can be accepted, because the Secretary of State has spoken about everything, he has always been delirious, he has not answered the questions at all. Perhaps the Secretary of State could also go a little deeper in the process of screening the various committees of Parliament, including national security, because as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have undergone a detailed screening and have not shown any risk of national security. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among other things: Oops!]] If you have any complaints, you should go to the Constitutional Protection Office and ask them if they pose any national security risks. On the other hand, the fact that Hungary's Prime Minister meets Ghaith Pharaon in secret, travels to Hungary and deals with members of the government, their own family, poses a national security risk to Hungary. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] The fact that Lőrinc Mészáros has increased his wealth by 2,500 times, is that this man has still to this day [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He'd be a plumber in the field. [[The president's ringing again.]] If it wasn't from the Prime Minister's village, it's more than a tell. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]]
u2017-03-06-46	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-03-06-47	I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-48	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[György Szilágyi: Protect Gunnery! Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, as regards the earlier interpellation, I find that Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has broken the Act on Parliament 38/A. § 4 of the Act, based on the rules applicable to the illustration [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Him? They were his stooges! It wasn't him! What movie were you watching?]] Despite a negative decision... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Márton Gyöngyösi's intervention.]] Congressman, you and your fellow Members, fellow factions [[Adam Mirkóczki: Which game did you watch?]] Gergely Kulcsár and his fellow Members brought him in. With respect, I will inform the Speaker of this in order to take the necessary measures. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Erzsébet Schmuck... [[Dr. István Apáti: Gy. Martin and more associates! Noise.]] Fellow Members! Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:, do you think it is possible to live without a green surface? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh responds to the interpellation on behalf of Minister. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-06-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For you, environmental and nature protection is only an obstacle, which is why the institutional system of environmental and nature protection has been consciously dismantled in recent years. We have come to the conclusion that no legal or institutional barriers to investment in government interests in Hungary are helping to protect urban green areas today. Although many decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Ombudsman state that the fundamental rights of people living in built-up areas to a healthy environment could be guaranteed primarily by urban green areas, you have destroyed over 500 healthy trees from the territory of Budapest over the past four years and have done a similar slime in the countryside, from Balatonföldvár to Szigetvár. And the authority system that would protect the interests of citizens has never spoken against destruction. Neither the environmental inspectorates integrated in government offices nor the national park directorates have ever said that trees should be looked after for people. There is no reasonable explanation for the unprecedented logging throughout Europe, but there is a reason: the current power clearly regards green surfaces for people's rest as a building site. In the case of priority investments, government agencies do not object even if mass logging is clearly a violation. In fact, they assist in the equally questionable practice of tree cuttings before [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: The green surface is expanding!]] Before the public or civil society organisations have the opportunity to object to decisions that have been taken in secret, they have not been agreed with anyone. The specific examples are long and do not know where it ends. [[14.30]] In recent years, more than 200 trees have been cut from Kossuth Square for no reason. All the trees of József Rádor Square were destroyed for a private parking garage. So far, 100 healthy trees have been removed from the high tide beach. [[The representatives of the LMP stand up with a poster of 50x60 cm with two pictures and text. Dr. Wind in Bernadett's hand: before the VESSEL'S ISLAND, after it. In the hands of R. Benedek Sallai: before and after the ORCZY-KERT. In the hands of István Ikotity: before and after STRAND.]] In Orczy Park, 140 trees have fallen victim to their previous activities. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Objection!]] They did not perform in the garden of the Gellért Hill villa built by Lőrinc Mészáros, either because of trees cut out in protected areas. In the area of the Roman Coast 1500, in the City Park 600-800, in Orczy Park 130 more, on Etele Road 175, at Gül doll's turbee 50, in Nagymező Street 34 trees will be killed in the near future. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Mr President, do something, I can't help myself.]] And it cannot be emphasized enough: fundamental rights are violated, unconstitutionally; the aim is to increase profits or simply accelerate construction. Mr. Secretary. My question is that the disaster we've had so far [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] are ready to review the priority investment law for health and the environment, based on experience.
u2017-03-06-50	Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State to reply, I must inform the Honourable Parliament that Bernadett Szél, head of the LMP Group, at the House Committee meeting on 2 March, initiated the initiative of the Parliament Act No 38/A. As set out in Section 4 of the Parliament, during the interpellation, the members of the political group may give an illustration. The request was discussed by the House Committee, but there was no consensus on the matter. In the absence of a consensus, the Speaker decided not to allow the illustration, which he also informed all the factions in writing at the House Committee meeting, Mrs Bernadett Szél. [[Sallai R. Benedek: That's not what we meant!]] Dear Parliament, I find that the LMP Group has violated the relevant paragraph of the Parliament Act, and has illustrated without permission, so I will inform the Speaker of what has happened in order to take the necessary measures. [[Nándor Gúr: We don't expect any more!]] Please refrain from such revelations. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. You have the floor, please. [[It's a lot of noise.]]
u2017-03-06-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the cases referred to by you as an example, as well [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] As part of our everyday life, environmental and nature conservation aspects are always guaranteed. The installation, maintenance, protection and, if necessary, removal of green surfaces are operated in a complex regulatory system depending on the location and legal status of the trees. Other authorities act in the forest area, in areas protected by nature conservation or cultural heritage protection, such as water management areas or in the indoor green areas raised in the interpellation. The rules on investments that are of national importance do not contain any specific requirements regarding the procedures for wooded plants. In these cases, all the substantive requirements laid down under the sectoral legislation or the local government decree must also be complied with, and may be different from the time limit for the replacement of wood or its place. But let us take a look at the two biggest publicity projects of the specific cases mentioned by the Congresswoman. In recent decades, the quality of the green surface of Városliget has steadily deteriorated, the stock of trees and plants has grown considerably, and the renewal of green areas is therefore an urgent task. At present, almost 60 percent of the Liget is green, while its built-in, i.e. the share of the area occupied by the current buildings is 5.7 percent, and the remaining one third is largely covered by hundreds of thousands of square meters. With the elimination of unnecessary concrete roads, sidewalks, bus stops and car parks, more than a thousand, I repeat: more than a thousand newly installed trees, two kilometers of running circles, larger playgrounds, extended boating ponds and, among other things, a rose garden will enrich the City Park. With the greening of the enveloped surfaces, the green area ratio of at least 65 per cent can be achieved by 2021, I repeat: 65 per cent green area ratio. [[Noise. Dr. Péter Hoppál: Green surface increases by 5 percent!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to the government's decision, Városliget Zrt issued a special design competition for garden and landscape design. with the help of the Architect Chamber and the Association of Hungarian Landscape Designers [[The president's ringing the bell.]] so that the investment can meet quality and functional requirements, in addition to quantitative aspects, when replacing the cut-off trees. I also note that the development of the opposition's ranks on numerous occasions has received not so long ago a prestigious international recognition. Kossuth Square is also mentioned by the congresswoman. I wonder if you would be in a position to restore the original state. Ask the tourists who come to Kossuth Square and love it. I am convinced that the current image of this space is worthy of Parliament's building and has very modern solutions in terms of its green spaces. One of the most important changes in the area is that cars previously occupying 45 percent of the area have finally been completely excluded, and the green surface has grown substantially. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right!]] I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, in the course of the government's operation, procedures have become simpler, faster and more efficient, and that the administrative burden on customers and determining authorities has been significantly reduced. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's reply. You have the floor. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2017-03-06-53	No, Mr. President, I don't accept this, it's unacceptable. Mr. Secretary. 50- and 100-year-old trees [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It can only be restored in 50 and 100 years. It's just a joke that you guys say you're planting babies instead. They won't be 50 years from now and in 100 years they'll be the ones you cut out! You need to know that, and I think you know very well that the green surface of Budapest is very, very weak, very poorly equipped with green surface in Budapest. If we look around the capitals of Europe, we know that we are at the very end. Bucharest is way ahead of us, they have beautiful parks, and all you do is kill the trees, cut down the trees, it's a shame. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Shame!]] You're pretending you haven't heard of climate change. [[The president's ringing again.]] And climate change is here, we've had it in the summer. It's only the green surface and the trees that help.
u2017-03-06-54	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote. The representatives of the LMP are pulling out of the room.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, József Kovács, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title of the year of the health wage increase. I give the floor to Congressman József Kovács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Contrary to the rule of the socialists, teachers and health workers today can experience predictability rather than uncertainty, and respect instead of humiliation. Unfortunately, however, this has not always been the case. During left-wing governance, a series of withdrawals not only put hospitals in jeopardy, but also made the situation of health care workers hopeless. Many of the health workers were on the streets because of institutional closures and mergers, especially after 2006, who remained in work, and who took a month's wages as a reward, and could not dream of raising wages. [[14.40]] Unfortunately, even today, we see that the left has not voted for any measures to support health workers, but they are being used, while they have always been released during their governance. Contrary to the above, Fidesz-KDNP has been acting, and since 2010 it has been replacing money back into health care. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: No, I didn't! Calling in from the benches of Fidesz: Yes!]] Instead of being insecure, health workers are given predictability, instead of humiliation, appreciation. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true either!]] The wage increase started as early as 2012-13, when the surplus income from the so-called chips tax into the health register was spent entirely on raising the salaries of nurses and doctors, and then in the summer of 2014. On 8 June 2016, an agreement was reached as a result of the negotiation between representative trade unions and strategic partners in the sector and the government, which decided to increase wages in the health sector for several years. As a result of the four-year wage increase launched last year, the rate of wages of nurses increased by 26 percent last September, the basic wages of specialists and pharmacists increased by 107 thousand HUF, and the basic wages of the workers increased by 26,5 percent overall. In addition, with the basic wage, the mobile wage elements have also increased. Dear Secretary of State, I ask you what health care workers can expect in 2017, whether wage increases will continue, and whether the appreciation of workers will continue to increase. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-06-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This year's 2017 budget includes more than 170 billion HUF for general health purposes, more than last year's budget. This means that health resources will increase by half a percent of GDP this year compared to last year. This is done by the fact that the Hungarian economy is now able to generate so much surplus that it is possible to spend much more on health care than in previous years. However, I would add that every previous year, there was a higher rate of money than inflation, with which the health insurance fund's overall amount increased, or the expenditure on health has increased. To do this, the HUF 40 billion that is included in the budget for the temporary development of Budapest's superhospitals and their co-hospitals should be added to the HUF 170 billion. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the money that, according to the OLAF report, the then socialist-free Democrat city leadership has cheated or stolen from the EU money would have been enough to build a whole super hospital. But this money's gone. The government sought to provide additional resources for both wage increases and other hospital developments. We can also remember the period before 2010 when patients were tried to keep patients away from recovery with a visit fee and increase revenues. Fortunately, this failed, as Fidesz-KDNP's signature collection and referendum swept away the initiative at that time and the initiative. On the other hand, after 2010, for example, the chip tax generated revenue, which was also referred to by the Member, which could ensure a lasting coverage of the health wage increase, and, on the other hand, prevented people from eating and buying more food that is harmful to their health from a public health point of view. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Previously, there were layoffs, layoffs, pay cuts; of course, there was money for safes. As you said, in 2012-13, we made the first 27 percent increase in health care. Last September, the two- and four-year-old wage increase process of doctors and nurses started with HUF 107 plus HUF 100 thousand for doctors. So last September, the salary of doctors and hospital pharmacists increased by HUF 107,000, and on 1 November this year, the salary of doctors and hospital pharmacists will increase by HUF 100,000. And for the nurses, as you mentioned, it started at 26,5 percent. This year, we have funding for an additional 12 percent increase, as I said, half of GDP has increased from health sources, and in the years to come, the wages will rise by an additional 8-8 percent. Thus, teachers and those working in education can also move forward with a multi-annual wage development programme. This results in a number of areas, such as the different numbers of medical emigration or nursing emigration. Obviously, in the case of doctors, this positive process began earlier. There was the turning point around 2012, the year when one of the highest number of requests for permissions in Hungary's history was the number of doctors wishing to work abroad. But fortunately, this rate has fallen greatly year after year, say, if I look at 2013-14, there too, from 530 to 518 and then to 492, and last year, from 492 to 398 doctors who first requested an official certificate from the ÁEK to work abroad. The positive process has also started, and the increase in nursing wages has also played an important role in this, in the case of the movement of nurses and workers abroad. There, too, the number of licence applicants from 567 in 2015, which is approximately the same as the number of previous years, has fallen noticeably to 486. We hope that as many people remain on the health field as possible as a result of wage increases. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-06-58	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The things you have said, I think, are very comforting despite the opposition yelling. What rises nominally cannot be said to be decreasing. Wage increases are clearly a wage increase, and the workers are satisfied with that. The data that the Secretary of State has said is very comforting that the process of working abroad and emigration, if not stopped, has decreased significantly, if you will. I think this is very important because, following major infrastructure improvements, it is also very important to keep workers in health care. I think we have a lot to do here. We know there's not a full-scale wage development in health care. We must strive to carry on this process. For me, the answer is very comforting and I respectfully accept it. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-06-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Swimming state funds in South Békés? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2017-03-06-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Another chapter was added to the liquidation of the Hungarian Termés TÉSZ founded by our colleague György Simonka and operated by his wife. This is the procedure in which, according to press reports, our ingenious fellow Member rescued his family house from the demand, to which our greatest surprise was assisted by the President of the Committee on the Exemptions of KDNP. The President refused to even bring the obvious fraud to the committee so that the rescue of the property could be discussed at least at committee level. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Unheard of!]] He prevented committee members from at least questioning the Member concerned as to whether this type of debauchery is worthy of his oath. It follows that the obvious theft in Fidesz is not a sin in contrast to the Christian teachings, but a part of the construction of the new class of lords. Fortunately, the public soon found out that the family house in question had become the niece, a relative who had become richer not only with a vast asset, but also, according to the news, had a very good result in the field competition in Mezőhegyes, since as a successful tenant, he received a pain fee of more than HUF 20 million for the benefit of the state. By the way, according to the newspapers, he was interested in many other companies, one of which won and received support for the car service, from which he only managed to build the washer. In the public invitation to tender announced in the Public Notice of 9 February, several state-owned players are among the creditors. Of these, there's only a chance of compensation for the mortgagers, right, that's just a fraction of the debt. The biggest problem is that, for some reason, the legitimate claimants do not include the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, who, because of something incomprehensible, does not even seek the aid that he has allocated, but which he has not used or at least used for other purposes. Mr. Secretary, what I've described so far is a sample of the state-organized theft that Fidesz has been running for years. You could say that had nothing to do with it. But you have to answer the following questions. Why didn't the MVH claim a legitimate claim? Is it because you didn't want to mess with the powerful Fidesz congressman, the Voldemort of Peace and County? [[14.50]] Before the office was destroyed, it was supervised by the Ministry of Rural Development, I'm sorry, Ministry of Agriculture. Has the Ministry initiated liability in this case? Did you file a criminal complaint? The Member concerned has been living the world ever since, receiving subsidies. Is that acceptable to you? And another sign, Mr. Secretary. Since the interpellation was delivered, it has also turned out that our fellow Member K.M.'s monogrammed partner has been placed under pre-trial arrest. I think that puts this case in a little different light now. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-03-06-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Nagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, the words spoken have a weight. If a criminal offence is suspected, it is the duty of the investigative authorities and the judiciary to do their job. At the same time, it is my job to put in place and disperse the incorrect information on which my fellow Member has now shown himself. In March 2015, MVH, the successor of which is the Hungarian State Treasury, first established the undue use of the aid in connection with the funds received in connection with the investment support of the fruit and vegetable production groups in the case of the Hungarian Termés NÉSZ, and immediately ordered the repayment of the aid with interest. The claim corresponding to the aid unduly paid was notified by the MVH to the Liquidator, who confirmed it. On the basis of the information I know, all officials have done their job in accordance with the legislation and have taken the necessary steps to protect EU and domestic budgetary resources. All that we had to do humanly and legally, we did. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-64	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2017-03-06-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is that the MVH probably didn't tell you the truth then, because if it had been true, it would be listed among the claimants in the Company Communication, as they listed its name to MKB Bank, the Hungarian Development Bank, the NAV Tax Administration, Ottakai Businesspark Kft. - it could be a very serious company - UniCredit Bank, then UniCredit Bank once again, NAV Békés County Tax Directorate. So everyone's listed here, this is official paper. That's why I asked him why the MVH wasn't on this one. If the MVH had notified its claim within time and time limits and had confirmed it, it would be among the claimants in the auction notice announced in this Communication. Mr. Secretary. Something's not round in this story. I need you to look into this right away. The only reason I'm not going to file a criminal report is because, as I said, this case has been under investigation for a long time, and even the first arrest has taken place, but it will probably not be over. Thank you very much, and I don't accept the answer.
u2017-03-06-66	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. Or is Viktor Orbán's money with the cashier named Lawrence? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed a minister running the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, Antal Rogán, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Secretary of State Bence Tuzson responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-67	Thank you, Mr. President. I am pleased that Mr Rogán's table is a question of corruption. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungarians, we recall bad memories at a time when the sole guarantee of success and social progress was not the ability and diligence, but loyalty to the party. Brother-in-law, my brother-in-law world, washes hands of the principle, and it's a long list of things. Unfortunately, now more and more people are saying that everything is just a matter of political relations and money. The former, namely, political relations, bring the latter. The opportunities, the winnings, and the public money. Allow me to make a specific case that will put the public in order. The biggest business success of our time is known as Lőrinc Mészáros. He is a phenomenon who suddenly appeared on the skies of business, and today he shines far beyond the most talented, diligent, fortunate entrepreneurs with his unparalleled achievements. The businessman who has increased his income by a thousand times over the course of ten years. His success is not the sweaty work, the family business carried from generation to generation, sometimes without luck. The entrepreneur, who is also referred to as a cashier in business, has identified three things, the success of which owes him: the Good Lord, fortune and Viktor Orbán. Dear Secretary of State, Lőrinc Mészáros had one company until 2010. Then came the change of government. Now, technically, there's no one who can account for the number of companies he's involved in, including Sniper Sniper himself. It's enough to think of my narrower country, Heves County, whether it's tourism, construction, entertainment complex, anything from the printed press, and everywhere, the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros started a full-time attack, without even knowing that there was such a person in Heves County a year ago, or at least the county contractors didn't have to worry about it. How is it possible, Secretary of State, that in Heves County, practically, on which Lőrinc Mészáros goes, what he seeks, what he looks at, all of it? Butcher Lawrence is an economic miracle moved by mysterious and invisible hands. The entrepreneur is an old acquaintance of Viktor Orbán, and he also attaches his success to him. So tell me, Mr. Secretary, who is Lawrence Ripper? Perhaps a cashier who manages Viktor Orbán's fortune? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-68	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Prime Minister has been a member of the Hungarian Parliament since 1990, and according to its order and manner, he has always filed his declaration of assets on the basis of Hungarian rules. In this declaration of property, according to Hungarian law, everyone must indicate reality, and during these 26 years, the declarations of property which he has provided include reality, so his financial situation is therefore completely clear. But if we are talking about brother-in-law, ladies and gentlemen, what you are talking about, my fellow Member, it is better for you to get inside yourselves and see how you operate in this regard and how you play the money around Jobbik to your brother-in-laws, to your fellow Members and to your own moonyard. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give you some examples in this regard, my fellow Members, because there is a Vice President of Jobbik whose wife is also a Advisor to Jobbik, and at the same time also works as a personal secretary. What if it's not brother-in-law? On the other hand, another politician is counseled by his father, preparing written studies for Jobbik. But let's not go far, without the need for completeness, in a small list, however, we must say that your party president's wife herself has edited your party page. This is my brother's world. You do this through state aid, remember that Jobbik operates through state aid in this respect. But it is obvious that you have changed, and in this respect you have betrayed your own voters. Now there's a different world around Jobbik, and Jobbik wants to change in this respect. But let's go back a step or two and see who you really are, which is okay in itself, but it's okay to be aware of the facts. After all, my dear fellow Member, I am sorry to say this, but you too have become a Member of Parliament with a past that you have. You were an Eger skinhead and became a Member of Parliament; obviously this is Jobbik's decision - and after that, Jobbik's nomination made you vice-president of the Parliament. [[15.00]] Of course, you can't deny this past, and you can't change that past with a cute campaign. You can't forget that if someone spits on a Holocaust monument, dishonors you, and then starts a cute campaign, you won't change. You are the same party that was before, and in this regard you are acting in the same way as before. That's what these attacks are all about. But the fact that your party president has sold the party's soul, and they want to go in a different direction from now on, they want to cover it with campaigns, doesn't mean that it would have changed you. You're the same as before. I'd like to draw your attention to that. Don't let them think that this kind of action is something that voters don't notice. The voters are aware that you have changed, that you are being delivered to entrepreneurs, to a certain entrepreneur, to his moonyard. For a certain entrepreneur who has a media empire, who is a big owner, and the area of your action will be determined in the future: power and money. And you can do anything for power and money, do anything. Remember, no one forgets that. Hungarian citizens do not forget, because Hungarian people must not be underestimated. Please don't do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-71	Mr President, Dear House, Obviously, I can't accept the answer because you didn't say a word about what I asked Mr. Secretary of State. It would have been nice to talk about that, too. But since you brought up the property statements, why can't we see Viktor Orbán's wife's property statement? Or family? Or even yours, please? At all, what are those declarations of property like, I ask you. The Jobbik alone takes the lead in this example of making everyone's declaration public. Why don't you accept our anti-corruption laws that we are constantly putting forward? Why do you have to hide these, please? Take an example of Western Europe, take an example of Northern Europe, where not only the tax return of Members is public, please, but the public of all citizens. Go this way, and not to keep secrets. Don't build your own financial base on strudels. Change, because believe me, in a year's time, you'll be surprised because there's going to be a serious change. This people won't be able to take it anymore. You can't stand the misery, the poverty that you're throwing at him through corruption! Thank you very much, I don't accept it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-72	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach and László Földi, representatives of KDNP, have submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: What are the most important measures for the second part of the administrative reduction and are further facilitations expected? It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2017-03-06-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the government, through a number of measures, proves that it takes the reduction of the rent seriously on all fronts. In 2015, 489 000 people gave their views on administrative bureaucracy reduction and reduction of overhead costs in consultation. As a result, the first package introduced in 2016 was set up: in December 2015 the Parliament voted in favour of CXCIV 2015 on the abolition of fees and administrative service charges for certain official procedures. Law, which meant savings of 12 billion for citizens and businesses. As a result of the measure, the costs of the procedural levies decreased from 1 January 2016. In order to enforce certain constitutional rights, fulfil obligations and social justice, a number of procedures became free of charge, thus eliminating the issue of the official moral certificate, the issue of the company's extract, the issue of a permanent identity card and a permanent address certificate, the issuing of a parking document for persons with reduced mobility and the levy on the issue of a driver's licence. In order to further reduce administrative costs, a quarter of a million people were given an opinion in last summer's consultation, and the government considered in which area there would be another reduction. The bill submitted by the Government was adopted by the Parliament on 21 February 2017. On this basis, I ask, Mr Secretary of State, what are the most important measures for the second part of the administrative reduction? Is there any further facilitation or reduction of fees and charges in the framework of the administrative reduction? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zoltán Kovács responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-75	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, The economy is growing in Hungary, and as a result, the country is becoming stronger. The country's management may waive the benefits of large social groups that are income-related to the state. For example, administrative service charges or, where appropriate, charges. But the government does not do this for its own sake, but asks voters who appear as customers in the public administration through a consultation that can be called a national consultation on the Internet and personal consultation. In August 2015, some 400 000 people expressed their views on the charges and the administrative service charges mentioned by the Member who could be waived by the State. Here we targeted different social groups. A group of young people, the group of families with multiple children, the entrepreneurial circle, and this continued in 2016, which was referred to by the Member. Here, too, hundreds of thousands of people have expressed their views on the fees or service charges in which it would be good to reduce or even eliminate the State's obligation to pay. Parliament, as has been said, decided on this at the end of February, and today the law has been proclaimed. The law will enter into force on 16 March, so that it will apply, both in the government window and in the various official procedures, the reductions in fees which the Member mentioned. To say a few things, a major proposal to reduce the burden on individuals, for example, is that citizens over the age of 65 can exchange passports for free or that the birth certificate will be free of charge from the coming period. Perhaps in this context, the government's family home creation programme, called CSOK, had to pay a fee to justify the family home creation discount. They're all gone now. What concerns many people, for example, is the search for electronic property from land offices. That's why we've already had to pay, and now it's electronically, not authentically debriefable. On the business side of this year, we can expect a fee reduction of approximately HUF 2 billion from 16 March. If we add the previous savings of around 2 to 2.5 billion in business and business matters, we add to the savings of about HUF 10 billion to the population, then we can say that we can talk about a reduction of between HUF 10 and HUF 15 billion per year and savings. As a result, we believe that bureaucracy will not only be reduced by changing the legislation, simplifying the legislation, but also by reducing or abolishing the various charges, not by going to the post office, but simply by submitting a procedural request. This is particularly important in relation to home affairs, who open a customer door and deal with matters electronically. In view of this, I can confirm that the state intends to continue this programme, now on issues relating to the car industry. So I can answer your question yes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2017-03-06-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-77	Thank you. Of course, I accept the Secretary of State's reply, and I consider it particularly important that part of this administrative reduction, which, as Mr Secretary said, fits into the family support system, because if I mention only that it is free in 18 years, the administrative procedure will not have to be paid from 1 March this year, then I say that we have supported the families again. So this administrative reduction also clearly shows the government's intention to take the steps it has taken in the area of public administration for the benefit of the Hungarian people, for the benefit of the Hungarian families, and we hope that it will continue to do so in the future. Thank you again for your answer, Mr. Secretary of State, and I accept. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Készés, an independent representative, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the government want to destroy the University of Pannonia? It's an address. It's up to Congressman Zoltán.
u2017-03-06-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Veszprém university town. I'm gonna ask the wallet not to take that status away. Do not attach the Georgikon Faculty, do not make the University of Pannonia impossible with this professionally unfounded decision, which not only ensures the livelihood of thousands of families in Veszprém, Keszthely and other settlements, but also determines the identity of the Veszprém people. As an independent Member working in an individual constituency, I think it is important that we have a voice in matters of local importance to the decision-makers of the Ministry, and I also consider it important that this voice is not just the voice of an independent representative. Therefore, in the context of my current interpellation, I sent a letter to the citizens of Veszprém, from former representatives to mayors, from teachers to students, from civilians to politicians, asking them to come together and make suggestions on how we can jointly convince the ministry of our right. This interpellation also includes the proposals received, indicating that there is no right and left in this case, we have Veszprém's identity, the fate of the University of Pannonia. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of your colleague László Palkovics's proposal, which contains commercially unfounded false facts and false conclusions, the current education policy intends to attach Georgikon Kart, which is an integral part of the University of Pannonia, to make it part of St. Stephen's University. It is our duty to draw the attention of you and the decision makers to the many mistakes and sins of this proposal. It does not correspond to the reality that there is no way to carry out foreign language training on Georgikon with the current staff. The reality is that due to the excellence of personnel, more foreign language training is being carried out at Georgikon. In fact, in Transdanubia, the largest number of foreign language agricultural trainings are taking place. It is incomprehensible why the draft government does not consider the institution sustainable and competitive at international level, when Georgikon has the largest project revenue among the Hungarian agricultural and higher education institutions, with HUF 4.3 billion in the last six years. I would like to draw the attention of the decision makers to the fact that the University of Pannonia and, thus, the Georgikon Faculty have never had to be consolidated, the institution has no debt, no management is sound, it is certain. Georgikon is one of the oldest agricultural higher education institutions in Europe, Hungary's most patina, with the largest number of students, with the most effective agricultural higher education institutions in Transdanubia. What is the reason behind the intention to disconnect? Do you know that the attachment of the Georgikon Faculty is a threat to the mother institution? Without Georgikon's currently 1500 students, the university status of the University of Pannonia is called into question, it falls away from a number of EU applications linked to the number of students, and your decision could lead to a spiral of defeat that we Veszprémians would not dare to imagine. We're afraid if that happens, you'll be digging the graves of the Veszprém. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] the grave of independent higher education. The government's position on the University of Pannonia is based on incorrect findings. [[The president's ringing again.]] If you expect a professional decision from your wallet...
u2017-03-06-80	Congressman, please, your time is three minutes.
u2017-03-06-81	Thank you very much. So I ask you, Minister of State, to do everything possible to continue scientific work at the University of Pannonia, both in Veszprém and in Keszthely. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-03-06-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm embarrassed by his interpellation, not because of the contents, but because he has two headers. Your name is on one of the headings, Mr. Congressman, but there is a higher header, the header of the Hungarian Law Office. I must admit, I have never seen such an interpellation, which is sent by the appointment of a law firm as the sender. You can see here that this was sent by fax, but it is a little strange to me, honourable Member, that you are now in fact in a contractual relationship with this office and are sending you the text that you will then read here in Parliament, or that the university is in contractual relations with it. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Like the Trafic Act!]] It would be comforting for us if you could tell us exactly when you wrote this interpellation or an interpellation by a law firm. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. Zoltan is ready to interrupt.]] who write your opposition texts. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't know exactly, you're talking about consulting people here and representing their views; you're actually consulting people. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Answer!]] You're either the bailiff of a law firm or a lawyer's employer here in Parliament. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Answer me! Gábor István Bellozó: Stop it!]] [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't know exactly, you were talking about consulting people here and expressing their views; you are actually consulting people (interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Answer!) Or you're the bailiff of a law firm or a lawyer's employer here in Parliament. (Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Answer! - Gábor István Bellozó: Stop it!) It is important that we get answers to these questions, because the question is important, and it has not just come up in the government. (Continuous noise. - The president's ringing. It seems that relatively many people here know this law firm from the ranks of the MSZP, and they're talking in and out of it, and they might have good connections with them. So this is an important issue, which we have already dealt with in our strategy "Training in Higher Education" in relation to agricultural education. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You will lose again in Veszprém!]] However, from the point of view of rejoinder, I would like to thank you if you could say, [[István Gábor Bellozó: Mr President! The Secretary of State should be ordered to order.]] why do you submit such documents... [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]]
u2017-03-06-84	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. I don't usually interrupt, but I have to. [[Towards the lines of the MSZP:]] Congressman, it's not your interpellation, and please hear me out. The congressman, who told the interpellation, was heard by the entire Parliament. Please do the same. Thank you.
u2017-03-06-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] And then, after the first line of interpellation, let me respond to the rest. As I said, the transition in higher education, the strategy also discussed in detail the development possibilities of the agricultural training area, Debrecen, Szeged, Hódmezővásárhely, Kaposvár and Keszthely will be both the development area for the development of agricultural education. They will all be the winners of the improvements we want to make in agricultural education. On the one hand, we would like to expand teaching research capacities in each place, improve the concentration of human resources, and also create a knowledge centre for modern needs in each of the places that I have read, including, of course, Keszthely and all other centres. We want to create an international research and training centre everywhere, with a stable international relationship system, and also with the fact that there are no indicators, such as for some training courses, that 25 percent of graduates do not use their degrees within the profession in the case of adult training. In order for training and innovation competitiveness to be the basis for successful development, a national institutional structure is obviously also necessary. There have been many proposals in this regard, but no decision has been taken. You have spoken of certain issues as if they were decided or at least before a decision is made, while this is not the case. As I have told you, all existing training places will have a very important role and significance in the agricultural education of the future, so please, either through the law firm or directly, but reassure the Keszthelyi that we also have important ideas for strengthening agricultural education for them. So we do not want to eliminate, but we want to strengthen these trainings. But you have made a good point, honourable Member, that we would like to strengthen it in foreign language training. According to our knowledge, a foreign language agricultural education is taking place, so we believe that this could be expanded. We want to develop international research potential, to create such a centre, and not to operate independently of each other, but to work together with each other. I believe that the University of Pannonia has a stable future in Veszprém, Kőszeg, Nagykanizsa and Keszthely. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I've included the lost time frame. Congressman, I'm asking you if you'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I really wanted to accept your constructive response, but the problem is that we didn't get an answer. You have read your reply to my written question on 19 January, almost word for word, which is why this interpellation came. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How are things with the law firm?]] The fact is that you also probably missed the letter written by the Fidesz MEP in Zala County to your colleague, the Minister, that this concept should not be implemented. I, too, in the county of Veszprém, wanted a similar constructive motion with the Fidesz MEPs there, but unfortunately, the Fidesz Members of Veszprém County are more interested than the fate of the University of Pannonia in what kind of air lines are going on in the area of their house or holiday home. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] I would also like to mention that I had the pleasure of teaching British history at the University of Pannonia ten years ago, and we taught Victorian Britain how much he did for higher education and public education. [[15.20]] The fact is, I am afraid that a study on Victorian Hungary will be carried out with exactly the opposite sign in the future. Thank you, I cannot accept your answer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How are things with the law firm? Intercoms in the benches of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 34 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Róbert Szallai Benedek, representatives of LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:, Why is the Orbán government also an enemy of solar energy? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2017-03-06-89	[[No sound.]] Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I suppose the written question or the interpellation was given... [[Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches: No sound!]]
u2017-03-06-90	Congressman, please turn on your microphone. Or is your card placed? They can't hear the speech.
u2017-03-06-91	Card's set, microphone's clipped.
u2017-03-06-92	Yeah, it's okay now, it wasn't just now. You have the floor. [[It's a lot of noise.]]
u2017-03-06-93	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Dear Fidesz Members, Just stay calm, I'll tell you about the interpellation. Don't worry. I asked Mr. Secretary of State if he got the interpellation. On the other hand, I would just like to ask what is in it: wind energy has been banned in Hungary, the energy strategy has been told to you in a pen in Moscow. My question is, do you think it's a complete idiot to tax the solar panel? [[It's a lot of noise.]] I'm asking you to talk about the solar panel, why this zero-forint distribution fee is a good idea. I expect your answer with respect. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Aradszki responds to the interpellation. It's all yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-95	Thank you very much for the opportunity to answer the Member's short but quick question, namely, what is the situation with this distribution fee, which is one of the elements of the system usage charge paid for the operation of the electricity system. This system usage fee is laid down in a regulation by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in accordance with the relevant EU framework. The department, as you mentioned, has currently set the rate of the distribution fee at zero forints. I trust that this fact will show in greater depth that this is an award that, by its scale, is unfit to make anyone impossible. However, I have to add an important element that is that the electricity generator is obliged to pay the distribution fee, which is currently zero forints, where there is a new power plant with a maximum capacity of 4 kilowatts compared to the average household energy consumption. In the event that this small power plant is at an annual level of less than 4 kilowatts, it can be said that there is no charge for the power producer, so there is no payment obligation under 4 kilowatts. It should be added that the average performance of these small domestic power plants in the country is 2.5 kilowatts, which clearly shows that there is considerable room for manoeuvre, so the majority of people, it can be said, are not affected by this zero-forint fee, but in the event that the office raises zero-forints, the consumer or the electricity producer who has to pay this system charge element is much less. I believe that this charging is behind the need to ensure a cost-effective accounting instead of making renewable energy impossible. Because in the event that it would not set any fees above 4 kilowatts, as the authority does now, it would not, but it would not, in the future, set out and spread these power generation solutions more widely, the system usage costs due to the extra energy supply would increase, and in this case it would actually spread these costs to everyone. Therefore, this part of the system charge would also be paid by those who otherwise do not have a small domestic power plant with such capacity. This is as if someone is producing in the backyard and producing surplus, producing a large surplus, a market-size surplus, and paying a tax on its sales, income and profits. In this case, this supposed fee - I say that it is assumed that it is currently zero forints - will serve in the future to ensure that the use of the system will be more balanced and will serve the protection of smaller consumers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-96	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your question. I would reject the adoption of this, given that this statement is based on the fact that, in response to the statement by the Secretary of State, the family houses are below 4 kilowatts. You should know that, because you manage the applications, most of them go up to 6 kilowatts, and sometimes more on family houses. So it's untrue to say that the majority is below 4 kilowatts. No, you want to tax the solar panel to be installed on the family houses. This is specifically the case, that anyone who has not completely turned away from renewable energies should turn away and not be able to buy energy from anywhere outside Moscow in Hungary. He obviously started by thanking us for the opportunity; they would have been given the opportunity last week, but our question was just rejected, and we couldn't ask our question about it. What must be understood to my fellow Members and State Secretary: MSZMP, Fidesz, nuclear energy - this is XX. Company. This is what needs to be dealt with, and the renewable energy source and the 21st century. It's time for centuries of parties. I'm asking the government to move. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-98	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, János Halász, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, Is it still appropriate to maintain the crisis caused by mass immigration? It's an address. Mr János Halász has the floor.
u2017-03-06-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As the good weather comes, more and more migrants arrive at the Hungarian-Serbian border. Many have tried illegal border crossings several times, but failure does not stop them. Meanwhile, supplies are continuing, with nearly 100,000 people on the Balkan route heading towards the European Union. It is important that this type of threat is taken very seriously by the Hungarian government. In order to ensure effective action against mass illegal migration and to protect the state border, the crisis caused by mass immigration was introduced earlier as a new category. A derogation from the general rules of the legal system is required. The attacks and riots that have been carried out in Europe over the last two years also require a continuous obligation for the Hungarian government to take action. There has long been no debate on Europe's danger and illegal migration and terrorism are a threat to people's daily lives. Illegal immigrants are trying to continue to reach Europe with incredible determination, and they are not actually intimidated by anything. Thousands of people are waiting in the Serbian capital. They are often repatriated from Western Europe, and they join the smuggling network, who move them within an organised framework: they give them instructions on how not to cooperate with the authorities, what to say or how to use the media. Although the establishment of the Hungarian fence and the government's measures have alleviated the migratory pressure, we still have a number of challenges to anticipate, as the underlying causes of mass migration remain unchanged. It is therefore essential to prepare for an increase in the current wave this year, and in the coming months, with the spring weather, the process on the Balkan routes can recover, so it is crucial that the effectiveness of the border closure is maintained. [[15.30]] The tightening of borders has led migrants to become stuck in several places, but many people are waiting in illegal camps near borders, hoping that borders will be opened soon, or that smugglers will lead them to new routes. Mr. Secretary of State. What does the government do to ensure that increasing migratory pressure continues to pose a threat to the safety of Hungarian people? Is the crisis still justified? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Yes, it is justified to maintain the crisis caused by mass immigration in the future. On 1 March, the Defence and Police Committee was informed of the measures taken in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the National Police Headquarters and the Immigration and Asylum Office have unitedly expressed the view that they are proposing an extension of the crisis caused by mass immigration. The facts of the past six months prove that the imposition of a crisis caused by mass immigration has contributed to the safety of the Hungarian people, Hungary. The laws that could be applied in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration could be applied by the Hungarian authorities, the police, the defence, the Immigration and Asylum Office, and thus managed to protect the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Honourable Congressman, These laws were, for example, the Hungarian Defence Act, the application of the law on the applicability of the special legal order, the possibility of proceeding in the transit zone, the shortening of procedural deadlines and all the rules that allowed us to protect the country effectively and effectively after 15 September 2015. The extension of the crisis situation is surrounded by appropriate procedural guarantees and is based on constant monitoring. It is the duty of the national police commissioner and the head of the asylum authority to monitor the situation of the crisis situation caused by mass immigration and to inform the Minister of Interior every 15 days. This information has been made or is done every 15 days. At the initiative of the head of the national police commissioner and the head of the asylum authority, on the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, the government may impose a decree on the crisis caused by mass immigration. This should always be reviewed every six months, and the government will always comply with its legal obligation by deadline. The risk analysis carried out by Frontex, the European Agency for the Management of the External Borders, shows that the migratory pressure does not decrease and the threat remains. There are 60,000 illegal migrants in Greece, with an estimated 10-12 thousand illegal migrants in Serbia. The weather has improved the movement of irregular migrants both in Bulgaria and Serbia and in Macedonian-Greece. On the Western Balkans route, around 100,000 illegal migrants are expected to enter the European Union. The maintenance and application of legal, physical and living protection at national level remains justified and necessary and the government decided to extend the crisis situation until 7 September throughout the country. Mr. Congressman, The events of the past nearly two years prove that Parliament made the right decision in September 2015 when it adopted these important laws and created the triple protection. This protection should be maintained gradually and gradually strengthened. This, by the way, will be decided tomorrow by Parliament on a very important law, which is about tightening up the legal border. I am also taking this opportunity, within the framework of the interpellation response, to draw the attention of my fellow Members, that it is in the interests of Hungary, the Hungarian people, to adopt these laws tomorrow and to ask you to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-102	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-103	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. We heard that the government is doing everything in its power to protect the Hungarian people. This is also necessary, as the data show that the migratory pressure is not falling, as you said, as more than 5,000 illegal attempts at border crossing have already taken place this year. This is indeed why we should support the law on the strengthening of the legal borderlock tomorrow, because this is the law that gives Hungary stronger protection in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration and thus provides Europe with stronger protection. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "The Future of Hospitals in Miskolc." Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2017-03-06-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs State Secretary for Health announced on 28 February in Miskolc that the county hospital and MISEK, i.e. the former institution of urban reserve, would be merged. At the press conference, the secretary of state immediately called this new institution a super hospital, but he forgot to explain why the super hospital was a super hospital. For now, it appears that it is a simple institution-association that was immediately addressed by a communication trick using the super-hospital name. However, it is not clear how this would improve the quality of care for people. Question: in what areas can the Miskolcs and the people of the county expect improvement? People are also making use of the suspicion lawsuit that the whole restructuring is all about Dr. Gábor Csiba, the removal of the Director General of the County Hospital from the head of the county institution. Therefore, there will be no change in the quality of care, and despite the name of the super-hospital. Plus, the hospital staff are worried about what their fate will be, what change will bring them. There is also the question of what will be the future of the health institutions in Diósgyőr, the Iron Factory SZK, the hospital that has been able to provide shrinking care for people living in the area in recent years. It is a question of how these institutions are intended to be developed, as walnuts also need appropriate health care and specialties. The long distances, the huge lines downtown, are causing a lot of problems. Dear Secretary of State, The question arises as to how many new doctors, nurses, will be working at the so-called super hospital as of April 1. How many new CT scans, how many new X-rays, medical instruments are being put into service in a single institution? How much less do those waiting for blood to be taken and those who wish to get into the clinic have to wait? Have you agreed before your decision with the stakeholders, the employees' representatives? What are the real reasons behind personal decisions, so the actual removal of the Director General of the County Hospital? I would like to point out that there have been reports of corruption cases in the online media in the county hospital last week. What do you intend to do to improve the sites in Diósgyőr, so that the iron factory SZTK and the iron factory hospital can be developed? What would you like to do to strengthen the specialized orders, especially in Nutmeg? When are you going to solve the real problem of the people of Miskolc in Borsodi? Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-03-06-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In fact, one of the largest hospitals in Hungary will be established on April 1, fully known as the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Central Hospital and University Training Hospital. This will be one of the largest in Hungary, which is why we said that it is a super hospital, because it can provide patients with emergency care in all disciplines. Our aim with this restructuring, which has already taken place in many other counties in the previous years, is to make patient care more organised and effective, which can clearly improve the quality of care and patient safety. This type of organisation of resources will ensure that a specific area of expertise is fully developed, including the acquisition of state-of-the-art tools in a given profession, and that we try to focus on a wide range of professional skills in one place. As I mentioned, in this institution, virtually the entire professional spectrum is realized, so patients do not need to be directed from one hospital to another, from one hospital to another, but can receive and provide all patients as a super hospital. I think this is clearly in the interest of the locals, who are not only miskolcs, they are not only residents of the county, but also beyond the county's borders, the hospital's scope and supply area, since 38 professions have cross-border tasks with a total of 835 thousand inhabitants. [[15.40]] In two areas, even the regional border is exceeded by the third task of supplying centres at the level of progressivity, and it also has a supply area in eight other professions within the county's borders. The expected patient traffic on the 3511 bed will exceed 120,000 people, while outpatient traffic will be 2 million 180,000 people per 11 500 hours per week at ordering time. The relationship between the workers is not affected, so we are still counting on everyone's work, and we need them, because the amount of tasks does not change. With 4500 employees, 655 doctors, 3 000 workers and 900 other jobs, the institution would continue the treatment of patients with a budget of nearly HUF 31.5 billion. The situation of the plant in Diósgyőr is not affected by this change, honourable Member, there too can be an undisturbed process of healing work in 20 professions, 31 orders, 860 hours a week, and even the outpatient clinic in a comprehensive renovation in the following areas. In the two hospitals, i.e. the county and the city hospitals, we have made nearly HUF 22 billion worth of development in recent years, a modern block building was created with intensive emergency diagnostic and operating windows, and further buildings have also been renovated. There were medical developments in the field of oncology, surgery, child rehabilitation and preterm infant care, as well as in the fields of pulmonary, neurological, psychiatric and rehabilitation worth HUF 19 billion. There was an energy upgrade of HUF 1 billion worth 450 million, and we tried to give development, further training and other human development to the employees for almost HUF 675 million. Of course, Gábor Csiba will continue to play an important role in the field of health, he will be given a national task, on which he has also started discussions in the Ministry last week. And when this is over, we'll find out exactly what it's gonna be, but with his expertise, expertise, decades of hospital experience - maybe, if I remember correctly, he's had 17 years of leadership experience, and he's been a healer for several decades - in the hospital, I think we'll need it later. The change will therefore take place smoothly on 1 April, and we hope that this will not interfere with patient care, but will improve it further. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-109	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, He didn't talk about future developments. He didn't answer whether it would make more machines, whether it would make more doctors, whether it would make more nurses for patients in Miskolc County. He didn't answer the question of how the super hospital alone would improve care. You forgot to answer the corruption suspect cases, you didn't even mention that question. I'm not surprised, so I'll ask you about it later. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Go!]] This series of corruption suspected of corruption must not remain undiscovered in the life of the county hospital. He didn't respond to the waiters at the specialist's office, nor did he reassure the walnuts. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: For what?]] because it didn't give a precise answer to what improvements they could expect. So I could also say that the date of 1 April is a joke or a serious, but it is very sad, it is tragic, because in the European Union's competitiveness ranking, the 262nd of the 263 regions of the Northern Hungary region in the health parameter. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is unacceptable! Miskolc, Borsod county and the Northern Hungary region deserve much more in the field of health...
u2017-03-06-110	I need an answer, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-111	I can't accept your answer.
u2017-03-06-112	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Instead of catching up the countryside, the resurrection of feudalism? Or is Viktor Orbán's money with the cashier named Lawrence? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed a minister running the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, Antal Rogán, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Secretary of State Bence Tuzson responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! According to the Wikipedia Internet Encyclopedia and the Explanatory Dictionaries: the Landlord or oligarch is a self-dominating nobleman, a small king in a larger part of the country. On his vast estate, he is an unqualified feudal master, who usually abuses his power, that is, a arbitrary leader. In addition, he usually uses royal privileges, regardless of the king's approval. If people are asked today in Hungary who these lines are most suitable for, the majority of them will cut the name of Lőrinc Mészáros without thinking about it. Perhaps the only thing that doesn't suit him is that he does his work independently of the king, and he seems more like a king-friendly landlord. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] The question is, then, whether the mayor of Felcsút and his family really is the typical, crusty-handed farmer who had to give state lands, or perhaps something else. People do not see what Lőrinc Mészáros claims about himself as being smarter than Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder, but there must be some reason why the entrepreneur from the small gas company has increased his revenues by a thousand times over ten years. For the question of miraculous enrichment, Lőrinc Mészáros once said that he had worked for 18-20 hours a day for decades alone because of his fast-flowing billions. I like to work, explained by the extreme workaholic billionaire. However, with a simple head count, it comes out that if that is true, he could sleep three hours a day. If you look at it, the only thing on the planet among mammals is the giraffe that can survive with so much sleep, so it's definitely a great achievement. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: That's good!]] But even so, Secretary of State, it does not explain why a billionaire entrepreneur and his family had to privatise the fattest parts of the state land in Fejér County. By the way, Lőrinc Mészáros spent HUF 506 million on state land; his brother, János, bought 200 ha, Beatrix 296 ha - I'm talking about his wife - but Beatrix's daughter also bought 276 ha, and Ágnes' daughter also bought 209 ha. [[Dr. Zsolt Legény: Officially!]] So the family bought 1391 hectares of land for 1941 million forints. Speaking of county, Fejér, István Tiborcz, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, as well as the relatives and friends of several Fidesz politicians. But it may be that the whole thing is that you didn't lie so much, and you really did try to help family farms, family friends with these lands, but you forgot to tell me earlier that you know these families very well. After all this, let us look at what the real Hungarian farmers have: nothing, so simply can be summarized, Mr Secretary of State. Based on all this, I look forward to a meaningful response to when they deal with Lőrinc Mészáros instead of enriching the countryside. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] with problems, real-life, real-life family farmers. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-06-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, the Hungarian government, as a national government, considers the issue of Hungarian land to be a national issue and the fundamental question that Hungarian land should remain in Hungarian hands [[Why in Somogy...]] and, if possible, local farmers should acquire the ownership of the Hungarian land, as was the case in this ominous programme, since the Hungarian farmers acquired the land at an open auction at a fair market price. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why did you have to sell it?]] They have acquired this land under strict conditions, but I say that the basic goal and the basic goal of the.Earth for farmers is to keep the Hungarian land under Hungarian control, even though you know that according to European Union rules, the land purchase moratorium has now ceased. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Have you seen Somogyi's summary? How was Somogy?]] Therefore, Hungarian rules must be created in such a way that the land that remains in Hungarian hands can always be value, primary, and that is how we can implement the land auction. [[Zoltán Pride: If you hadn't sold it, yes!]] The land is basically intended to be given to the farmer by the man who cultivates it. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Gasman?]] So it's for the people who are the Hungarian farmers. Accordingly, small and medium-sized owners were the ones who could buy real estate and land. Ladies and gentlemen. This means 30,000 people in Hungary, 30,000 people, of whom 1,200 are young entrepreneurs, and they have the future of young entrepreneurs. So I ask you accordingly not to attack this programme, because through this you are attacking 30,000 people and also attacking the 1200 young people on whom the future can be founded in Hungary. [[Zoltán Pride: And who is the father?]] [[15.50]] In Hungary it is customary for generations to cultivate the land together, it is a natural thing [[Zoltán Grimlock: Have you ever been on the floor?]] But in Hungary, the acquisition of land has very strict rules. The strict rule is that no one in Hungary, no individual can buy land over 300 hectares, and this must be guaranteed in the future, the future of small and medium estate Hungary. I understand, my fellow Member, that you would like to operate a whole other system from Jobbik, because your owner is, after all, a large owner - a major estate owner - and, of course, also a media contractor, so this is in the interest of these types of speeches. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The Butcher is getting bigger.]] You do not want small and medium-sized enterprises to be supported in Hungary, you want the state support of large owners to return. After all, the fact that state aid today primarily concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, you do not like it or, of course, the owner of your bread tax does not like it. By the way, you have also betrayed your own programme, as you are going against the previous programme that you wrote in your own programme in 2014, as you said that a new division of land was needed. And what happens when a new land distribution takes place in Hungary? 30,000 people - 30,000 people! - get land fair and fair auction in Hungary, then you will attack this program with the greatest possible vehemency. [[What about the other 9 million?]] I think that this clearly means that you have gone against your previous agenda. Earlier, you said on other issues, and I always say that you are the party that is strong in words, but in the end, you are weak in action. After all, if we see only the amendment of the basic law, the amendment of the basic law to the one who doesn't vote for it, you said he was a traitor. And how it ended, you didn't vote for the amendment of the basic law. This is how you act on all issues, and you constantly represent the interests of the major estate, the large owners, against small and medium-sized enterprises. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-116	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it. Please, you have the floor.
u2017-03-06-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer. Are you accusing us of supporting the great estate? It's quite amazing, Mr. Secretary. What kind of real farmers are you talking about when you talk about selling state land? The real farmers were allowed to get diribs of land tops, but I guarantee you, no one here is going to see him work his own land in a tractor. [[Proud Zoltán: It's better! But it's madness from Jobbik's ranks.]] If Jobbik had rented these lands, they would have been guaranteed to use family farmers and, of course, the state would not have disposed of its last national assets. So the state would have owned it so that real family farmers could use these lands. Lőrinc Mészáros' access to state lands serves no other purpose than that when Viktor Orbán is out of power, he will continue to live as a king. From 2018, we will not only deprive Viktor Orbán of his power, but also of the opportunity to continue living as a king. I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-118	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 36 against. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Billions to billionaires: who are the winners of Fidesz's agricultural policy? It's an address. By replying to the interpellation, Prime Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Minister for Agriculture with responsibility and competence according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister István Nagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, So far, my fellow Hungarian Member has spoken about the fate of the land, and we are talking about the fate of the subsidies, because you can also see where you put the billions of agricultural products that the EU and Hungarian taxpayers give. In practice, my fellow Member left out the name of Sándor Csányi, the name of Zsolt Nyerges, Tamás Leisztinger, and all the billionaires to whom you play the Hungarian agricultural subsidies. And obviously, there is a question of what the Prime Minister will say. Recently, he gave a speech at the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as he is a villager like everyone else, and therefore he feels that he is morally correct and otherwise reasonable, he thinks - I think - that billionaires should give the billions. At the moment, Hungary is spending HUF 3700 billion on agricultural subsidies in the 2014-2020 agricultural period. This is more than Paks costs, more than an Olympics, and the Hungarian society and you are idly watching to support the billionaires. Because practically 500 farmers, less than 0.3 percent of applicants, take close to one fifth of the resources. You're the ones who give billions to billionaires as support. And it is true that János Lázár announced in 2015 that he would stop this process with the various grant ceilings, and the 2016 payout statistics proved that nothing has changed. You also represent Sándor Csányi in Parliament and not the Hungarian people. You are also the party of Lőrinc Mészáros, not of Hungarian society. You are also the party of Tamás Leisztinger, and we are not talking about medium and family farmers. Apparently, the Fidesz support him the most. Obviously, the question arises of the support schemes in which foreign agri-businesses can appear, both in the field privatisation and in the aid policy. After all, the top list includes Italian, Dutch, British and Belgian farmers who can receive hundreds of millions of dollars a year in Hungary. Technically, it is this support system that allows the largest 500 farms to receive HUF 275 million each, while the remaining one receives nearly HUF 180 thousand of 3 million, despite the fact that they have the key to employment and remaining in the countryside, and there is the issue of local jobs. Obviously, the question arises as to how long they thought that such lies, said by Secretary of State Tuzson, could influence the Hungarian public. You put the billionaires in the position, you give the aid, you give the land to them, and you maintain this system that the MSZP has built. Politics hasn't changed, and as long as they're here, there's no change to be expected. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-120	Dear Parliament, State Secretary István Nagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I suggest we put the emotion aside a little and understand. After all that you are saying, that the subsidies must serve the Hungarian agriculture, they must serve the people of the countryside, we all agree. And I'm asking you to be prepared to listen to the arguments I'd like to make for you. The vast majority of the subsidies are of a normative nature. In other words, it depends on how many hectares of agricultural land you produce or how many animals you keep, and whether or not you comply with a series of strict rules. The subsidies paid for these items faithfully reflect the agricultural structure of the country, not only Hungary, but also all the countries of the EU. What I would like to say to you, and I would like to ask you here to agree that you have spoken of a moment, but if you listen to me, you will see that, with every day we go forward, the percentages, the proportions, precisely the regulations drawn up by these governments, are becoming more and more fragmented by the great estates. It's not just this government in history, it's an ancestors. And the decision of those ancestors must be made with us. However, the decisions of this government are those that help us regulate the maximum of 300 hectares, helping us to regulate that 1200 hectares cannot be paid. These were all huge measures, and I think all our fellow Members can be proud of that. After all, Hungary is the first country to make the toughest decisions on this. We cannot be accused by our fellow Member of being on the side of these major estates, but we do exactly what we do every day, how we can keep it, how we can make it more and more of the 300-hectare areas, and we can break down the big ones into smaller and smaller areas. And how right I am here, you can see that 58 percent of them are now economically counting on small estates, and only the rest belong to the big one. Here you are, my dear fellow Member, according to the central data of the HCSO, which is why I would like to ask you not to be guided by emotions, but by facts and figures. And I'm asking you, if you're looking at a point, at least acknowledge that the processes ahead of you are getting worse or better. And I ask that, as you see, we are making a law, because you voted in favour of these laws, and you too are a parliamentary father of Parliament, and you can see how the coming times, in the future, will continue to serve how small estates will be supported, how more and more people will be able to make a living from Hungarian agriculture, how we can serve the development of the countryside, how we can help the people living in the countryside to survive there. [[16.00]] After all, every single forint serves to keep people working, and I must say to you, the development of livestock production, the increase in emissions, the record productions of recent years all prove that agriculture is going in the right direction by regulation, but we still have inheritances to regulate, which will develop as a result of regulations. I ask you, in my answer, that the processes that are taking place positively in agriculture, please acknowledge and accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-122	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and ask the Member if he will accept it. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-123	Mr. Speaker, With all due respect, I wouldn't accept the answer because I value that process emotionally. Until the privatization of the agricultural land, nothing was changed, the same structure was maintained as the Gyurcsány governments or the MSZP governments, and the situation deteriorated significantly after the privatization of the land because the estate continued to be concentrated. Forgive me, Secretary of State, if you had any intention, you would have passed the repeatedly submitted plant regulation law so that a natural person could not receive the aid through more legal persons. Obviously you say that we are talking about a moment, and I am analysing the current 2016 data, but we are talking about 2016, which means that 6 years after the government, the same trends are still the same as Sándor Csányi, who has been leading the grants for 8 years, 10 years, or the period when the MSZP was ruling. That means you couldn't make any difference in seven years, so who's gonna believe you can make any difference after that? They didn't mean to. And what you're talking about is that over 1,200 hectares of subsidies have been reduced, and you can see that there's no result. 2016 a sample year [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When these billionaires haven't changed. I can't accept your answer. [[The president's ringing again.]] And I see you're still representing the big owners and billionaires. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer, so I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why do Hungarian consumers deserve lower quality products than our European counterparts? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2017-03-06-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks there has been another scandal in the international food chains in Hungary. We have heard before that distressed workers, the acquisition of the market at all costs, the displacement of the Hungarians, the sabotage of domestic suppliers, but after attempts to escape from public burdens, which we unfortunately suspected a long time ago: international chains are simply selling us a worse product than they do in their own countries, and most of the time at the same price. This is outrageous, and it literally affects all of us, all of us, because every Hungarian citizen is also a customer. As consumers and European citizens, our legitimate expectation and even our demand is that neither food nor other non-food products should be distinguished, nor should we be disadvantaged compared to Austrian, German, British or French consumers. As with high quality products produced in Hungary, we have the right to have foreign products available on the shelves of multinationals of the same quality and ingredients at home as they are abroad. Dear Secretary of State, Please inform us of the reality of the news released in the press. Is it true that the food intended for the Hungarian market of some large multi-company companies, after carrying out the various sensory and compositional tests, shows a meaningful difference compared to the products available in Western Europe or even in neighbouring Austria? For many people, it may be familiar to the feeling that if you buy a piece of a popular, say, cocoa buttered peanut butter at home or across the Austrian border, the product purchased in Austria is significantly finer, more spreadable, and perhaps more similar to peanuts in its flavour. I could mention chocolates, cocoa powder, spices, or even soft drinks; according to some rumors, this is also true for certain household or cosmetic products. Dear Secretary of State, I believe that this process, which will affect more and more products every day at the expense of Hungarian consumers, must be prevented by a joint effort and a decisive step by the government. I ask the honourable Secretary of State: has a comprehensive investigation been carried out on this subject, and what measures are planned to be put in place if rumors are well founded, so that the multinationals do not be able to sell products of a lower quality than in other countries? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I would like to inform you that the government has been working continuously to improve the quality of food and to strengthen conscious customer behaviour, using all the tools available to it since 2010. Let me give you two examples. In the Ministry of Agriculture, we are constantly reviewing the various chapters of the Hungarian Food Book with the involvement of representatives of the profession, thus helping customers to obtain better food quality. Last time we amended, refined, tightened the concept of meat and increased the proportion of meat required in several products, but we also modified the chapters on bread and bakery products, in order to be able to buy better quality food. Raising consumer awareness and providing consumers with credible information is a very important issue in relation to the quality of food. Two years ago, the National Food Chain Safety Office, under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture, launched its Supermenta programme, in which every month different product groups are examined, and the results of the investigation are published on the website, so that all buyers know what to buy from certain product groups before going to the store. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] Honourable Congressman, Nébih, as you mentioned, had previously carried out a comparative analysis of 24 of the same multinational's products of the same brand. The results of the study show that, yes, most of these products, most of these foods were of lower quality than those available in Austria, and in some cases we can even say that these foods were of poor quality. These results have rightly outraged Hungarians on the one hand, and the government continues to defend the interests of Hungarian buyers. We will not let the same products be obtained in Hungary in a worse quality than in the European common market anywhere else. This problem was raised earlier in the European Union. As is well known, the Prime Ministers of the V4 countries held an extraordinary summit last week. At this meeting, we agreed to take a joint approach to the European Commission, the competent authority, in order to resolve the problem in law. I would also like to inform you that today the Agriculture and Fisheries Council is also meeting in Brussels, where we are also dealing with the issue of double standards of food for joint submissions between Slovakia and Hungary. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to inform you that on 20 February Minister Sándor Fazekas ordered another comprehensive investigation into the quality, ingredients and labelling of nearly 100 products, the result of which will be public in the second half of March; we will of course inform the public about this. I would also like to inform Mr President that a proposal on which we are already working will soon be presented to the Government; this will address the increase in the quality of food, the raising of consumer awareness and the strengthening of official work. I can also assure you that the government, as it has done so far, will continue to do everything in its power to bring healthy, safe, high-quality, possibly Hungarian food to the family table. Thank you for your attention. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.10]]
u2017-03-06-128	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to accepting the answer, of course, we must say that we know that one of the main crimes of the pre-2010 period was that, following the accession of the EU, Hungarian governments at the time did not provide any limit or reasonable control before the expansion of international companies and food chains in Hungary. One of the consequences is the food scandal we see. As a consequence, foreigners who sell Hungarian food can do this to us 60 percent. Of course, we give every support to the government to fight, and we are aware that it will fight against Brussels by means of regulations, so that Hungarian customers in Hungarian grocery stores will receive at least the same quality, excellent and possibly Hungarian products. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 4:11 p.m., we're at the end of the interpellations. Let's start talking about immediate questions. [[Noise, several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would ask my fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber, to do so quietly so that we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What do you think, Mr. President? ! It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the President for the answer in person.
u2017-03-06-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't accept it. I'll wait for Mr. Matolcsy. Thank you.
u2017-03-06-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What did you think, Mr. President? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask Mr President for his answer in person.
u2017-03-06-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will ask President Matolcsy for his answer personally. Thank you.
u2017-03-06-134	Thank you very much. Mr President will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask an immediate question at national level To the Minister of Resources:....what difference does it make to you? It's an address. Minister is here to answer, so you have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-06-135	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The Ministry's budget for 2015 was published recently. In this budget, we have a report of interesting numbers. According to the original budget, they wanted to spend 6.3 billion forints on personal benefits, but instead this item finally swelled to 11.1 billion. Originally, they wanted to spend HUF 45.3 million at target application, project premium, compared with HUF 1.6 billion. Cost of clothing was HUF 10.6 million, compared to which HUF 226 million was paid. More than half a billion forints spent on extra-wage benefits. Real estate expenses ran out, HUF 2.7 billion were planned, and eventually HUF 6.2 billion was applauded in 2015, Minister. In the autumn of 2016, you had a great statement, and you said, Minister, that this government is characterised by Puritan government. You who deal with social affairs, family affairs, Minister, every day in this ministry, I would like to ask Minister: how can the number of these items of expenditure have risen so high? How can it happen while every report in Hungary gives a devastating picture of Hungary's social situation, educational situation, the situation of Hungarian families, and for you, the Puritan government means that money is being spent with both hands in the Ministry? Minister, how can this happen in Hungary today? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-03-06-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. You have the floor, Minister.
u2017-03-06-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I thought I would answer that question personally because I had to defend the honor of at least 754 civil servants. If you really looked at the public and otherwise public data from which you are trying to work or partly try to work, it would turn out that when we planned the Ministry's budget and when we implemented it, something happened between it and the Ministry's budget. The European Union Agency, which deals with the application and payment of tenders, has been incorporated into the Ministry. 800 people have arrived. Wouldn't you have paid these people's wages? What you're talking about right now is their clothing money, that's their cafeteria, that's their overwork, that's their salary. You're sorry about them? They earned it fair and square. The transformation has been done fairly, and the other ministries have done the same thing. So I don't understand exactly what you mean by "slaughter." It is worth looking into this matter, not to sit on top of the manipulative and selective selection or possibly to accept it intentionally, which provides incorrect information about these data. I resent myself in the name of these people who have done their job. As a representative and member of the Social Democratic Inspired Party, I think that these people should demand a raise in wages to improve their working conditions rather than to take their money, because, yes, it is about them, these ordinary people. All other spending in the Ministry was carried out according to preliminary plans; unlike you, where there is a long list of cases and actions that indicate unfair and wasteful treatment with Hungarian taxpayers' money. I'd be happy to tell you a few of these if you'd like me to jog your memory. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-138	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-139	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad that 754 civil servants are so protective of their interests. I wish we could see that 10 million Hungarians are so protected every day! I am very pleased that you have come in and you want to protect these workers, just Minister, I would like to ask you where the budget of these failing institutions was at the time, what you said, that the cost of these people and their wage costs have now been absorbed into the Ministry, the Ministry's wage bill. Just give me an answer as to how many people have worked in the Ministry so far, and whether the budget really had to double if these benefits really only went to the workers, because, Minister, I don't believe you. I can't believe you had these items. Pay more attention to families, because Hungarian families are fed up with the urizing politics and lifestyle that ministries - and the data comes out that they have never seen before [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The number of government commissioners has increased, and there are many more in your ministry...
u2017-03-06-140	Congresswoman...
u2017-03-06-141	... Deputy State Secretarys and State Secretarys...
u2017-03-06-142	His time frame is long over.
u2017-03-06-143	...as ever since the change of regime. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-144	Congressman, if you please. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-145	I have some questions about the subway investment, too, if you could help me with that. [[Constant intervention from the ranks of the MSZP, between us Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That is not what I asked.]] I know you don't like this, and you don't like to talk about it, because it's very unpleasant. At least now he would have answered if he knew that there were 754 more people working in the Ministry. Answer me when you get a chance to do so in time. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély constantly intervenes.]] Because it turns out he didn't know that, but he continues to attack and talk about... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Then why aren't you talking about the 754 people whose wages were to be paid? [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] And why don't you just talk about the cases that are about your extortion? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And speaking of which, you should also answer why it is not so important for you to clarify subway investments. You're hitting decent people on the basis of manipulative numbers in a opposition paper. [[Crying from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] The ones who worked for their money. And by the way, in public data, you can view it... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] I don't think you're worthy of that style. (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes. ) If this style is worthy of you, I congratulate you on that. I listened to you without a voice. [[16.20]] You're always yelling while I'm talking, along with your fellow Members. I can only congratulate you on that. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would be ashamed of myself if I were you, talking to another person like that, not to mention that we are fellow Members. So I can only congratulate you and Congressman Varga. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-146	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, You may be tired, but the parliamentary form could be respected in substance; on a mutual basis, back and forth, Congresswoman. I do not wish to repeat, please read the minutes, I will not enter into a debate. I closed the case. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can the change of regime be different? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2017-03-06-147	Mr President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-148	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what should the Government do in order to catch up with the working Hungarian people? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prime Minister for the answer.
u2017-03-06-149	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-06-150	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. National Home Creation Program - or Viktor Orbán's money is with the cashier, who is called Lőrinc? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-03-06-151	I'll take it, thank you.
u2017-03-06-152	Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-06-153	Dear Minister, Lőrinc Mészáros, like other government businessmen, has recently started buying castles. As we learned from the press, one of his companies bought the hunting castle in Belmegyer, and then his foundation was a building in the Alcsút castle complex. Recently, we read that Bicskei had chosen a mansion for its own place, and then we heard the same about the central building of Fóti Children's City. In both cases, the Ministry of Industry, EMMI, confirmed that in the near future, the child protection function will cease, which is all the more interesting, since these buildings have been renovated for hundreds of millions of forints. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Jobbik collects signatures for this. Dóra Dúró: That's not true!]] But this is not only the common thing with regard to the two aforementioned castles, but also the fact that buildings built by former families of the High Lords are now a national property of national importance, which is protected by monuments - no matter how much Bence Rétvári, State Secretary - and, as we understand it, could only be handed over to public budget bodies for recovery. So it's not property, it's recovery. And that, and perhaps as a national minimum here, we can agree that, as a cashier, Lőrinc wants to make a home on these once aristocrat estates with a pitiful effort, he can hardly be a public goal. Is it? Without a new Fidesz aristocracy, without a spiritual, moral background and a past, is that how you want to lie to yourself about your historical rank? Dear Minister, Please make a statement here and now that these outstanding pieces of our national wealth can really be acquired by an oligarch near the government? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-154	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-06-155	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to start by saying that there would be a great national interest in constantly renovating and renewing our public and private monuments. We have finally managed to take stock of the number of monuments that are privately owned, and some of the Members of Parliament have supported the tax policy discount that is linked to the renovation of monuments. For 27 years, there has been a political consensus in Hungary that national castles of major importance should remain state-owned and remain. Since 1990, it has been annexed to a two-thirds law, and it is currently laid down in the Annex to the National Property Act, which is the national castles that remain state-owned in the long term, thus taking on no small responsibility from the state side, since the maintenance, renovation and preservation of these monuments are often difficult. In fact, after 2010, the National Assembly amended the Fundamental Law and the National Property Act in such a way that these real estates cannot be put into property recovery, only in the event of twenty years. So it is up to twenty years to conclude a recovery contract, but it is not the intention of the State to do so, in the absence of any interest, I would add, since no one wants to invest billions in 20 years. So I do not know on behalf of the government that anyone has contacted the Hungarian state that they want to acquire, buy, attribute, and can't do anything but with your help and support, the two-thirds protected properties of high national importance. As I hope, tomorrow we can obtain a two-thirds majority in order for the castle of Gestesis to be transferred to the property of the Hungarian Reformed Church in order to get it into better hands than the Hungarian state. But we don't know about any other intentions, so no one wants to touch the castles protected by a two-thirds law, and we wouldn't let them if they wanted to. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-156	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2017-03-06-157	In the case of the castle of Gest, it is a public goal, which is why we will support it. Unfortunately, however, it seems that two-thirds protection does not cover everything that is included in the second annex to the national wealth law you mentioned. That is why I have just mentioned to you the castle ensemble in Alcsút, one of which could have been acquired by a cashier, Lőrinc. That is why I ask with great respect once again, Minister, in particular, whether these are indeed two other castles, both the Fóti and the Bicskei, which are protected, in accordance with our national wealth law, part of the national wealth, can you obtain this, and can it be the apartment of the new aristocrat. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-158	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-06-159	The truth is that I can tell you that the Hungarian state has not been approached by the Mayor of Felcsút with any request, nor has he received any support in order for anyone to buy these monuments. Both are national monuments, both of which remain state-owned. One thing we want to achieve is that the children in the care of the state come to families, so the EMMI's professional program is that in the next two years children should be permanently accommodated, not in a state care facility, but in families, for their education. By the way, in several places where we tried to place illegal minors, the local community protested the most, just to give an example. These properties are otherwise completely inappropriate for this placement. There was a good example. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] - excuse me - there was a good example: the castle in Fehérvárcsurgó was used a hundred years ago to the grandson of József Károlyi, who had previously owned the castle, György Károlyi, who spent all his wealth and even the wealth of others, who renewed it from billions to the benefit of the public. So there are also very good examples of how to manage monuments well. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-160	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:.. Why is Szilárd Fazekas Sándor Kiss untouchable? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-03-06-161	Thank you, Mr. President, I'll wait for the Minister.
u2017-03-06-162	Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is this a civil Hungary? It's an address. [[16.30]] The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-03-06-163	If you don't mind, Mr. President, I'm not a congresswoman, I'm sorry.
u2017-03-06-164	Honourable Congressman, As the name of the congresswoman stood first in my script, I mentioned her name as a lady, and I did not consider that you were standing. So here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-165	No hard feelings, thank you very much for the clarification. And if you don't mind, Minister, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister; if I've waited so patiently for this week, then I can take this one week. Thank you.
u2017-03-06-166	Thank you, Congressman. I must inform you that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does the government cancel the Russian-Hungarian nuclear pact? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2017-03-06-167	No, I accept, thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Paks II was designed from the Russian loan. He's bleeding from a lot of wounds. I'm going to list five now. 1. Firstly, there is a problem with the experimental type of power plant to be sold from Russia, i.e. without references. So far, they've started building four of them, but only one of them has made it to the plant. All four projects are accompanied by official objections, design errors and huge delays. 2. There's a problem with funding and a problem with payback. It's a lie that you, Minister, claim nuclear power is cheap. Today, no one can say how much Paks II will cost in the end. avoid the country. By default, it's over 4,000 billion forints, but we know the government underestimates everything. If you take double that, I don't think we're wrong. Moreover, the actual costs of the construction of a nuclear power plant and the disposal of low- and high-activity waste are not included in the price of nuclear energy. If that happened, we'd get a different number. 3. Paks II. The problem is also because it is driving Hungary's energy policy into a forced course. It simply removes space and resources from renewable energy. 4. It is also unacceptable because the fate of high-activity waste in the nuclear power plant is unsolved. Russia will not take it back, and the government has only the idea of building a temporary waste dump next to the planned two new reactors, increasing the risk of nuclear energy production several times. 5. Last but not least, Paks II. increases Russian addiction. For this reason, I ask whether the government will wait until the electorate rejects in a referendum the nuclear power plant expansion, which already involves the pointless spending of hundreds of billions, and chooses the only reasonable solution to cancel the Orbán-Putin nuclear pact. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-03-06-168	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-169	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is not polite to triumph with the government or with the government, but today is the day when, after three years of work, the European Commission has contributed to the investment. Some of our colleagues have a lot of merit in this. Your question is not relevant today. It wasn't before, but today it's the least relevant. I would like to answer your questions specifically. Russian dependence does not exist with the nuclear power plant, but would arise in the absence of it. If there is no nuclear power plant, if there is no nuclear power, there is a need to buy more gas. If you have to buy more gas, where can you buy it? We can buy it from the Russians. The nuclear power plant guarantees you don't have to burn gas to get electricity. So less gas is the nuclear power plant and less dependence. In addition, you know very well that today's nuclear power plant is the most environmentally friendly technology. There are 100 nuclear power plants, Congresswoman, in America, 115 nuclear power plants in Western Europe. If it's such a bad thing, it's good for the Americans, it's good for the Western Europeans, but it's not good for us? On the other hand, I would also like to point out that Russia is shipping back waste, as it has done before, in the case of the purchase of fuel. I would add that addiction would only occur if it were dependent on fuel, because we agreed with the European Commission that it is not fuel dependence, but fuel-independent: anyone can deliver fuel to the nuclear power plant. There's no forced track because the nuclear power plant produces 50 percent, and we're importing the other 50 percent right now. The forced track would be if there were no nuclear power plant, because then 100 percent would have to be imported, especially given the fact that in the near future other power plants will have to be shut down, which will generate electricity. So, if you don't build a nuclear power plant, import increases when imports increase, addiction increases. I think by maintaining nuclear power plant capacity, we need our own green energy investments to make the other 50 percent. The two can fit side by side. And funding, Congresswoman, is not only a risk, but, at the moment, Hungary would be able to finance itself and even be able to replace the loan. So there's no financing risk. Russian technology was considered reliable by the European Commission and in line with European standards. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-170	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2017-03-06-171	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. I start by saying that Brussels may have contributed, but the Hungarian people have not. There have been some public opinion polls in this regard, and according to the latest, the majority of Hungary's population rejects Paks II. I think you have your own internal research, and you must know that very well. By the way, maybe that's why the government isn't so happy that LMP is starting a referendum on Paks II. I'm sorry about that. Now, that's a really good joke, you're saying the nuclear power plant is environmentally friendly. Mr. Secretary. For 30 years, I don't know, I've spent my entire life in environmental protection. But I've never heard that before. So, Minister, we're gonna have to look into it a little bit. I think that the nuclear power plant is, in principle, not a technical issue in the first place. It's a moral issue in the first place. It is a moral issue because there is no technology in the world today to safely place high-activity waste. There's no answer to that. How can you leave such technology to the offspring, the children, the grandchildren, for which there is no solution? [[The president's ringing several times.]] Today we know what the expected effects of climate change will be. Over a thousand years is nuclear power, the time limit for nuclear waste to be degraded. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-03-06-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-03-06-173	When I referred to environmental or climate policy aspects, I referred to the fact that the emissions of pollutants are less than those of a coal power plant, my dear Member. In Germany, nuclear power plants may close, but coal power plants are running at full speed. The question is how much this adds to Germany's climate policy goals. Your other comment. I respect your readiness, and I do not deny your moral and moral concerns. At the same time, there is another moral problem that today Hungarian residents pay HUF 36 per kilowattor. In Germany, where there is no nuclear power plant, they pay HUF 90 per kilowattor. It is also a moral issue that the price of electricity should be something that is affordable by the population. Today Paks means that it produces electricity for 11 forints per kilowatt hour, and the Hungarian population and the Hungarian industry can pay for it. These dilemmas need to be resolved. And there was a decision, Congresswoman. When Members of Parliament decide or take a stand on something, on whose behalf do they decide? In the name of the people. The people sent us all here, the Members of Parliament acting on behalf of the people, approved this before an election and after an election. This is what the Hungarian electorate voted on in the election, as many parliamentary parties campaigned with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-174	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Gelencsér, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. We protect the Hungarian people! We protect the Hungarian rent reduction! It's an address. Minister Aradszki András... [[Dr. János Fónagy stands up.]] - I'm sorry - Mr. János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State. [[Defiance.]] I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] It seems, my fellow Members, that my script has slipped very badly today. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It has been a long time since the Orbán government decided to reduce the brutally increased overhead prices by socialist-liberal governments. In 2010, as one of the first measures, we frozen the overhead. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Then, shortly after, we began to reduce them by several steps, because our actions clearly wanted to serve the interests of the Hungarian people. [[Dr. István Józsa: Oil prices.]] We have significantly reduced the fees for gas, electricity, district heating, drinking water, sewerage, waste transport, bottled gas and snorted waste water transport, and we have made the sweeping of the chimney free of charge. Thanks to the measure, a multigenerational family can save up to a quarter million forints a year. A four-person family living in a garden house can save an average of 175 thousand forints, and a retired couple can save some 125 thousand forints a year in a district heating apartment, which is clearly the result of a reduction in the cost. [[16.40]] Thanks to the support of nearly two and a half million Hungarians, we defended the country from the Hungarian left and Brussels bureaucrats when attacks were launched against Hungarian households in the interest of the multinationals. However, according to the information in the press, Brussels was again under attack, and this time it declared a total war against the reduction of the rent. This is a clear and open attack on the Hungarian people. Dear Secretary of State, In my opinion, we are in a very serious danger here, because if Brussels has fulfilled its promise, the policy of reducing the rent is over, and we can forget its results, and even hundreds of thousands of forints of their annual savings may be lost by households, prices will rise again to the sky. Dear Secretary of State, I am asking you whether we will be able to protect the reduction of the rent in Brussels within the framework of the new national policy. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as of the end of 2012, the government made a significant reduction in its overhead costs. This society is pleased, it is twisting the nose of some of our fellow Members. But that's politics, we have to bear it, we have to bear it. What my fellow Member has asked me is how much danger this policy is, which we have consistently been pursuing since 2010: I must say that, yes, the European Union's intentions you have indicated are indeed a real threat. They pose a real threat to the government's intentions, but this is the minor problem, the bigger problem is that they pose a real threat to the tens and hundreds of thousands of people who, for example, have significantly reduced or ceased their electricity or gas account debt in recent years, as it is not just statistics, there are tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of families behind the statistical lines. Two-thirds of the delay and one-third of the number of gas consumers shut off from the service decreased. Anyone who remembers the weather of the last few months knows that this is not a matter of political debate, but a daily livelihood of the people, if this is not done, then his daily misery, and if the government has done so, is his daily rest. Dear fellow Member, The government has been constantly seeking and seeking the opportunity to take further steps to reduce the burden on consumers. However, the so-called "Clean Energy" which you quoted, adopted by the European Commission on 30 November 2016, is intended to further reduce the room for manoeuvre of the Member States by imposing a package for all Europeans. For the time being, it is only about the prices of final consumers of electricity, but it must be seen that this is the beginning of a process, so we must act against this at the very beginning. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-179	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, It is a pity that during my speech all the voters of Hungary, those who live in panels, save hundreds of thousands of people, could not see the reaction of the opposition, and those large families who could save even more money from the reduction of the rent. This is today's Hungarian left - and if I heard correctly, Jobbik also applauded [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "To what?" What were we applauding for? We applauded for eight years!]] - with great remorse. Of course, their logic is perfectly clear and clear: the worse the people and the government, the better for them. So, I think the whole point of their struggle is to reboot the million-billion-dollar cash pump between 2002 and 2010 [[Dr. László Varga: You are not outrageous, you are ridiculous!]] After they represent the energy mites - so they're in a difficult situation now. I think it would be a disaster if the will of Brussels were to prevail again. Let's not let this blackmail go. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dóra Dúró: You're pathetic! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-181	Thank you very much. If I may, fellow Members, I will continue to answer. And I suggest we stop dealing with the opposition. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] In this respect, it is irrelevant, their expression, their manifestations, and rather we should focus on the fact that if the European Union introduces this single regulation and makes it impossible to regulate national energy prices, it means that prices will be adjusted to Western Europe with a significantly higher income than we do, and once again, the multinational monopoly companies that we have been very hard to extract from the country will set the energy prices in Hungary. I am also asking the opposition's support for this, too, so that this cannot be done. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-182	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "bluffs and overpriced investments." Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2017-03-06-183	I'll take it.
u2017-03-06-184	I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, About a week and a half ago Balázs Fürjes, the government commissioner responsible for the project, announced in front of the television that a bluff was the visual design of the Duna Arena in his water vb competition. Let us not forget, he said this about the water world that originally started with a consensus from a budget of 25 billion, and today it is at a hundred billion - with many outrages - this budget. This is a quadruple budget in a country with numerous social, health and educational problems. Another news: also about a week and a half ago, since the government info, we know that instead of HUF 100 billion, there will be HUF 190 billion for Puskás Stadium, thus increasing the investment budget. And since then, we also know that the winning bidder is a consortium linked to Lőrinc Mészáros. Here, too, let's run along briefly, an online portal has collected that the investment budget has changed. In the autumn of 11 Giro-Szász, András talked about a budget of 43.5 billion, it would have been 35 billion for stadiums and other additional investments; in the summer of 14 László Vígh, head of National Sports Centres, put the cost of the investment to 90-100 billion; in 2015 Balázs Fürjes talked about simplified technical content and football only, not other sports, for 100 billion. After that came the sudden announcement of 190 billion, but the question is where it ends. Thus, EUR 618 million is the budget of the Puskás Stadium. Let's say Arsenal Stadium was built out of 461 million, one of the most modern in the world and the same size. The Marseille Vélodrome was almost completely rebuilt out of a quarter of 150 million euros. Only the Baku Olympic Stadium can be compared to this budget, which is obviously east of us. You can see similar investment practices to the east of us, not to the west. The question is: who are responsible for such bluffs, and who are responsible for overpriced investments? Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm waiting for your answer, Minister.
u2017-03-06-186	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-06-187	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! I would like to inform the Member of the following points. I don't really know what to do with the statements in the opinion section, and I can do with the facts. The fact is that before the start of the investment, the public procurement authority imposed a public procurement threshold of HUF 38 billion in the case of the construction of the tide, and it cost HUF 38 billion plus VAT, as far as I know, the swimming pool itself. In addition to the swimming pool, of course, flood protection investments, road construction, public utility management, public land creation have been carried out and will be implemented. I wouldn't count on these costs or the costs associated with the water world. From what I've seen, they kept the price originally planned at the swimming pool. As far as the Puskás Stadium is concerned, I can't even deal with the bullshit in the opinion section there. You didn't necessarily do this here in the past period, but I can't deal with the texts of those making statements about the investment. The only thing I can do is that in the invitation to tender, the estimated price was HUF 180 billion gross, according to the public procurement authority. Compared to this, the cheapest offer came to 190 billion forints. There is a difference between HUF 180 and HUF 190 billion, there is a difference between 5 and 6 percent, with a gross price of 190 billion containing a reserve of 6.5 billion, which is justified for such an investment. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And I don't think the investment programme is thinner, because from the museum there are restaurants and all other facilities. [[16.50]] In order to deal with these situations, the government, learning from recent years' experience in the European Union, has issued a regulation in which it is written in black and white that, up to a 15-percent difference, for example, in the case of EU funds, the funding provider of the tender has the opportunity to raise the initially allocated amount and to use a judicial expert and valuer between 15 and 30 per cent. Since the difference is below 15 per cent, the government has allowed this to take place not for HUF 180, but for HUF 190 billion, and the costs must be kept, this is indeed a government responsibility. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-188	Thank you very much, Minister. I warmly welcome my fellow Members. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varga. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that, and I understand that the government has a regulation on this, but as a sports-loving man, I think that the continuous increase in the budget and the revelations of this kind, which the Commissioner has done, so Balázs Fürjes, has a role in the fact that people have turned away from the Olympics and, by the way, consider sports investments in many cases as a hotbed of corruption. It hurts me, and it's a huge problem. In this context, I have come to you, and I strongly expect you to stop these types of accommodations and cases of corruption, but to stop them without delay, in particular with regard to the recent emergence of the competitiveness ranking of the regions of the European Union, where I would like to refer to my own region: Northern Hungary is 262 of the 263 regions in terms of health care. Here there is an explicit slippage compared to the neighbouring countries, which must be stopped, I think, and not spent on overpriced and bluffing that type of social debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-03-06-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-191	Thank you very much. As a result of my official work, I meet daily with dossiers and cases that show that the cheapest implementation price compared to the investment amount is higher than the available framework. Of course, this has a reading that entrepreneurs are collaborating with each other, there is a cartel, and they would like to ask the investor for more than the available resources. But there is also another reading that, if you think calmly, you can partly accept: for example, there are a number of investments in Hungary that are made from EU funds and that were planned in 2009 and 2010. The tender procedure has been ongoing for several years, where appropriate in several rounds, and has not counted on price increases in the last three to four years to support the tender or provide the source; this is the entrepreneurial argument. There must be a good, clear, clear and transparent system between the two, this government decree, which I spoke about, serves this purpose, and it is natural for us to protect the interests of taxpayers at each investment, to make the best investment for the cheapest amount. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-192	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Or is Viktor Orbán's money with the cashier named Lawrence? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Prime Minister's presence to be answered.
u2017-03-06-193	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2017-03-06-194	Thank you very much. Then Congressman Csaba Gyüre will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In the course of a public data request, it was made public that the company linked to the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros paid Cider Alma Kft. to Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. HUF 3.2 billion in debt to him. According to media reports, Cider Alma Kft. is an interest of the Prime Minister's brother-in-law or of his wife's relatives. What's with the boots on the table? Why does this come before Parliament? Why am I asking you this? Because, if that's what this is about, and that's true, then it's probably all about public money. What did we see? During 2016, groups of companies belonging to the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros won a total of HUF 160 billion in tenders and received public money, with this public money and public money. How much is that? This is almost the same as the one-year higher education budget, it is almost equal to that, so it is shocking that public money to Lőrinc Mészáros in Hungary is almost equal to the amount of Hungarian higher education. We also see that in ten years, Lőrinc Mészáros increased his income by a thousand times, and his companies grew faster than Facebook or Apple. The Prime Minister said earlier that around him, in his environment, there are very talented people, and his friends are so talented. Let's look at Lawrence Ripper. We know, of course, that he is professional in gas installation, but we also learned that in stadium construction, road, railway construction, agriculture, publishing press products, the media, television, it's all been his field for the seven years since Fidesz has been on the government, he's broken into these areas. We are talking about 160 billion forints in cash, of which 3.2 billion is now being paid. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be given by Mr János Lázár, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. We'll wait for him to put the microphone on. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-06-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I confess heroically, I have so much work to do that I find it difficult to follow the rapidly changing press reports of Hungarian public life, I have no idea whether Ciber or Cider Alma Kft. who, what, whose, where he belongs. I can't answer your question, and I don't know Alma Kft. I am not an expert, I am not an owner, I do not know who this is and what this is about, I hope that it is a normal Hungarian business that pays a decent tax. As far as your comment is concerned, I would like to point out with principle that there are obviously businesses in this country, and there are entrepreneurs behind them who have a belief in the world, fortunately. One supports MSZP, the other casts its vote on Jobbik, and supports Jobbik, the third, say, fidesz, may also have LMP businesses - or entrepreneurs, to say the best of all - who think that way, and there are also entrepreneurs with Christian Democratic values. I am not in favour of inviting any enterprise here to Parliament because of its belief in the world. Why do I dare say that? Because the Corruption Research Institute paid by György Soros investigates four groups of companies, 66 companies - this MGTS group, the name you mentioned, is among them, and I entrust you with what the other three are - and in 2014 the 66 companies of the MGTS group won 0.5 percent of all Hungarian public procurement. If this group didn't win 99.5 percent, I don't know what we're talking about. It would have been so good, at least I missed it very much, that when Strabag won a thousand billion HUF public procurement in Hungary, where you were, why you didn't stand up, why you didn't protest. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: How much does he win now?]] Much less, my friend, much less. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Márton Gyöngyösi: I recommend the Weekly Answer two weeks ago!]]
u2017-03-06-198	A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Congressman Csaba Gyüre. Dear Jobbik faction, Make it possible for your fellow Member to give his rejoinder in a minute.
u2017-03-06-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Because of his belief in the world, we shouldn't be civing companies here, he said it wasn't why I brought him here at all. I told you that we were talking about HUF 160 billion in public money, which this group of companies received only in 2016. That is why I brought you here, because it is very serious billions, but it is about taxpayers' money. When you look at where someone, a group of companies, is world-viewing, you don't have to look at how I can help the Prime Minister's family with the money that I received from the public to do some of the tasks. By looking at who we would give these money to, we could have spent 100,000 better places, such as the problem of about a thousand foreign exchange loans that Fidesz hasn't solved for seven years. The problem could have been solved by thousands of foreign exchange-credit families, if that was the case, or in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where the average salary for people is HUF 111,000, this is a monthly salary for 30,000 people. We're talking about a huge amount of public money from somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-201	Thank you very much. Mr President, So we're going to distribute the investment money in the form of social assistance. I cannot support this good-looking point of the programme, because the country also needs development, where there is development and construction, and someone has to do it. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Good job! Very good.]] I think that perhaps we can agree that the Hungarian national policy goal could be that Hungarian businesses carry out investments in Hungary and not be carried out by foreigners. I remember the debates between 2010 and 2014, when there was an entrepreneur at the heart of this, who was supposedly behind you or with you, and I cannot judge that, but we said it then, and we are saying now, just as that business group did not receive half of the Hungarian public procurement, half of the Hungarian road constructions were not received by Hungarian companies, and I think this is still an important objective to build as many Hungarian companies as possible. [[17.00]] There can't be a debate between us. And I would recommend to you, my fellow Member, that you be able to look at all the public procurements, my office is one of the licensors, for each public procurement in the last year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We selected the best offer from five or six applicants. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-202	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of the KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What kind of community development measures and programmes is the government planning? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-06-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The existence of cooperative communities working for the benefit of others is the pillars of a healthy society and at the same time their standards. Therefore, to ensure the functioning of these communities, it is also our government's duty and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction's duty to develop communities, and it is their duty and duty to do so. Why? What kind of communities are we talking about? Civil societies, associations, church organizations that are organisers of important voluntary work do important charitable work, who traditionally, newly, perform tasks that help the state to carry out its tasks. They play a very important role outside the borders, including in cultural, social and other activities. It is no coincidence that in recent years around 60 thousand such civil society associations have supported the work of the community and have doubled these subsidies recently. One form of this aid is also the tax offer. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State how much the EU's application of the Ministry of Human Resources can help this process in order to promote volunteering and charitable work, and what further community development measures, programmes or proposals the government plans to improve the conditions of civil and ecclesiastical organisations. I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-204	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-205	Thank you very much for your speech and your question, Congresswoman. Mr President, Dear House, Our image of man, our image of society, is made up of communities. We believe that everyone's identity is also determined by the fact that they belong to different communities, and we believe that Hungary will be stronger when it has as many and stronger communities as possible. That is why we have spent a lot of budget resources and spent a lot of European Union resources to strengthen the youth community, the athletic community, the cultural community, the church community, all kinds of communities, and not only individually, but also to strengthen their community membership, because we believe that the union of the nation will also be stronger if its individual communities are strong. This is why it was important to support civil and ecclesiastical organisations, as in these communities you can find common experiences, friends, common values can be strengthened, and through sport, we also have an important goal of fighting knowledge or health. One of the most important ones, which has already been completed, is our application for the protection net for families. Here 154 communities, family communities and organizations received 30-40 million forints in support, which was 6.2 billion forints in total. We distributed HUF 1 billion to 41 applicants before that in our youth programme. Here, these communities could receive 20-25 million forints of funding for several years. Our call for support for small youth communities, which is currently current, can be submitted as of today, will spend 2.1 billion forints on the development of small youth communities. The strengthening of social cohesion by expanding the community-building activities of churches and civil society organisations is a very long but valuable project, which will amount to HUF 8 billion within weeks - we hope that the applications will be submitted - providing up to HUF 50 million in support to church communities and civil communities in the long term. The National Cooperation Fund and 1 percent of personal income tax are also important sources, which I will return to in a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-207	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your positive response. I agree with your diagnosis, I started with this, Hungary will be stronger if its communities are stronger. I would like to remind you that we know from history and other sources that when the communist takeover took place, one of the first activities of the dictatorship was to make these communities, which are the pillars of society, impossible to function. That is why it is a joy that, in this new era, in which we are lucky to live, the government also considers it important to support communities, its financial support. I would like to point out that it is also an opportunity to ensure the functioning of many organisations, civil and ecclesiastical organisations, this is also important, because although they are carrying out mostly voluntary work, the operation of organisations requires professional work, and this is also provided with adequate resources. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] These are the applications. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-208	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, as we have already heard, will be followed by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-03-06-209	Thank you very much. As the Member mentioned, not only professional but also operational applications are very important. Therefore, the NEA can apply for both, 15 638 in 2016 and 16 522 in this year. Last year we distributed HUF 3 billion 872 million, this amount is much higher this year, HUF 4 billion 172 million. [[István Szávay: Add 20 percent of the applicants!]] In addition, I believe that proposals for the development of young people in the community are important, which total HUF 27 billion. The program "The Chance, Home" has recently been launched to help young people living in the countryside or moving to the countryside start their lives. We hope that this will strengthen the strength of the countryside. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] The woman representing volunteering was also targeted. Here we also have a proposal for local community organisation, for the promotion of voluntary activities, even for young people aged 14-35 years. Here, too, the winners have been selected from among a thousand applicant organisations. We also have 14 billion HUF for this program, which is one of its sub-programmes. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. Why does the government favour the rich? It's an address. Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or waits for the Minister to be present in Parliament by saying the answer.
u2017-03-06-211	And I respectfully answer that I accept.
u2017-03-06-212	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Whatever we look at in Hungary's support policy, it seems in everything that Fidesz only benefits the upper tens of thousands, that the agricultural subsidies go to billionaires, that the people who consume a lot of money receive support, that the little ones have no substantial support, that the one-key tax is in favour of the big ones, and now I have started to deal with transport policy after the smog in recent years. It can be concluded that there is an ageing motor vehicle park in Hungary, with an average age of 13 years, and in the vast majority of the last ten years, diesel vehicles have become increasingly involved, and I was pleased to hear that the government announced that it would support the expansion of electric cars. However, after that, I was saddened to experience that this is in the interest of the Buda millionaires again, because virtually those who have 9-10 million forints to buy such a car receive 2 million subsidies, while the masses, the rural population who own the old car park, they have no access and no access to these vehicles. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether it has not occurred to you that, after such a measure, if you are already providing aid of a billion-dollar scale, let us say that the vehicles of Community transport should first be replaced. After that, shouldn't it be done to lead the government and act in government vehicles? To move from police cars to government, state-secretary cars to such vehicles and not pollution. It should not be done in order to prevent EU subsidies from being used to date for the most polluting diesel technologies, since today there are a large number of electric cars in small commercial vehicles. [[17.10]] My respectful question is whether it is worth changing this support system, broadening it and taking the lead of public use vehicles to the government, and then, if necessary, by raising excise duty to support small business operators and small people in a multi-band multi-key support system that takes into account per capita income, based on the need... - so that this fleet can become young and modern. I would therefore like to ask with respect whether there is such an idea or a plan. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-215	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A rare moment: we agree perfectly on the goals. To help in numbers: Hungary ran some 3.3 million cars in 2016 and, to my knowledge, the share of diesels has increased slightly in recent years, which is not good; it is not good. The government's clear intention was not only now, but also decades ago, to eliminate the mass of vehicles that are highly polluting in one of the largest transport sectors, namely the largest energy consumption. It is no coincidence that, during the first Orbán government's governance and since 2000, the electrification of the railway, the road fleet, which you kindly referred to, is a fundamental programme. In Budapest there was a 16-18-20-year-old car park, a significant part of which has been replaced by the capital city in the last two or three years. The seven Volan companies - previously 23 - have their bus fleet changed at a very fast pace. We hope that a reorganizing domestic automotive industry will also help. As far as cars are concerned, I'm the biggest believer in public transport. I guess you don't have to convince each other, me or us. At the same time, I am convinced that by banning and increasing prices, it is not really possible to steer people in the right direction, but also to allow them, who still choose individual transport, to have access to better, environmentally friendly individual means of transport, as you have said. Here, however, reality sets a limit, which, if I may, will be outlined in the next minute.
u2017-03-06-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict.
u2017-03-06-217	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, you started by saying that the government's intentions are similar. I am curious about the nature of this intention, because at the moment, when entrepreneurs buy diesel commercial vehicles, they do so because they can claim their VAT back on the passenger car. If you take a diesel-fueled vehicle, your VAT can be written off. So there is a passive aid from the State to spread diesels. Why can't this be rewritten to modern technology if there's such an intention? Let's think together. I recommend to the Secretary of State that I have tabled a proposal for a parliamentary decision with a rather provocative intention to draw attention to the fact that there are completely different technologies. In Norway, the share of electric cars is already 30 percent, which means that government measures can be taken to achieve this. I would like Fidesz-KDNP to take steps during its government period that will help the fleet not only to grow young, to become more modern, but also to give access to these subsidies to those who do not have millions to put in their own strength. More support for small and small businesses - that is what I ask with respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-06-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2017-03-06-219	Thank you very much. Congressman, you know that Norway is currently one of the richest countries in the world from oil, with virtually 94 percent electricity from aquatic energy with the cheapest electricity. I said that within the limits of reality, I think we agree. As far as the aid is concerned, it is obvious that, when support for businesses comes forward and we try to get businesses to a commercial vehicle, then perhaps the aspects you have mentioned will have to go back in the past. By the way, this is what the Jedlik Ános plan is intended to serve, which the government has agreed to and we hope to implement quickly. Within the limits of reality, we will be putting the number of electric vehicles to 20-25 thousand by 2020, if I remember correctly. Thank you.
u2017-03-06-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It's 5:15 p.m., and we're done with Question Time. We are now discussing our activities. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/13560 on the T/13560 for the Co-operation for the Heated Homes Fund. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, his representative, for a five-minute period. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-221	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the seventh time now, we are presenting to Parliament our proposal to establish a social finance fund, which is what it aims to do. It has been submitted six times since 2012. Unfortunately, it has not been accepted once by the majority of Parliament's governors, although it is still as current and unfortunately equally justified today. The purpose of this social fund would be to help people who are seriously affected by winter heating, and even an unsolvable task. Over the past year, we are faced with reports of cold deaths, of fellow humans who freeze in their own unheated homes because they cannot heat the property. I think it is not a party policy, but a question of humanity to do something about it. I don't want to go into an unworthy number war now, how many people died for such a reason, how many people got cold in their own homes, but I'm sure there are a lot of people every year. Because if a man dies because of that reason, that could be a lot. Of course, statistics contradict, they talk about a lot of things. There are years when the National Police Headquarters talks about 32 people, while the Central Statistical Office talks about 142 people. Or last year, when they were talking about 30 people, and the Statistical Office was talking about 168. I am not detailing who has the right to say in Hungary today whether or not someone died of coldness, and I would not talk about the latency now, since everyone who understands it says that there is usually a lot of latency. If an elderly man lies in his unheated apartment for two weeks and gets pneumonia, and then, when he's hospitalized there, he dies of pneumonia, they won't call it freezing death and cold, but if he could have heated his home, he obviously - we agree - wouldn't have died under these circumstances. Obviously, we also agree that as a representative of the Hungarian Parliament, we must do everything we can to help these people. I'm consciously saying that we have to do everything we can, and I'm not saying that we have to do something. Because there is something the government is doing, and I have to say that there are steps that we can agree with, and we understand the willingness to help. For example, the social firewood programme, which, despite all its shortcomings and inadequacy, is helping some people. Obviously, some people are helped by this, but it doesn't provide a complete solution, because if it were a complete solution, then obviously there wouldn't be such problems anymore. In addition, a lot of people live in places where they don't fire firewood, many people in the city have trouble paying the heating bill. It is still 106 thousand families where the service is turned off, and still almost half of those involved in the service are struggling with backlogs. So there's still a lot of work to be done here. But of course we are talking not only about those who unfortunately die because of it, but also about families, often families with multiple children, who have to freeze through the winter. Families who pull together in a room because they can still heat that one room. Families who pick up trash so they can fire something. Families where children become asthmatic and allergic to wet walls, moldy mushrooms, families where they wash their children's clothes in vain will always be musty, and partners will always pull away from them because they cannot dry these clothes in wet homes. These people need help. We're talking about people who said in a small village in Borsodi that they have candlelight dinner every night, if, of course, there's money for candles, and there's money for dinner, because it happens all the time. [[17.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, For the seventh time, we ask you to be humane, to see the poor hear your complaint to you, to press this button. Now we ask you to include this law in a series of articles. We do not now have to vote on whether to accept it, just to let it come to this House. We know it's not a perfect solution, we know there may be some flaws in it, but now we have the opportunity to talk about it, now we have the opportunity to submit an amendment to it. We will be open to everything, but once again, think about those poor families and those people who die of coldness, and I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute and two-minute time frame, as well as the first independent Member to speak. I would like to ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor first from the Jobbik Group to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-223	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, this debate is not about deciding on the motion before us, but about whether it is at all suitable for negotiation and debate in this House. I certainly do, because in Hungary's current situation, when housing poverty is on a brutal scale, we need to discuss and debate this issue from as many perspectives as possible, in the best possible light. I also regret the fact that it is broadly outlined which of the opposition parties is a policy-makers dealing with this area. In general, these people appear in the field, they attend conferences, they surround various housing and home creation issues, while the representatives of the governing parties stay away from these roundtable discussions. This has happened in the same way as in the case of the currency-credited round table, where neither the governing parties nor the representatives of the government have paid their respects, and so it is very difficult to get the impressions of this problem with the smell of life. So, unfortunately, I have the impression that most of the representatives of the governing parties simply do not have the necessary information about the amazing scale of housing poverty in Hungary. We attend evictions neither as a hobby nor as a sport, when we try to get some kind of agreement between the executioner and the victim there, so that they do not take people's homes acquired over decades, built over generations, but at the same time we see that the members of the governing parties are simply not touched by this whole issue and are quite simply insensitive to it. We will now have, of course, the interesting professional debate on auctioning on the next agenda, but if, for example, three years ago, the exact same proposal that Jobbik had already submitted would have been voted in, think about how many thousands of Hungarian families could have been spared. Your heartlessness, pragmatism and calculation have led us here, which is why it is their dog's duty to at least have a discussion with name and face for any similar proposal. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the MSZP, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament is coming. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow government politicians! I ask you, with all due respect, not to issue that certificate, not to put that stamp on your forehead, that you are completely insensitive socially. If you're a tiny, if you have a capillary social sensitivity, then this proposal will be included in a series of subjects. Simply because he has been hated and rejected six times, and for the seventh time, the opposition side of Parliament is experimenting in order to see the shock that has been brought to life during the Orbán regime, that a village of people lost their lives as a result of the immediate circumstances of frost death, and not to mention the hidden situations that, as a consequence, have already been described as death not related to frost death, then you do have to do so. The call to life for the social, so to speak, financial fund that my fellow Member Luke spoke about is of vital importance. You may not see, you may not know the problems of the countryside, poverty, extreme poverty and poverty. But believe me, opposition politicians, who really do roam the countryside, experience what that means. Believe us and do all this so that people do not lose their lives, or as a result of frost death. There's funding. In the case of state-owned companies, which make large and large profits, the funds for taxed results provide an opportunity to create all of this, which is included in the motion. Once again, if you have a capillary social sensibility, you will do so by taking this bill into consideration. I ask you with all due respect. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP agrees with the aim of the proposal for a decision, and we believe that we also need a social fund for those in need who have a problem in covering the costs of the rent and who are not even covered by the reduction because they are heated with wood and briquettes. The LMP has also put forward several proposals on housing and energy poverty. Last time, a proposal was voted out by government parties that would have applied both social and environmental aspects. We think that we need to find a solution to energy poverty, which also promotes environmentally friendly residential heating. It is not possible to ignore the fact that one of Hungary's most serious environmental health problems is air pollution caused by residential combustion. According to data from the European Environment Agency, more than 14,000 people die prematurely in Hungary every year as a result of air pollution. On average, our children's life chances can be reduced by 6-18 months by contaminated air, which can be associated with outdated residential heating equipment, firing techniques and low-quality fuel. This is why we are proposing, on the one hand, to expand the social firewood programme, increase its time and framework, as well as further measures, strict standards on the quality of firewood, the creation of a public fund for the replacement, modernisation of combustion plants, widespread public education programmes, the launch of a complex residential building energy programme. The proposal, the need for measures to combat energy poverty, is therefore agreed and supported, but it lacks a complex approach. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-03-06-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Németh Szilárd is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We could also say that there is no limit to brazenness, as they are presenting a presentation entitled "Constitution for heated homes" which, when they had the opportunity to govern this country, have raised gas prices three times, electricity prices double, district heat prices skyrocketed, and in 2010, during the change of government, even the small gas price support that was provided to a few thousand people in Hungary was abolished. I think that this proposal is entirely uncredited, lying and cynical, according to the way the socialists normally behave. I'm surprised that the other two opposition parties quickly stood behind this political malpractice they're trying to create here with this proposal. It is absolutely amazing to hear the sentence - the LMP representative has now run out - what he said that the reduction in the rent has not reached the people who are firing wood. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since 2011, the Government of Hungary has, through the Ministry of the Interior, a multibillion-dollar programme of cooperation between local governments in the social tree programme. This year it reached the 3 billion HUF limit, and more than 2,500 municipalities participate in this program, and anyone who wants can also get access to social firewood. Some data should be allowed as to how, say, debts have changed during the period of the reduction from 1 January 2013. Electricity debts: 1 million 824,000 people owed at the end of 2012, which fell to 980 thousand, so it fell by half. [[17 .30]] I have the same data: 812 thousand gas debts, and 403 thousand now. I think that we are on the right track, that we should continue to reduce the costs. As long as there's a Fidesz government, there's gonna be a down payment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Zoltán Lukács, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Congressman, two minutes.
u2017-03-06-231	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank my fellow opposition Members for their understanding that they understand what we are talking about, understand the people's voice, understand that people are dying in their cold homes, and understand that poor families need help. Only the representative of the Fidesz who spoke did not understand, and he says that if 900,000 people suffer a disadvantage [[István Szilárd Németh: Don't lie!]] then it doesn't matter, it's halved. That's not true either, of course, it's also a lie, but if, let's say, 900,000 people have problems, then 900,000 people just have to be helped. [[István Szilárd Németh: We were in the resivita together, weren't we? How could it not be true?]] Look, this social fund would be about getting some kind of help for those who need it. I, if you will listen to my five-minute comment, I have been avoiding political speeches on purpose, precisely because we would like this to be a political discourse, not a political discourse of this kind, but a real help. There is one thing that every Hungarian Member of Parliament must decide tomorrow at the vote. They all have children, children, grandchildren. Then the next time they are put to bed in the obviously well - heated room and wish them good night, will they remember to give a helping hand to their far worse - off companions, or should they think that they have run over the hands that extend to help? Will they be able to account for their conscience, or will they eventually be ashamed of their own children and grandchildren? I'm asking you to be humane. If a man is poor, help him too [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and this social fund will be voted tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. It is now up to LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. a joint debate on a proposal to amend law. The submission submitted by our fellow Members with Mr Péter Harrach, Mr Imre Vejkey and Mr Miklós Soltész KDNP T/14298. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. I would like to inform you that, according to the derogation from the adopted house rule, the opening speech and the closing speech will take a total of 20 minutes, 5 minutes for the government representative's statement, 6 minutes for the legislative committee's speech, 3 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion, 10 minutes for the group's speeches, and a total of 3 minutes for the opposition of the independent Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Soltész, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda; as I have said, expoze and closing in 20 minutes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Freaks, First of all, I would like to thank all those who supported this series of articles this early this afternoon, because there was a need for four fifths of support; so there were three Members who did not want to support this discussion, Zoltán Készt is one of them. But perhaps that is not the important thing, but more important is that indeed, the eviction moratorium expired from 1 March. I think that those who are here in this room obviously believe that this should have been maintained on one side, but on the other hand, the message to society is that all those who pay their bills fairly pay their debts to banks or others in a given case would be a very bad message if the eviction moratorium always went further every year than the 1st of March. Therefore, further help must be given to all about 140,000 families who are in trouble now, whose homes, apartments, homes, and homes may eventually be auctioned off. The current case law allows 70 percent of the value to be the starting price and take the home, the apartment, for that. In this respect, both the first and the second following, I stress, in the case of electronic auctions, the amendment suggests that only 100 percent of the value of the auction can be put out at all, and that no one's home can be taken above its head. And this is true, even if the first or second auction fails, and then the home is continuously announced, even until a person applies, the price must be kept at 100 per cent for a year. After all this, after a year after that, in our proposal, we made a maximum of 80 percent after one year after the continuous auction, compared to the value of the auction, for another attempt. We suggested 80 percent, but here the Legislative Committee has already received an amendment to 90 percent. It is perfectly natural that we will support this, and obviously if the factions vote, this is how the law will pass. In addition, there is another important message to this legislation: a debtor and creditor - whether creditors - can agree on a lower starting price or a selling price, but obviously the message must be - and not only the message, but also the case law - that eviction cannot be followed by an additional residual debt to all those who suffer to such an extent the really difficult turn of life: families, children, anyone who lived in that home. Once again, this proposal was supported by a clarification amendment proposal in the Legislative Committee, and if this clarification amendment, which is written like this, the amount on which a valid bid can be made, the remaining claim after the allocation of the auction price from this auction will be terminated, and the enforcement procedure will be completed; this will be supported, as this will further clarify and improve the situation of all those in difficulty. There's too much law that doesn't lay down. We haven't touched it yet. It is important to know that the debtor has a single residential property and has been living there for 6 months in the period prior to enforcement. Dear Parliament, However, we also need to talk about the debate on the previous item, that we have come this far for some reason. That's the problem, this problem has caused the trouble of hundreds of thousands of people between 2002 and 2010. And it has to be said here that the socialists, together with the free democrats, have made huge mistakes, economic bad decisions, made huge mistakes, and, as a result, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people are in very difficult situations. One of them was foreign currency lending, people were forced into it, nearly two million loan contracts were concluded. They destroyed the home creation that worked until 2002, it worked well, and so people - young and older alike - got only borrowing. [[17.40]] And third, simply to the fees - no matter how incomprehensible to me the previous thought of socialist politicians - they assisted in all areas, whether in the area of gas, electricity, or even in the area of the water channel, to leap to the skies, and did nothing to help all those in trouble to help their lives. All this bad process had to be prevented and reversed by Fidesz-KDNP after 2010, and this bad process could be changed in two areas. One: obviously in the area of lending and in the context of the home protection action plan, we have taken many, many steps, involving 1.3 million people. The other area is: it is not a question of finding the steps that ultimately led to the reduction of the rent and the restarting of home creation, so that the same process that took place between 2002 and 2010 does not start. It is worth recalling very briefly the action plan we have taken together over the last few years, to which the opposition has, by the way, mostly not joined or criticized, but perhaps today is in favour of our current proposal. The complete conversion of foreign currency lending, which resulted in a partly foreign exchange barrier, end-payment, forintisation and then almost complete termination of foreign currency lending. It is important to set up the National Asset Manager, and as far as left-wing representatives think, whether it is the Old Town Park or family bankruptcy, it has helped hundreds of people, even dozens of families. All of this meant that about HUF 734 billion remained with people or returned to people, they didn't have to pay that much, and hundreds of thousands, I could say, gave nearly one million families the opportunity to stay in their homes. However, we also took the steps that meant a continuous extension of the eviction moratorium in the first two years, which was necessary because it was necessary, both until foreign exchange lending was launched and until the National Asset Manager was set up, to allow the families to breathe, so that they would not immediately fall into such a difficult life situation, which they were involved in, I would stress once again: in the previous period. However, we also introduced the forced sales quota, and the banks were not happy about it, nor were others pleased, but I think that the families that could largely keep their homes as a result must have been important. However, it is also worth recalling that the auctions, which were open until then and often tried to deter well-meaning customers by using mafia methods, thus knocking down the price, were made electronic, so that at least this part could not be used by those who just wanted to kick people, families who were in trouble and wanted to get the property at the lowest possible price. In addition, the introduction of the executive faculty, its transformation, the transformation of the whole implementation system has been a great help to families. It has just been said on the previous agenda that the reduction of the rent did not count. It does matter, indeed, the huge step, honourable socialist and left-wing representatives, which has resulted in the reduction of electricity, gas and other services, such as the non-payers of the water channel. This is a huge step, as it has often caused them to lose their apartments, and they have often lost their homes in a larger proportion than their bank debt. However, the creation of homes also has huge results, and I must tell you what you may have been paying attention to, when the Prime Minister said his speech here in Parliament a few weeks ago, where all these steps led, of course, in a responsible way, saying that yes, it would be good to take more steps so that families are in an even better position. But still, getting those steps, the results, I think it's unwise, and it's certainly not a good policy, what you do a lot of times. But I will try to repeat it again: in 2010 24.5 percent of Hungarian families were threatened that they could not pay their loans or other debts in relation to the apartment; by 2015 this figure was reduced to 19 percent. The same is true in 2010: 74 percent of Hungarian families suffered from having no cover for unexpected expenses; this number decreased to 50 percent by 2015. Similarly, the lack of meat consumption every two days in 2010 marked 29 percent of families, today 19 percent. The lack of adequate heating of the apartment, and this may be a little linked to the previous debate, was 12 percent in 2010 and 9 percent in 2015. All the facts and facts we say are still too much, so we continue to reduce the costs, but the number is more than any other indication that the financial problems of families and people who were hit by at least four of the above-mentioned ones were 23.5 percent in 2010, and now 16.2 percent. I think that all these decisions that we have made, all the current bill that we have tabled, all the steps we have taken so far, have served to help, where possible, at least to save people's lives. This bill is now helping 140,000 families, and I'm asking the factions to cooperate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-06-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member that he has a time frame of 7 minutes and 30 seconds left for the closing session, which he will be able to use. I am now asking Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want to speak. We will now hear the position of the Legislative Committee. As a minority opinion will not be delivered, our fellow rapporteur, Mr Vas Imre, representing the Legislative Committee, has a six-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At today's meeting, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule. T/14298 amending Act No. It submitted a legislative proposal and a summary report to that effect. The Committee discussed the following amendments. On the one hand, he discussed a technical amendment which was tabled by the chairman of the committee on the spot, which is Article 7. The amendment Act would be supplemented by a 6 so that this amendment could be properly distinguished from the other amendments in the original Act. Furthermore, a letter was proposed by the President to leave, which was approved by the Committee. The amendment tabled by MEPs was not supported by the Committee. On the other hand, he supported the amendment tabled by my fellow Members, István Németh Szilárd and István Hollik, tabled under No 6, which aims to end the remaining claim following the allocation of the auction price from this auction, if agreed, and the enforcement procedure is terminated. This amendment was therefore supported by the Committee. He also supported my fellow Members' amendment that, after an ongoing one-year auction, it would be possible to sell the property at a minimum of 80 per cent, so that is the minimum purchase price during the implementation procedure. There was a constructive debate at the committee meeting, and it really seemed that all the factions were trying to improve the bill. This compromise has been reached, very rarely seen, with great agreement, so I ask you to vote in favour of both the amendment and the bill when it is adopted. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.50]]
u2017-03-06-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have a timeframe of 10-10 minutes, and the independent Members have a timeframe of 3 minutes. I will first address the speakers who have been announced, Mr Vas Imre of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Between 2002 and 2010, due to continued austerity and virtually non-existent housing policies, the population tried to manage and create a home from loans. This led to a 140-fold increase in the amount of foreign currency loans. This is one of the most serious inheritances of socialist governments, which we had to deal with after 2010. After 2010, hundreds of thousands of people were helped to pay foreign exchange-based housing loans: the launch of the home protection action plan, the government introduced the exchange barrier, the National Asset Manager stood up, foreign exchange loans were forinted, there is a fair banking system now, interest rates and repayments were significantly reduced, and family bankruptcy protection was established in Hungary. However, it is undoubtedly a fact that despite all government efforts, there are unfortunate situations and fates where enforcement is inevitable as a result of insolvency. The purpose of the bill before us is the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. Amendment of the rules of sale provided for in the Act to ensure that the enforcement procedure ensures that the properties seized are sold at the highest possible price - here we are talking only about the consumer contract - and that the outstanding claims are repaid as much as possible. Otherwise, it is in the common interest of the debtor and the creditor. On the basis of the amendment, this is an essential element of the KDNP proposal, in the enforcement procedure for the recovery of claims based on a contract with the consumer, in the case of the auctioning of residential property, the valid purchase offer must at least reach the value of the property. The applicant for enforcement may take over the property only for an amount corresponding to the value of the property or, after one year of continuous auction, the property may be sold at a lower price. At the same time, the amendment provides for an opportunity to be sold in the enforcement procedure for the recovery of a claim based on a contract with a consumer at a value lower than the value. In this case, each party, i.e. the debtor and the enforcement seeker, and in the case of more than one enforcement seeker, shall agree to the amount of the determined value and request that the lowest valid bid price for the auction be set at a fixed value. As I mentioned earlier, if the Parliament accepts it, in this case the debtor is exempt from any further claims. Where there is one, of course, the Hungarian National Bank will also have to make sure that this is not a general one, but if we accept the amendment of our fellow Members, Szilárd Németh and István Hollik, then I think this will not be a problem. The provisions concerned by the amendment shall also apply in the implementing procedures in place on the date of entry into force in which the enforcement procedure for the recovery of a claim based on a contract with the consumer has not yet been established, and in the implementing procedures in which a notice of sale of residential immovable property or a continuous auction notice has already been published. In the event that no valid bid has been received at the auction before the entry into force of the provisions affected by the amendment, the executioner shall amend the notice accordingly and only at this higher price may a valid tender be made thereafter. In agreement with the KDNP, we want to ensure that people in bad financial situations are not harmed, and that they cannot profit from getting into trouble. The government's decision is clear: instead of forcing foreign currency loans, the family home-building discount, the real opportunity for families to get housing. That's what we're trying to do, and if you've already got your home, the fewer people you need to lose it. This is the purpose of the bill. Thank you for listening. Please support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Sándor Burány of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. We'll wait for him to put the microphone on. Yeah, it's okay. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I could start at the end, because at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, we tried to change the proposed bill in a surprisingly constructive mood in terms of recent parliamentary habits in order to really remedy or remedy the problem to a greater extent than the authors intended. I thought that Mr Secretary of State would thank the authors of the amendments, either to Szilárd Németh or to me, to one of the Socialist Members who noted this motion, because we tabled proposals that you spoke about at your press conference last week and spoke before this morning in this House, but the bill did not contain this, to be exact: the element of your communication was not included in the original bill that, in case of agreement, the authentic will be exempt from further demands. This is what Mr Secretary of State spoke about in front of the national press last week, and before the agenda today, in his reply to Congressman Harrach, but this idea was not originally included in the bill. This deficiency was corrected at the committee meeting. Here, two different concepts were developed. Our fellow Members, Fidesz, have tabled an amendment which, in accordance with the Secretary of State's communication, does indeed state that, if the parties, the creditor and the loaned are in agreement, it is possible to go below the estimated price at the auction, but in this case the debtor is exempted from the additional obligations. This was supported by the Socialist and Fidesz and KDNP representatives at the committee meeting. However, I am very sorry that the amendment of the MSZP was not supported by members of the majority of the government, because we went further than that. We proposed in the amendment that, even in the absence of agreement, if the auction was successful, the debtor should be exempted from further obligations. By the way, it was educational, as Members at the committee meeting really tried to list life situations in a constructive atmosphere, in which case the bill would help, what it would need to be refined, and what it would really be possible to promote and solve as a problem with the adoption of amendments. One of these dilemmas at the committee meeting was whether, if the amendment received support - as I said earlier, we supported it at the committee meeting - to exempt the debtor from any additional obligations in the event of agreement, whether it would make the creditor, the banks, interested in agreeing to this agreement, since the bank would like to get its money back, possibly in a greater proportion, from the creditor, or to exempt it from the amount received at the auction, which is in his accounts. [[18.00]] In the confidence that, in the event of an agreement, he cannot act as a creditor with any further need, this raises doubts as to whether the willingness of the banks to agree will be strong or not. That's for life to decide. In any event, if amendments to the MSZP were accepted, this problem would not be raised, since we said that, regardless of the intention to agree or the fact, after the successful auction, the authentic debtor should be exempt from the obligation to make further debts. There is still time to think about it, fellow Members, and I suggest that you support our motion in the course of tomorrow. The MSZP will also support this bill and the amendment in the votes, since we believe that if, in part of the 140,000 people's problems, who are already in a hopeless situation, Parliament can help us, it is indeed our duty as Members to do so. But let's stop here for a second. This bill does indeed help and only those families who are already in a hopeless situation. People who can't pay their loans. For those of you whose property, that apartment, that house you're hoping for your home, it's going to be auctioned. In their case, we're already at this stage. And while we are in favour of solving or mitigating this problem to the extent possible for these 140,000 families who are in such a desperate situation, it is important to ask why, if the bailout policy was so successful, there are still 140,000 families in this hopeless situation. The committee meeting was constructive, and here Parliament's speeches are not so typical. I'm trying to restrain myself, so I'm just going to say a few words about your history to the foreign exchange credit problem, as you have mentioned. 1. It is a fact that the currency loan exercise was introduced by the first Orbán government at the time of Mihály Varga's ministry and at the time of President Zsigmond Járai, former Fidesz minister. This is what created the construction that you are now attacking.2. It is not true that the state-supported housing loans have been abolished. We limited the ceiling of 15 million forints, precisely because we thought that the state had no business helping people who are in a good financial situation anyway. It is not intended for the State to grant preferential loans to those who took up their third-fourth apartment, and without a neck, without a ceiling, preferential public loans could be used for the purchase of very large and even third-fourth real estate. We did not cancel it, but we limited this ceiling in HUF 15 million, which would be enough to buy a two-bedroom panel apartment even in Budapest for an average family today, and in other parts of the country it would be enough to buy even bigger apartments or houses without further adoration. We thought, contrary to your philosophy, that it was necessary to help those in need first; you liked to support those in the best position at the time, and your current policy is taking this further, even more so, as you did during the first Orbán government. The next thing I'd like to mention is that Fidesz and KDNP actually put the Feds in a very bad position twice. For the first time in 2010, when stupid statements and later stupid economic policies were used to knock down the forint. If they hadn't done this, the foreign exchange credit problem wouldn't exist and loans could be paid. That's right. It was the exchange rate risk that was the problem, and the loss of exchange rates was the problem, ladies and gentlemen, whatever they say. If it didn't exist, these would have been payable loans for all those who still had their jobs. The second case, when you failed the authentic ones, was when foreign exchange loans were converted into forints at the market rate, in contrast to their earlier promises. By the way, the Hungarian National Bank has generated hundreds of billions of HUF in profits, which we can see since then they have wasted money on castles, art purchases and other things. In both cases, we made our position clear at the time, and how it indicates that these were real problems, it shows that you have forinted foreign exchange loans at market prices, thus prolonging the problem for a very large number of families. As a result, it is now necessary to help Parliament with a bill that is already in a hopeless position to auction their property. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-03-06-241	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think practically everything has been said about the proposal. Perhaps I would like to present some questions or figures of principle. What is this proposal about? It's obviously about preventing the looting of impenetrable mortgage lenders. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Hasn't it been important for three years?]] So they're in a difficult situation. I'm gonna tell my screaming colleague something right now, okay? Wait for it. It's basically the hardest thing to do. And speaking of which, let me mention what's happened in the past. 90 percent of foreign exchange credentials have been put in a position, since today there are only around 150 thousand people who are facing problems. And where did we start? A million and a half. But what happened when my fellow Member raised this question. The possibility of final repayment, exchange rate barrier, forinting, family bankruptcy, asset manager. It all happened. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame, shame!]] And if you're wondering what KDNP has done in this case, so in the law on court enforcement, I'll also tell you if you don't remember. In 2013, we amended this law, resulting in the following. Renewal of the judicial enforcement system; extension of the obligation to make declarations of assets to court executioners; abolition of irregular inks is very important because there has been a lot of abuse in this area; extension of the scope of the use of the vehicle seized during enforcement; and finally, following the adoption of the law, a ministerial decree reduced the recovery commission of the enforcers and the chargeable cost margin. Your question about what's happened in the last few years is what I can answer. It's not easy to list. A lot has happened. But let's look at the principles that need to be taken into account here. No one is arguing that the loan should be repaid. Of course you do. However, it seems to be contrary to the fundamental truth that when someone is in an impossible situation, even in relation to foreign exchange rate changes, it must be helped. And you don't just have to help yourself, you have to help the state and the credit institution. So we have to bear the burden together. That's what we're proposing now. If you allow us some data, because it's important to be aware of it. Since the implementation procedure has been going on for many years, it may not be surprising that there are 156 thousand debtors against whom implementation is already under way. And from this, I say that there are few, but in itself there are a lot of evictions from last year, which was 3474. We know that 70 percent of these troubled debtors are in communities. And let me have another interesting piece of data. For 55 percent of the auctions, i.e. the majority of successful auctions, the value of the winning bid remained below the value. [[18.10]] And here is the significance of this amendment, which has just been tabled by our colleagues, because if an agreement is reached, then there is a possibility that the additional debt will be released. And perhaps the answer - if you do not go out yet, Congressman Burány - is whether the bank will have an interest in this case. I believe that shaking off bad loans will force banks to conclude this agreement after all. Of course, after a while, we will see what will be the result. But I think that the banks will be interested in concluding the agreement. This is what I thought was important to say, but it has not yet been said, but there are significant aspects of this draft law, and I am also pleased that this proposal has received virtually full support here in front of Parliament, at the committee meeting, because everyone has recognised that we can really help some of the families that are in the difficult situation here. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-242	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-243	Mr President, Dear House, Just to be clear about my yelling and my more yelling, it's that I think you should be ashamed of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Shame on you, gentlemen. Shame on you because it's 2014. CHAPTER IV On the 9th of October, a proposal came before Parliament with the following title: a proposal to amend certain laws on financial matters needed to settle the situation of persons affected by the credit crisis, which would essentially have fixed the right to walk away, not only in a limited way, but also in the event that, if we were in the absence of an agreement but still after an auction, anyone could have been relieved of the additional debt. We submitted this proposal three years ago. You have thrown this proposal aside, you have not supported it, you have not found it suitable for debate or debate. And now, three years later, they put it down to us, otherwise sweaty, moaning, thanks to a TAB dispute, including the right to walk away, basically the same thing. And you were very right to say that last year alone, 3400 evictions were due to you. For you, because three years ago, almost three years ago, the same proposal was not supported. We will support this because it would be very strange for us to go against our former self. But the real prehistoric sin you've committed is almost a treasonable crime, a forint at the market rate. So, before the first speaker in KDNP beats his breast so much that the Government of Hungary is making progress, look around regional countries and different countries in the region, where basically there is a conversion around the exchange rate at the time of admission. Hungary is the driving force in terms of simply dropping market rates on people and saying that 734 billion were returned to people. Think about how many times this could have been unwarranted by the banks just because you credited this unwarranted money in your accounts. And speaking of indulgings, about 50 percent of the indulgents fell in the period 2011-12. Who's it supposed to be? And how did he behave? So we can see that these auctions, the resulting evictions, wouldn't have taken place if you hadn't put forints at market prices, and if you had supported the very same proposal that we had before us years ago. I gave you his number, you can check it out. You can check your own votes. And here in Parliament, when we bring in from week to week that, yes, there are 140 to 150 thousand people in trouble, and we have asked you to do more, to do so, not to say that gentlemen, we are working on amending the law on enforcement in this or that direction, perhaps we are thinking about introducing the possibility of walking away, but Mr. Secretary of State and many others have read to us countless times that he is not here, please, no problem. You posted on the billboard that the banks were accounted for. The reality, if it were, wouldn't have turned into this motion, which you finally put on the table. This is the same as the successful operation of Hungary. If that were the case, you wouldn't put that on billboards. The fact is, thousands of evictions could have been prevented if they had paid attention in time to essentially the same petition in due time. And we must also say that the forinting at the market rate has caused irreparable damage to the Hungarian economy. We also see that this proposal is, at the same time, certainly eligible, and I think it should be supported, that it will actually shift the bank and the victim towards a settlement, and I am very confident that, if this time acquisition, say, lasts a little more than a year, then a new government, if any, a Jobbik government, will be able to establish a fair settlement law that will move towards a forintation at the rate of admission and correct this whole situation. But we see that one of the reasons why the Hungarian economy is dehydrated is that hundreds of thousands of people, former productive, tax-paying people, are in an unworthy situation, in which it is largely out of fault. And I would like to ask my fellow Members that the institution of this incredibly screwed-up private failure should not at least be promoted as a success. There is also a need for insight in political life. Admit that you've screwed up a good opportunity, set such strict restrictive conditions that only a few hundred people wanted to see it, and it could still be touched. It is still possible to change the conditionality so that thousands, tens of thousands, can provide meaningful help. Likewise with regard to the National Asset Manager, but they should not be considered as a permanent solution, because they are not, and your original sin still exists, the forinting at the market rate. The fact that now their own proposal, essentially the predecessor of it, was not able to vote, let alone find fit for debate, is a disgrace and a disgrace. I am very sorry to say that we will support this proposal, but be ashamed that when someone else submitted it, they were not even willing to argue about it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity is coming from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of the KDNP would like to move their proposal through Parliament in an accelerated process, with a derogation from house rules. They refer to the need to move quickly, because the eviction moratorium expired on 1 March, and it is not too late to intervene. I would like to draw the attention of honourable Members of the KDNP to the fact that they have long since been late with debt relief measures. The proposal also indicates that the problem of foreign exchange lenders remains unresolved to date. The petitioners themselves have acknowledged that there are still 145 thousand non-paying debtors. However, instead of a comprehensive approach to resolving the situation of indebted families, we see again what we have seen so far: thoughtless, hasty legislation. According to Péter Harrach and Miklós Soltész, this new step fits into the series of measures the government has taken to help foreign exchange lenders. According to them, the end-payments, the exchange rate barrier, the forinting, the National Asset Manager, the Ocsai residential park and the private bankruptcy all helped insolvent debtors in distress. But that's not true. The failed foreign exchange credit measures of the Orbán government did not help just those who needed it the most, those who threatened to lose their homes. Let's get on with it. First, both the final repayment and the forinting aimed at the remaining debtors who could pay. With the end-payment, only the top 15 percent of all foreign exchange lenders could survive, saving millions, tens of millions. Of the Members of Parliament, the percentage was 75%. It was good for those who didn't need help, who had reserves. Those who lived overnight, without savings, only received tax increases on their necks, one-key taxes, the abolition of the tax credit, 27 percent VAT, transaction tax, a series of passed-on taxes. In addition, many of the borrowers took credit for their repayment, i.e. remained in debt. The second is: for three and a half years, Fidesz-KDNP has done nothing for those who are in difficulty and insolvent with their loans. After that, all he did was open the price barrier to those who had over three months of debt, but by then hundreds of thousands had fallen, and they had lost their apartment. The exchange rate barrier didn't eliminate the risk anyway, it only pushed the problem out in time. The third is: the forinting was also delayed and unfair. This could have been done at a much lower rate in 2010 after the change of government. [[18.20]] The HUF 136 billion profit was generated by the Hungarian National Bank, which was recognised by György Matolcsy himself, and the central bank foundations were filled with it. The forinting was also unfair, as the government had previously exempted from exchange rate risk the better-off credentials who were able to repay it. However, those who had their loans forinted years later have been repaid according to the original conditions. So the government did not help those who really needed it. Fourth: the National Asset Manager, created to buy properties of the housing crooks in distress, remained only one option; the government barely put money into it. By the end of 2016, the National Asset Manager closed the purchase of 26,000 apartments, while the number of non-paying mortgage lenders exceeded 100,000. Fifth: in the middle of nowhere, an isolated apartment park in Ocsa was not a success story. Within the framework of the social house building program, 80 residential houses were built by 2013, costing HUF 2.7 billion, which could have been spent much more intelligently. Sixth, your private bankruptcy has also become a non-viable institution, which has been used by only 600 people to date. One year's operating expenses of the system, set up from more than HUF 600 million, could have been sufficient to cover the debt of the debtor without the debt settlement, as many as had so far entered the scheme. The KDNP proposal now submitted is also a ban on auctioning below the estimated value. It is late because it is a tool that affects a narrow range of debtors and does not provide a meaningful solution. In the current housing market situation, with increased demand and high prices, the main problem is not that real estate is sold at low prices. In the case of rural properties that are difficult to auction, we cannot talk about solving the problem. Rather, the amendment concerns only the length of the procedure, the auction process is delayed, and the property can last 80 percent of the estimated value in the many rounds. And it is not true what was said by the authors when they said that kicking people on the ground is still a debt to the authentic, so they suggest that the remaining debt should be released by the banks. This is not the case in the bill, so the Members did not read the proposal themselves. Since 2010, LMP has made countless proposals to help insolvent debtors in distress. We have also said many times that not only foreign exchange lenders are in a difficult situation, but the forint-credited, fee-refunders who are behind on rent, common costs and rent. Several proposals have been made to help people who have lost their homes, who have been disturbed or insolvent. Some of these. We have proposed three means of ending debt slavery. One is the debt ceiling, i.e. the right to walk away, which means that the claim must not be greater than the property or movable property used to cover it. That's the move KDNP didn't dare take to the banks. If someone has a debt on his house, for example, he can walk away by making this house available to the bank and lose his debt. We've proposed a functioning private bankruptcy, which is our second proposal. On the basis of foreign examples, they already have a private bankruptcy law, but it is not viable because of the too strict conditions of entry, repayment and cooperation. (c) it was part of our proposal to limit the right of satisfaction. The rules for proportional participation in auctions were introduced. Therefore, the debtors would still be able to recover the proportional part of their contribution even if the bank's claim was not repaid as a whole. That is, if a person took out a ten-million-dollar apartment with a 50-percent share, but the auction only paid 6 million for it, then both the bank and the debtor will receive HUF 3-3 million, so that they can both get out of the loan with 2 million losses. After the sale of the pawnshop, the bank shall not have any further claim to the debtor. These proposals, which would have allowed the debt to not remain after the auctioning of the property, were all voted down by KDNP. We also made a proposal to set up a national real estate fund instead of an asset manager with the participation of debtors, banks and municipalities. It would also have been possible to rent and buy back real estate. We proposed that the right to housing be declared in the Fundamental Law and that the ban on evictions without accommodation be prohibited. There is no decent life without proper shelter. It must be ensured that everyone has the opportunity to find an affordable solution. Fourthly, we have proposed and proposed a social housing programme with affordable, cheap, energy-efficient apartments. In recent years, rent prices have only deepened the housing crisis. With its home creation program, the government only helped the upper and upper middle classes, and did not help the low-income lower middle class in housing. He even stopped buying apartments. We would see this solution in a public housing fund and in the restoration of housing support. In the rental sector, we would include the 100,000-sized, well-equipped but empty private apartments [[Defiance.]] and the tenements to be renovated, which are not currently inhabited by the municipality. I can see that my fellow Members sometimes look at me with some pretty stunned faces. Can you imagine if someone had a condo bought for real estate investment, say, or between you guys, that's empty? Yeah, they do. These apartments could be used very well. Very often, the owner does not dare to do so; if it were a state guarantee, I think that this could work much more easily. There are a huge number of apartments of this type, and, yes, that could be changed. [[István Szilárd Németh's intervention.]] Possibly Other Politics will support the bill, as we voted in favour of a derogation from the house rule, because even if there are few debtors, this amendment can help a little. At the same time, we think that this is already part of the damage relief, the government has failed to comprehensively sort out the situation of foreign exchange and other credible debtors, and now, rushing to the conclusion of the moratorium, it sets up a proposal that is nothing but a meaningful solution. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-06-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Staudt Gábor is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, the proposal is to be welcomed, but it would have been good to have a little more time to prepare not only for us but also for themselves, because here there are also a few question marks, regardless of whether the proposal is a step forward in relation to the current situation, and I would also like to raise the question: in view of these, it may be necessary to reconsider other laws, because if, in the case of implementation, 100% of the value and 90 percent of the value - so much so can be reduced on the basis of the agreed amendments - it might not be unreasonable to introduce it in the rules on banks, which have occurred several times as a right to walk away. So, not only in implementation, there should be such a limit, but this should also be included in the laws on banks. So we can consider this as a first step in a complete package that regulates the sector. I hope that this will be the case anyway, I add, this will obviously be shown by the Ministry or by political decisions, but it is also painful that this has to be discussed so quickly, and it would have been time to submit it, because it has been a long time since there has been a problem with the towering of foreign exchange cases, because then those points that appear to be a bit of a problem, but in practice, could have been corrected, or there would have been time to correct, which is clearly not now, because the legislative committee has had good proposals, even the government has not been able to properly think about it on the spot, because obviously they could not have been present with the expert background, which, for the whole of the ministry, let us say, would have been available during a background reconciliation. For this reason, I felt at the committee meeting that they had forgotten or had not thought enough about a construction, what if the debt was on two real estates, and one of the properties, let's say, was owned by the borrower family, and, say, because they could not provide sufficient coverage, either because of the low level of valuation, or because the bank had set the conditions that another apartment had to be included, let's say, the parents of the borrowers' apartments were involved, in which case I feel that the proposals that we have just adopted still serve some question marks. [[18.30]] By the way, that's why we had a duality on the proposal of the MSZP, because obviously the MSZP had an hour to submit the proposal. So it has to be said, and I think that they, too, when they wrote this, thought that this debt would cost a property, that if the bank left at 100%, the bank would not be able to claim further debt, because when he did the valuation, he would have to assume that if the loan fell, he would be able to earn satisfaction from it. But in the case of two real estates, this is no longer the case, since the fate of the two real estates is both linked and separated. I said this example: if, on the basis of your proposal, the Fidesz proposal is that, let's say, you have two properties under mortgage law, the debtor would agree with the bank, but let's say, your debt goes beyond your own property, and you owe a few million forints more, but you can't go on your own property at 100 percent, as, let's say, you can't find a buyer, but he says you should go away at 90 percent, and then I'll pay you the rest of the money, or you'll pay your family's money, but you don't have to auction the property of the parents who have been living in it for a long time, obviously this will be a barrier to the settlement, because unless he pays this amount in advance, the bank will tell you how I would make a deal, because it's still worth a few million forints or a few million forints. Of course, there may be rules for this to be established in practice, to pay in advance the rest of it, only who knows if the bank will comply with the settlement offer if it has seen some money. These are difficult questions, which I would have liked to have thought about, just as we have been able to discuss the implementation costs here with Mr. Secretary of State, but... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's it? [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Ten minutes in total.]] Sorry, there wasn't time for important things then. It also shows that the method of negotiation is unfortunately not optimal. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Károly Kontra: Should have been more divided!]]
u2017-03-06-248	Congressman, if you had listened at the beginning, you would certainly have come to the knowledge that you have a ten-minute time frame for a faction. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I halved it in my head that it was five minutes.]] But you know the rules of the house, and you know that this debate we are having right now gives us this much opportunity. It is up to Mr Szilárd Németh, from the Fidesz Group.
u2017-03-06-249	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In silence here, observing who has focused on what, it is clear that a very serious political confrontation is taking place here in this Chamber, and it is clear that opposition parties are reacting in a totally frightened and cornered manner, they are very scared of the future. I think it's cute here or not. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian, presenting a document: 2014, my little friend!]] Slowly, the rightists who change their guard vests to tull skirts can only attack, do nothing but make proposals that cannot otherwise be implemented, and that is their only goal for each speech. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You don't know what you're talking about!]] I saw that the comrades were not caught up in the Momentum by accident, as they were saying among themselves, here I read in the newspaper, that after the killing of the Olympic dream, these young left-wing Titans would be able to slaughter the soccer buffalo, the old buffalo. So I understand why you are so concerned with this issue, but it should not be addressed, but this proposal, which is a continuation of a very long series and an even longer set of measures that trigger it. Today Hungary is in such a strong state, the economy is so strong [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] That we can practically go to the wall in this home-security program, in exchange for loans, and that's what's happening. After all, this can be integrated into a series, as the Secretary of State and the Head of the Group have said, this is a long-term, very thoughtful series of steps to save one and a half million families from the debt trap that the comrades have chased them into. Just to remind you, Mr. Secretary of State or former Secretary of State, because you were the Secretary of State of the government that created this opportunity for the people with [[Sándor Burány: You created it!]] that the preferential home creation was completely abolished, taken away from the people: what could have taken on a HUF loan could have been taken at a interest rate of 30-40 percent. They pushed people into this whole trap, into this spiral, and people took on everything without a neck anyway, not just to create homes for these foreign exchange loans. But before that, comrades, you made sure that the highest loans were taken, either by members of the government or by two ministers, 30 million forints, a week before they closed the door in front of everyone. So I think you need to back off a little bit when you talk about the possibility of this loan being created by the first Orbán government. [[Sándor Burány: Like this, like this!]] This loan was available for a credit facility for very few people and under very serious conditions such as preferential home creation. So let's get this straight. [[Sándor Burány: And this opportunity remained up to HUF 15 million, Comrade Németh!]] In order not to go all the way back in time, I would like to inform you of my two amendments. The point of one of the amendments is that when, after one year, the continuous auction will no longer be able to sell the apartment at 100%, it can be 90 percent, so 80 percent of the original proposal was decided to raise it to 90 percent at today's meeting of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. The other is the possibility of a settlement between the debtor and the bank and between the debt manager, and as a result of this arrangement nothing, but nothing, fees or debt, can remain in the apartment if they agree on the percentage and the price at which they can satisfy and eliminate this whole arrangement. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the KDNP Group, Mr Imre Vejkey follows within the remaining timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-251	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The problem we started from was that we find it unacceptable that banks and debt managers are trying to loot people, because most of the housing of insolvent debtors is being auctioned under value. Therefore, our aim is to ensure that during the enforcement procedure, the sale of the seized assets, i.e. residential property, is sold at a price higher than possible, at least at a traffic value. To this end, our bill states that in the enforcement procedure for the recovery of claims based on a contract with the consumer, a valid purchase offer can be made at least at a starting price for the auctioning of residential property, with a value of at least 70 per cent of the current value, ladies and gentlemen. If, after two unsuccessful auctions, a year has passed since the publication of the continuous auction notice, at least 90% of the starting price for residential property may be offered. Our bill also provides that, at the request of the parties, at the request of the parties, and at the request of the debtors, the executioner reduces the amount at which an auction or purchase offer can be made in the course of the sale of the property. Following the allocation of the auction price from this auction, the remaining claim shall cease to exist and the enforcement procedure shall be terminated. Ladies and Gentlemen, The point is that if there is an agreement, the remaining claim will be terminated and enforcement will be terminated against all debtors. Let's take a look at what Sándor Burány put up. Mr Sándor Burány said that they tabled a proposal that the debtor would be exempt from all debts. Let's take a look at your proposal. Their proposal is that, in the case of the sale of residential property under this paragraph, the applicant for enforcement may not, under this contract with the consumer, claim in addition to the amount of the purchase price. [[18.40]] That is, if you look at it, they will say, which is the key to this sentence, that you have concluded with the consumer on the basis of this contract. This means that the MSZP thought that only contracts with consumers would limit the possibility of leaving. However, we believe that not only on the basis of a contract with consumers, but also on the basis of all creditors. So we believe that our bill therefore covers a much larger circle. As a matter of fact, it is also a question of why banks will have an interest in concluding an agreement. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen, that if you have to buy the property at a market price of 100%, that is to say, if any of us advertise our own apartment at market value, if a buyer comes, you can negotiate the price, but here you can't, because the market value remains. So, obviously, the banks will be forced to enter into an agreement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. As there is no time left for any of the political groups to speak, the consolidated debate is closed. More people looked at me so strangely, I guess, in six seconds, you can't really speak up. But if anyone insists, I'd be happy to give you the opportunity. [[There's no signal.]] I am now going to ask the rapporteur, Mr Miklós Soltész, because he is here as his representative, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. The time frame is 7 minutes 30 seconds. Here you go.
u2017-03-06-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I say to Mr Sándor Burány, a socialist Member, that I am a little sorry for you, because the way the socialists failed people, the homeowners, so your faction has let you down. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why should we be personal now?]] At first, the ladies were sitting here, sitting here to participate in this debate, and then they saw that this was a very loser course you were trying to pin on us, and they left quickly. Because you said that if the debt-saving package was successful, I mean, what Fidesz and KDNP did, we wouldn't be here. Honourable Congressman, former Secretary of State. I'm sorry, there were a million and a half families in trouble, and it's a huge number compared to that, no one's arguing. It would be best if no one was hurt, but we're talking 145-150 thousand people. If this isn't a huge job for you that we've done over the past six years, then I don't know if we can exchange any ideas at all in a meaningful debate. The fact that you stopped making homes and then raised interest on loans drove people into foreign exchange loans. [[Sándor Burány: The banks took it up, the National Bank!]] If someone doesn't admit it, then there's a big problem if someone doesn't admit that under your administration, almost everything that was extra money anywhere and raises, it's all financed by credit. And that's why the whole country's in this situation, because that's how they've been thinking, thinking they don't have to pay it back, and then the day after tomorrow, they'll figure it out. And it's been beamed a little bit to people, even though, once again, they've stopped creating homes. [[Sándor Burány: We didn't eliminate it, we limited it, I say again, we limited it!]] They drove people into foreign currency loans, and they let the bills get away. So after that, I don't know what else it takes to understand what decisions and steps have been made over the last few years, because the CSOK, which now helps a lot of people, we give it to people for nearly HUF 100 billion, because the National Asset Manager bought tens of billions of forints of homes, which resulted in tens of thousands of people staying in the home where they lived. I think that these are all results, and the same result is the elimination of foreign exchange credit, the price barrier and the things listed above. What about the fact that we broke the forint? [[Sándor Burány: Fact!]] I'm telling you, you've got to be kidding me. Before 2010, what you've done, you've put a loan on credit, you've run to the IMF for help, and by the way, everything you've done has been lifted, which has been at least a step in your eight-year governance. So I think it really is a little bit, as Szilárd Németh said, comrades, back off! What's interesting is that Z. Carpathian is Daniel's. On the one hand, I say, Congressman, we are not ashamed of ourselves, and on the other hand, do not dream. You may be ashamed, because if the Vona Gábor party president really is the model for home creation and home rescue, then I think neither I nor the Fidesz-KDNP nor the people in your practice are asking for it. And you know very well that the many, many steps we've taken, and we've confirmed them with numbers and numbers before, could be introduced step by step. You know that very well, it's another matter that you don't want to admit it. Unfortunately, I can't say anything to István Ikotity, because on the one hand he's not sitting here, he wasn't sitting here when we said our arguments. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is very weak!]] By the way, he listed the comments that we have already made here in the debate to raise the 80% threshold to 90 per cent, as long as it is possible to go down in the event of the auction. You don't know what this is about, they handed it to you the usual way from LMP, someone wrote your speech the day before yesterday or the day before, ran in, read it, ran away, that's all. That's what the LMP's attitude towards the whole home creation and people in general is, in fact, just a... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why should such things...? You think it looks good on me? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-03-06-254	Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian! I'm afraid I don't have a chance to give you the floor now. You have to admit that. So I'm going to ask Congressman Miklós Soltés to continue.
u2017-03-06-255	Thank you very much. There was much truth in Gábor Staudt's proposal, too, it is a pity that he really didn't have time to continue, because there was something worth listening to. All I'd tell him is that you can't write legislation for every situation, it's impossible. So it is certain that life produces, on the one hand, the questions that he has said, but on the other hand, both debtors and creditors must resolve this in some way. It is almost impossible to say yes or no to everything, or to set a clear direction. I thank both Imre Vejkey and, of course, Peter Harrach and Szilárd Németh and all those who helped with this legislation. It may be said that it was fast, yes, because it needs to be helped quickly, but these laws have had to be brought in, improved, and always watched for what needs to be improved in six years. And as ridiculous as you think, let's say, any area of debt relief on Jobbik's part, Dániel Z. Carpathian, yes, if we save 80 families somewhere, it is important to save hundreds of families, and it was equally important for us to save tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, and once again, to save one and a half million families. Thank you very much for the debate, however. Thank you very much for the proposals that help families in distress, and I very much hope that this will help another tens of thousands. I wish you all the best. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws relating to the tightening of procedures in the field of border surveillance is now under discussion. The government referral is T/13976. The Commission's non-autonomous motions are available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Károly Kontra, if he wishes to speak. [[Károly Kontra: I would like to end it.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he will want it in the close-up - because my fellow Members are familiar with the presentation anyway. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you will then have a ten-minute time-frame to say the closing word. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, We will now hear the opinion of the designated Defence and Police Committee. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre. As no minority opinion was formulated at the committee meeting, the timeframe is six minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Defence and Police Committee is the decision on certain house rules 44-45. It held a detailed discussion of the bill on the basis of Article 5 of the Act. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. No amendments were tabled to the bill, and the committee did not express any intention to amend it, so the committee closed the detailed debate on the bill on 1 March 2016. In the event of the adoption of the bill, no one may enter the territory of Hungary illegally and thus the European Union, asylum applications may be lodged in the transit zone, and must remain in this designated place until the decision is taken, or, if the applicant does not wish to remain in this designated place, he may leave the territory of the country. The tightening up introduced by the bill significantly reduces the security risks arising from illegal migration, thus reducing the threat of terrorism in our country and in the European Union. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, and two-minute speeches are not possible in the course of the debate. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. Thus, Mr Károly Kontra does not have anything to answer. Of course, the time frame is available, so I would like to give the floor so that you do not forget to keep in mind that there was no speaker in the debate.
u2017-03-06-259	Thank you very much for informing the President. I would like to thank very much for the contribution of my fellow Members in the general debate who supported the bill and I ask this House to support the proposal in the final vote tomorrow, since tightening the legal border is more secure and more protection for Hungary, the Hungarian people. This is in line with our national interests, which is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The debate of the Commission's report on the adoption of the business report and report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2015 is now taking place. H/13282 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available to all on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask Mr Jenő Manninger, as rapporteur, if he wishes to speak. [[On Jenő Manninger's mark:]] Yeah. Here you go, Congressman. You have a ten-minute time frame now and in closing together.
u2017-03-06-261	Thank you very much. Dear House, The Economic Committee discussed the annual accounts of the Central Bank, and we presented a proposal for a decision adopting the business report and report for 2015. As regards the central bank's report, it is worth reminding you of the three basic tasks that the central bank has to carry out in 2015 to the best of its knowledge: maintaining price stability, ensuring financial stability and supporting economic policy. In terms of price stability, the figures show that inflation in 2015 was below 1 per cent. This is the third year in which inflation was virtually zero, and we should never forget that it is practically the tax of the poor. This is particularly beneficial for the population and the poorer, as it provides price stability. If we look at financial stability, we also closed a very strong year in 2015. It has brought a real breakthrough that the central bank has been under the control of financial institutions and has been able to detect a series of frauds over ten years, as we have seen over the past period, and the financial markets have since been reassured. There was also another advantage that these abuses had been discovered, as this has also strengthened confidence in the banking system, and on the other hand, and there is obviously an exchange rate policy involved, and the savings of the population could be returned directly to business. If we look primarily at the situation on the housing market at the rate of change in the last six months or three quarters of the year, then I think that has also contributed significantly to economic growth. Support for economic policy is reflected in the number of economic performances: Hungarian GDP grew by 3.4 percent in 2015, with which we were clearly at the forefront of Europe. The year 2015 also showed that the central bank was able to respond very well to external market developments that could partly have developed in line with the expectations and, in part, differing from that. If I mention the HUF 300 billion that was saved by the central bank for public finances in 2015 alone, then the amount that the government was quite rightly spending on economic development and economic recovery clearly served to improve people's standard of living. Allow me to highlight a few things from the report, which our group can also welcome and consider important. In March 2015, the central bank further reduced its benchmark rate and re-launched the interest reduction programme. From March, the Monetary Council reduced the central bank base rate by 15 basis points and 75 basis points to an unprecedented low level of 1.35 per cent. The National Bank also revised the inflation target, following which the Monetary Council identified an additional to minus 1 percentage point tolerance band while maintaining the 3% inflation target, thereby making the inflation target monitoring system more flexible. In addition to the gradual interest rate steps, the MNB has also used other targeted monetary policy instruments to restore the monetary transmission channel that was damaged during the crisis and to reduce Hungary's external vulnerability. Another incentive was the growth credit programme, whose balance sheet has been clearly impressive: since its launch nearly 31 thousand companies have already received funding for some HUF 2126 billion, which has played an important role not only in halting the decline in the loan portfolio, but also in creating a meaningful impact on economic growth. I also consider it important to mention from the report that during the year, the central bank foreign exchange tenders for clearing consumer foreign exchange loans and the forging of consumer foreign currency mortgage loans have been completed. In total, the central bank sold EUR 9127 million to credit institutions at tenders, of which EUR 1081 million for settlement and EUR 8046 million for forinting. It is also important that the vulnerability of the domestic financial system was significantly reduced in 2015. Accounting and forinting managed effectively to address systemic risks arising from retail foreign exchange loans, and the central bank's self-financing programme significantly reduced the country's external vulnerability. Overall, I would like to say that if we look at even this year's figures, they will be similar. It can be said that, hopefully, in the following evaluations, we can say that we are closing a successful year. So the optimistic approach in the concept of managing the central bank has brought success. On the basis of all these results, I propose to this House that it adopt the Hungarian National Bank's business report for the year 2015, the B/10645. Report No 1 and the relevant proposal for a decision adopting it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-262	Congressman! I would like to inform you that you will have a time frame of 4 minutes and 40 seconds. I will ask if the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. [[On Dr. Róbert Homolya's mark:]] You don't wish to speak, thank you very much. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches to make, until the deadline has been published on the billboard. I give the floor first from the LMP Group to Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman. [[19.00]]
u2017-03-06-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In György Matolcsy's introduction, he made one of the most successful years of his life in 2015, i.e. since the foundation of 1924. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This sentence also shows that the President of the Central Bank is living in a dream world. He calls it one of the most successful years with broker scandals, offshore properties, when the MNB cheated out 134 billion from foreign exchange lenders, which they then tried to make disappear in order to lose their public finances. It's not just ridiculous, it's impertinent. Some of the following tasks - price stability, inflation, interest rates - are not yet magical. György Matolcsy is considered by the Prime Minister and, as a result, by many of the governing parties as some kind of economic genius, who has pulled the country out of the pit, so to whom everything can be tolerated, up to 100 billion, and the destruction of the MNB. It's not about genius. The performance of the Hungarian economy is also lagging behind in relation to its fellow Central and Eastern Europeans operating in the same conditions. Trends are similar both in terms of growth and in terms of improving the budgetary situation and reducing interest rates and inflation, but are only more favourable in most places. In fact, the failure of the Matolcsysta policy is indicated by the fact that, while we draw a European Union resource of 3-5 per cent of GDP per year, our economic growth is only 2-3 per cent. So without it, it would probably be negative, because the money is flowing, and we know where it is: private pockets. One of the central banks is the Hungarian National Bank itself. In the report, György Matolcsy also presented a rather steep conspiracy theory that outside forces wanted to create a bank panic. Such adversaries, visions, usually come out when a person wants to hide something, to guide it. That's what's happening here. The MNB has actively assisted in a 200 billion-dollar scam, a charade. Uncountedly, he spends hundreds of billions of taxpayers on luxury expenses, offshore shops, real estate. They're gonna raise their own salary two or three times, and they're gonna make a million bucks anyway. These rightly criticized things need to be distracted somehow, with the greater bluff and bluff, the greater the laundry. Based on the findings of the summary, take the tasks and performance of the MNB in a row. As far as part of the following tasks are concerned, interest policy and price stability are not outstanding, but have been provided by the MNB. Not particularly, because he had nothing to do but adapt to favourable international trends and reduce interest. He did that with some caution. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But in the second part of his next assignment, he failed. Money market supervision was powerless and blind, and political corruption made it totally lame. Broker scandals, especially the Quaestor case, have shown why the corrupt system built up in the country is harmful, how it causes people hundreds of billions of HUF damage. The MNB is also legally involved in supporting economic policy. Compared to this, György Matolcsy does not support, but controls Hungarian economic policy, which is essentially unconstitutional, because the irresponsible MNB makes decisions instead of the responsible ministries. But this is also one of the features of the beautiful new Hungarian feudal world: the irresponsible National Bank concept has evolved. Matolcsy would also destroy the professional quality of the MNB, corrupting the stock. The first phase of the growth credit programme was clearly a failure, and most of it did not go to investment, but to credit. The second stage didn't help much either. Overall, it is less effective, but it is a very expensive tool for taxpayers. As a result of the forinting, the MNB has also reportedly damaged the foreign exchange lenders by HUF 134 billion, thus forming its own capital that has lost its public financial character. That doesn't even need to be classified. What the MNB has done in addition to the following tasks is scandal, shame of the world, irresponsible waste of money, and we believe that it has made the Hungarian National Bank the citadel of corruption. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Meanwhile, the President of the National Bank is using the home of the President of the Banking Association, also breaking the rules. That's unacceptable, we think.
u2017-03-06-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. You have two minutes.
u2017-03-06-265	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was shocked to hear from Congressman Manninger that the National Bank ensured financial stability and that it had closed a strong year in 2015. I just wanted to ask you who closed a strong year in 2015. Oh, that he was getting paid by the foundations to his friends, and by skimming 260 billion forints? I am quite certain that there was, we have seen, a very strong year for 2015, but not for Hungarian citizens, that is for sure. Something quite amazing is going on in the National Bank, and the President of the Hungarian National Bank has spoken incredible nonsense in the general debate on this proposal. What's going on? We're talking about distractions again. Instead of standing up for all the crap that György Matolcsy said, which is quite amazing, instead of doing and dealing with what work the National Bank is doing, it has not performed its duties in its supervisory powers, so it has disappeared in the case of Quaestor and Buda-Cash for more than HUF 330 billion, and it has been an amazing number of tens of thousands of victims of these cases. Let's talk about the foundations, how the 260 billion forints that you only realized months later were public money. We can talk about the MKB case, or if we want to talk about security issues at all costs, such as whether it actually works or works in the Hungarian National Bank, shadow-secret service. So I think that the distraction, the bullshit that the President of the National Bank of Hungary says must not be overcome. It is a shame and a shame to be such a president of the National Bank in Hungary! It is a shame and a shame that the government does not reverse any position in this matter and that the Hungarian state and the Hungarian people are being harmed by hundreds of billions! [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He said that the management of the Hungarian National Bank has an optimistic view. [[The president's ringing again.]] I would like to say that there will not be an optimistic attitude for long, and that both personal, political, and professional responsibility will happen. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-06-266	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[Sándor Burány reporting.]] I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány, MSZP.
u2017-03-06-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. To be a bluff, a bluff, and a bluff. The report by the President of the National Bank of Hungary and his exposé on this occasion can be described in Parliament with about these three words. Let us begin with perhaps the most serious bluff, by the fact that György Matolcsy confronted us here at the plenary session with a rather amazing conspiracy theory, in which he claimed no less than that a foreign, otherwise allied power in four cities of Hungary and, in general, by questioning the stability of the financial system, tried to overthrow the Hungarian government. Since then, several parliamentary committees have been forced to deal with the matter. In some cases, this was not allowed by the pro-government representatives, but where this debate had to take place on its own initiative, it was quite simply found that this was not the case. We have to face the question: is the President of the National Bank of Hungary paranoid, and if so, does this disease allow him to hold office at all? If we focus on the accounts of the Hungarian National Bank, we are experiencing amazing allegations. The most serious of these is that, while talking about financial stability, the Hungarian National Bank has the philosophy, in line with the government, that it has no currency target, leaving the forint to its fate. To date, this will result in a weak forint, which, although exporting multinational companies profit well, will otherwise give negative effects to the majority of the country. [[19.10]] And it is quite amazing that he prides himself on business successes in a self-righteous, self-righteous way, of which he was the only source, that, after the forinting at the market rate, the Hungarian National Bank gained a hundred billion-dollar profit by cutting down foreign exchange credentials. To be honest, this should be respected rather than proud of it, because this profit does not come from the management of the Hungarian National Bank, it does not come from the cost-saving measures, which are the bank's own performance, but comes from laws imposed on the Hungarian people, which were clearly beneficial to the Hungarian National Bank. If you look at the events that followed, as Congresswoman Márta Demeter has already mentioned, it is quite amazing how they tried to hide how this profit is squandered through foundations for quite amazing purposes, such as promoting the economic policy views of the President of the Central Bank, buying art and buying castles, it is difficult to list what hundreds of billions of forints have been wasted on. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. It is quite simply this report, in this form an amazing distortion of the truth, has serious shortcomings that it does not speak frankly about the problems that arose around the House of the National Bank of Hungary. Dear House, It is quite simply impossible to accept this report. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-06-268	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask again whether someone wants to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I ask the rapporteur whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Manninger has a four-minute 40-second time frame.
u2017-03-06-269	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will only reply briefly, because I believe that the comments did not reflect a professional or even a financial and economic policy debate, but repeated the usual political accusations and campaign-like speeches that we already know from the press. So I do not wish to answer that question; the adoption of this report is not about me responding to certain personal attacks. Actually, we didn't hear any substantive financial and economic opinions, at least which is new. I think, and I am sure that the 2015 results do hold up, which is obviously difficult for opposition representatives to acknowledge, but this is the world. So I look forward to the coming years with interest, and I hope that we can still report positive economic and financial developments, in which the National Bank will have a positive role. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-270	Thank you very much to the author. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the amendment of Law I of 1988 on road transport follows a debate. Government referral T/13484. a serial number and the Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary Homolya says not now. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur has been presented by the designated Economic Committee, and there shall be speeches by its representatives, if any, within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. [[For signal:]] Yeah, I do. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik.
u2017-03-06-271	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to state about the bill itself that perhaps, compared to the final debate and the Commission summary, there has been a much more lively and serious debate, in which Jobbik's position was clearer than ever. This position is also the position of workers. The fact that workers are not actually asked for their opinions is no surprise, but we are surprised that even Parliament's information lists are not read by Members, and this is also shocking. If you'd read it, you'd know that hours of overtime have been strained, and there's a considerable lack of bus drivers, even if you hadn't been given leave. Departure, the fact that skilled workers who do extremely responsible work, but who are shamelessly underpaid, work in one of the western states, is, in our opinion, only going to speed up with this legislation. This has been the last eight years, and it can now be said that it is also the fault of the next seven years. You, my fellow Members, who are dear Fidesz and who claim to be left-wing, and who follow their neoliberal economic philosophy to the very core, you have done what you have done to drive the workers out of here. And, of course, Viktor Orbán, who has never said anything unfairly in Brussels, never once said what Hungarian wages were like, never once said it in Brussels. In fact, he considered cheap labour as our main competitive advantage, and it was necessary for him to run over trade unions and, when possible, to do so. But, fellow Members, do you remember the black T-shirt alert action of the bus drivers? That's enough here to get these bus drivers, for example, to challenge themselves with the disapproval of power. No wonder, then, if, because of such wage conditions and poor working conditions, the bus driver is getting fewer and fewer today, and if they run out, then community transport is over, and my fellow cynically grinning pro-government colleagues [[Miklós Soltész: Have you read this?]] Indeed, a large majority of Hungarians are not allowed to use helicopters, they are not allowed to sit in blue flashy, air-conditioned offices in Audi, without bus transport there is no end to urban, local and rural community transport. We here at Jobbik have tried to draw their precious attention to the so-called mobility guarantee a few times. You know, that's the thing, which means that the state has a duty to keep transport systems alive, because that's how a lot of people go to work, study, see a doctor, do official business, or visit family members. But obviously all this is as foreign to you as the historical anecdote says Marie Antoinette's people are starving. He suggested if there's no bread, eat some cake. I'm sure you'd answer to people with reduced bus service to take a cab. At an earlier stage of the debate, it was argued that the proposal provides sufficient rest for bus drivers working in divided working order. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You think nine hours is enough to get her home after work is done, and then the next day, of course, back to her place of business? So clean up, eat, sleep, maybe, don't give me God, even take care of your family? How much sleep can this worker sleep? Five, six hours? Is that what you call rest? You're kidding, right? But as a joke, let's say it's really bad if you think so. Do not argue how well the so-called rest period between the first and the second part of the day shift is, look at the conditions at the bus companies' premises, and at what place these workers, who, by the way, are responsible for many, many lives in their daily work, should rest. That rest period is basically nothing, a lost, lost time. You're proposing 9 hours of rest-related rest, that's what you'll get for the second part of the split shift until the next session, but we've asked for 11 hours in our amendment, which is the minimum that workers deserve. By the way, we do not accept the bill before us, and of course we can defend ourselves with the extra budgetary implications of Jobbik's proposal, and it would require additional resources, but it would be, believe me, but we shouldn't piss off, steal it, throw it away with both hands, it would be a better place. We're not on the side of the oligarch, we're on the side of the people, in which case we're on the side of the bus drivers. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-272	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP. [[19.20]]
u2017-03-06-273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the general debate is concerned, I have already demonstrated why this is a bill against bus drivers. Simply because, as mentioned above, a shared rest period, its break for 3 or 9 hours means that, under normal circumstances, a bus driver who starts at dawn can get home around 8:00 p.m. or later, cannot deal with his family, can not regenerate, and can not use his rest period intelligently, because the first three-hour rest period is not suitable for getting home, doing anything, buying, doing, and returning to his workplace, to his place of duty. One word, like a hundred, basically creates the situation that the availability period for which a supplement would otherwise have to be paid is issued as a quasi-recreational period. That's cheeky! It is unscrupulous, because these people are being exploited, and they are absolutely putting them on the path of harm to the physical integrity of others, as a result of the clearly inadequate ability, willingness, or pressure to take up the job. I must say that the aim of this bill, which, as a two-part edition of the daily rest period, is to carry out tasks in the context of morning and evening peaks, is not the solution. This is not the solution, but the solution is to employ more people. Oh, you can't employ more people, because 600,000 people have been driven out of this country in the last six or seven years by not giving them living conditions that would ensure a minimum of decent living! Well, that's the result of your policy. I still have to say there's no other way. People must be paid 1 at least at such a level that they can find the basis for a decent living; 2. they must be employed in such a way that it does not lead to vulnerability but gives them a calm, normal, decent working environment. And besides all this, it's obviously not just about them, because public transport, road transport, is about to be accompanied by as little risk as possible by the transport of a crowd of those bus drivers from A to B or C to D, so the conditions for the absence of accidents should be guaranteed. The other part of the story is that they wish to lay down different rules compared to the existing Labour Code, and also to break even the existing collective agreements, although this does not mean much to you, this is what we have seen in recent years in connection with the implementation of the 2011 new Labour Code. I must say that it is also a problem that trade unions in these areas have not been willing to agree and have not been able to deal with their views on possible other roads. I think that it would have been worth taking all this into account because then they could have learned from it and not put such a bill into the walls of the House. But I consider the most serious thing to be personally, which I have just mentioned: by breaking the rest period in such a form, the chance of rest for the three-hour period is also being taken away from the person, the bus driver, and, in the meantime, the employer is relieved of payment of the stand-by allowance, so to speak; from the other side, this man, who should be available as a bus driver in this sense, is put in the position that, on account of his lack of real rest, even during the second peak period, so during the afternoon peak, he should not be fit, not rested, but tired, and that he should be at risked himself and the multitude of the people he transported. Another problem, as I said, is that it is disrupting the content and validity of existing collective agreements, and in fact it is not kicking off in any other way, but in a way that results in a clear, tangible deterioration of working conditions, leading to a minimization of the safety and health of workers. A rest period is a rest period that can actually be filled with rest. Breaking by 12:00 to 3:00 and 9:00 means that a person can't use that time to rest in the 3:00 and 9:00 hours. Not in the 9 hours because he has to spend another half an hour, get home, and he has four to five hours of the time available for his next assignment to resume his service. Obviously, this automatically brings with it that it is unable to appear in a sufficiently rested state in connection with the upcoming shooting. So, in terms of working on a split-time basis, I think that very different solutions should be used in order not to put the health of many at risk, God forbid, his life. To sum up, if a few ideas need to be defined or related to this draft law, I have to say that an amendment that intends to determine the sharing of rest for 1 plus 11 hours seems to be a better solution. But it's not really a good solution; it's actually a good solution if you employ as many people to perform these tasks as you can do in a rested state, with sufficient security. The current situation of bringing worse working conditions to life is unacceptable. You should ensure that, on the one hand, workers' safety is strengthened and, on the other hand, passengers' safety is guaranteed in the case of transport from A to B. I do not know how the government or certain members of the government will face the situation and themselves if, in a similar way, there are situations with regard to such amendments which, in practice, bring about moderate changes in the life situation of either bus drivers or passengers that should be avoided at all costs. I would therefore like to suggest once again that, with a sufficient number of people employed, the basic conditions of work should be ensured and that all that needs to be developed, so that the appropriate number of people available for translation be ensured. My last sentence can be nothing but that: for this to happen, these people must have the resources to provide the basis for a decent living. This is their job, not to break the rest in half, as this bill carries with it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-274	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to take this opportunity. Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State, says yes. You have a ten-minute window, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-06-275	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would just like to respond quickly to what has been said in a few points and to react factually. It is not true that there has been no consultation with trade unions and relevant organisations. When preparing the bill, the industry trade unions, the larger state employers, were consulted. Members may be overlooked by the fact that a European Union directive requires that a maximum daily rest period of 11 hours be granted, and if there is more than 12 hours of rest, it is possible for the employer to issue it in two instalments. [[19.30]] This is covered by the legislative amendment proposal, which introduces a more positive rule, unlike the previous rules, when guaranteeing that this can be issued within a minimum of 9 hours and then 3 hours. So a European Union rule is this 11-hour rest clause, which is required by the European Union, and we can conclude an ongoing infringement procedure with the adoption of the bill. Otherwise, the European Commission agrees with this proposal. In terms of the conditions under which drivers work in the sector, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that in recent years there has been wage developments far above inflation, and in this respect it is still before the government, and the government is discussing the comprehensive three-year concept of wage development in this sector. So it is absolutely not true that the working conditions and wages of drivers are not dealt with by the government. If we look out for public transport, it can be said that in the last six years, I think that such a development of public transport has not really happened, thanks to the European Union, but also to domestic resources. If we look at the amount of new buses that have been purchased in recent years and what plans and appropriations are currently in this regard, it can be said that this has not been done before. This is clearly overlooked by opposition representatives. And although it wasn't related to the bill, it was said that there was an unfortunate exodus from the country. I think, and perhaps I remember, that a Prime Minister named Ferenc Gyurcsány said that anyone who does not like this can leave this country. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] So thank you very much. I think I do. I ask this House to accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-276	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Homolya. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws to the declaration of a public holiday on Friday and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The representatives of Zsolt Szemjén, László Szászfalvi, KDNP and Zoltán Balog, Mihály Varga, István Németh Szilárd, Márta Mátrai and Kristóf Szatmáry Fideszes submitted T/12969. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-03-06-277	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 2 March 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/12969 on the amendment concerning the declaration of individual laws as a public holiday day on Friday. Bill No. 1. The board of the house rules 46. It submitted a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 32 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. The summarised amendment contains the amendment proposed by the Committee on Enterprise Development, which set out technical specifications. Easter celebration, including Friday, is one of the outstanding days of Christian culture, which all Christian people and communities count among their greatest festivals. The purpose of the bill is to give families and communities the opportunity to be together, to meditate quietly, and to gain new strength for everyday life. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, as announced in the memory of the Reformation, we are creating an opportunity to help with this step to celebrate great Friday. I'd like your support, please. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-278	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary Soltes.
u2017-03-06-279	Thank you very much, very briefly. Thank you all for taking part in this debate, including what happened in the last session. Thank you very much to the authors for this proposal, and I am pleased to say that we can vote on the proposal tomorrow, which will result in a public holiday on Friday 14 April. Of course, Christianity is happy about this, for the greatest celebration is on Friday, but it is sure that this message is good and beautiful in all respects for those who are not believers. Thank you all very much for your cooperation and your help. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-280	Thank you very much. I'll ask the author if he still wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask who will apply for the speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see anyone on the screen. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-03-06-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to confirm what was said in last week's series of negotiations, not to repeat it orally, but that the Hungarian Socialist Party will support this bill in the course of tomorrow's day. In addition, I would also like to confirm on another occasion that, in fact, he has the right to exist, not to expose the events of Friday now, but to register 10 public holidays in Hungary at the moment, so this will be the 11th public holiday day. In this way, the country does not produce virtually any extreme situation, as there are some countries in Europe, where there are fewer public holidays, some countries with more public holidays in this way, so in this sense we are in the middle field. What I would actually like to mention is also because, in relation to the first item on the agenda, the statement by the government about how the consultation with social partners works or does not work. In the present case, I would also like to say that, obviously, objections have been made here from the direction of the employers' side, the National Association of Employers and Industrialists, the MGYOSZ, but regardless of them, the National Association of Entrepreneurs, VOSZ has also formulated some things that should have been considered in practice. MGYOSZ, the National Federation of Employers and Industrialists, has pushed the most part of the story of the pressure that employers are under at the moment, and of the kind of burden that the establishment of such a new public holiday will impose on them. After all, they have to face up to what I completely agree with, which is that the lowest wages have been raised, and they have to face up to their hedges, the way in which they are created. I think there's nothing wrong with that. The problem is that for a long time, out of seven years, for six years, the government has created situations in which people's pockets did not have money worth much more than the pockets of the vast majority of people, but it is worth less, because only the gross ones have increased intensively, as is the case with the minimum wage, we have faced a multitude of vulnerable situations. [[19.40]] In this sense, MGYOSZ's arguments can therefore be partially understood and accepted, especially if they had to cope with the burden, while not increasing the purchasing power of the employees of the companies they represent, and, in other respects, the resources to support the way in which they make a living. VOSZ approached this issue from another direction. In fact, they say that they do not support holidays born solely from religious grounds or considerations. Not because they are against this, but because it might be worth it, would have been more intensive, let's say, a national consultation with social partners in this regard, you know, what they often do on issues where there is virtually no need to be revealed. If this was not done, then it would be possible to expand the thinking between Parliament's walls on the exchange of views with Minister Balog last week, which was about the Hungarian Socialist Party's decision that if they had already left the social consultation and the national consultation, then here, between Parliament's walls, there should be a reflection in the relations of the parties, that not only on Friday but also on Friday 24 December should be introduced as a public holiday, because we believe that, after consulting society, a far-reaching majority of people would definitely favour 24 December, and that declaring it a public holiday would, in economic terms, have a logically less loss than the introduction of another working day. I would like to warn my fellow Members of Parliament, particularly my fellow members of the Government, in a good way, and draw their attention to the fact that the Minister himself accepted and acknowledged these thoughts a week ago, and confirmed that yes, it is true that declaring the 24 December day a public holiday is an important step. He did not make a firm promise that this would now be declared a public holiday day on a scale and will present such an amendment - as we can see from the government and government representatives and government representatives - but he made a firm promise, yes, that, bearing in mind in any case, he would also be on the table on 24 December as regards a possible next public holiday day. If not now, although we consider it important that this should have been done, I would like to remember what has been said and confirmed in this regard in the context of the general debate. I'd like to say two more thoughts at the end. One is that, as I said, the Hungarian Socialist Party will therefore support this bill, but it calls on the Government to do those preliminary consultations, impact assessments and many other things, not only in relation to these types of legislative proposals, but also in relation to all other matters, since it is necessary to consider, here too, what kind of economic failure is associated with such a public holiday; to assess them and to spread their proposals to the walls of the House in such a way that they are clearly visible to everyone. And the last thought, I confirm and repeat it, is to inculcate it into the minds of our pro-government fellow Members, so that they do not forget that it is also necessary to stand for the words spoken, so that it is your responsibility for the words spoken. If not now, don't forget that later on, as long as you have time to make it a public holiday day for the Hungarian society, it is most likely that 24 December is the day that declaring it as a public holiday would be of vital importance, so to speak, and it would be accompanied by a minimal loss for the economy. I'm asking you to take this into account. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-282	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I will ask Mrs Mátrai, whether she wishes to speak now, or as rapporteur, after the end of the debate. [[Dr. Mátrai Márta: Now.]] Now? You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-06-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I replied that I would like to respond to this now because I do not want some of the ideas that have been said by Mr Gúr to remain unanswered, although I regret that he has raised these questions again, because we have already been through them in the general debate. I must admit, I expected that the discussion about the declaration of a public holiday on Friday would take place today much higher and more worthy of the National Assembly. So I would like to begin by saying that Friday is the quietest day of the church year, because we remember the death of our Lord Christ, and this is one of the greatest holidays for all of us. What Mr Gúr has raised, however, I would like to answer. I would add that I am convinced that the 26 years since the change of regime, we are now in 27th, one of the biggest debts is the declaration of a public holiday on Friday. I can say, thank God, we are now at a point where the performance of economic life allows this to happen, and that can be achieved. However, for what my fellow Member has raised here, after the general debate, I have looked at what was said at the National Economic and Social Council, and I would like to quote this, because if my fellow Member had looked at this, it would not have happened. The National Economic and Social Council, I have also looked at this, has about 50 members, and the economic side has about 12 members, as I have counted and it is available on the Internet. So I would like to say that at the meeting of the National Economic Council, there are representatives of Church, Economic, Employee, Science, Art and Civil Society, of whom only the economic side - as I mentioned, about 12 - has raised its voice and said that it is not in favour of declaring Grandpa a public holiday. Ferenc Dávid, the Secretary-General of VOSZ, said that the organisation did not support the proposal because it meant a loss of HUF 20-25 billion to the economy, and in his view the organisation was not sufficiently prepared. I have read this money only because it would be an answer to what was said in the general debate by Mr Gúr, who then spoke of another 100 billion, and Minister Balog replied, quite rightly, who said that he considered this to be excessive. Indeed, because the representative of the VOSZ spoke of 20-25 billion, but I think that this is not an item, because if you look at who was sitting there, there was only one representative who did not support it, and the whole council supported it, and this is a body of about 65 people. Well, that's it. I would also like to respond to your next suggestion, increasing the number of public holidays. There are ten public holidays in Hungary, and this is the 11th. I don't know why this hurts you and you, Congressman. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] At the same time, if we look out for Europe, because we are members of the European Union, towards the Western world, if you will [[Nándor Gúr: A little careless about what I said...]] , then the Great Friday in Europe is a celebration in 14 countries. In Germany, there are 17 public holidays in Bulgaria, 16, Slovakia 15, Croatia 14, Austria, Czech Republic, Poland 13, Denmark, France, Belgium and 12 public holidays. So we can see that in countries of different weight groups we are much more, and again we are in the last place with the eleventh, which I hope we will vote for tomorrow, and it will be a public holiday on Friday. [[Nándor Gúr: What about December 24th?]] [[19.50]] I'd like to respond to you with one more sentence for December. I cannot justify 24 December better than Minister Balog said during the general debate, but I see that Mr President is still debating this. So you said, Minister, that Christmas, 24 December, is not an independent holiday. He also explained why: because it slipped into Christmas holidays. On the other hand, Friday has always been the greatest celebration of Christendom and Christian people, and I am very happy, and I am grateful to the Creator that we have reached the point of declaring Grandpa a public holiday, and the Hungarian government is an opportunity for families to be together and to consider or remember this Christian holiday with due dignity. But those who are not religious can happily spend these lessons with their family. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-284	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2017-03-06-285	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I wouldn't have wanted to have said anything if my fellow Member in Gul hadn't taken this debate in this direction, which is why I say that I am very sad. I am very sad that in the Hungarian Parliament, in the parliament of a more than a thousand-year-old Christian country, when we are talking about declaring a public holiday on Friday, we have to argue whether this is a public holiday. We are talking about pragmatic issues, and when I say once again, not only since St. Stephen - and let us not go into religious history debates - in a Christian country over a thousand years of age, this should be a fundamental and natural standard that everyone in this country should agree with. I would have spoken to him, but then I did not think that I would speak to him in the debate, that I wanted to draw the attention of the KDNP and the Fidesz MEPs to the fact that it is not enough to declare a public holiday only, that this holiday should be filled with real content. Just as, unfortunately, the past 26-27 years, I say, thanks to its liberal destruction, our holidays, which should be important in this country, have lost their true value and are beginning to lose their true value, so unfortunately Christmas, so today's society is much more important than Christmas, shopping and talmi glitter than the real value of the holiday. I think that we should also try, find out, and work on this on Friday, so that we can convey its true value and message as much as possible to Hungarian society and also to young people. After all, even in the young age group, it is evident that since it may not be from their parents and in this social system, in which unfortunately, as I say, basic standards and basic values are lacking even in education, it does not mean, let us say, that this is the holiday that should be reported. So I would like to ask you not only to be a public holiday, but to start thinking about what the programmes are, what the opportunities are, with which we can truly convey the real value and message of this day to society. Let me give you a personal example. I went to the movies a lot. I used to sit in movies a lot. There is only one movie that I've ever seen - when you go to the movies, you never ask people who voted for, who has attitude, Christian, atheist, or any other ideas about the world, and when a movie is over, people get up and leave, at best they might even think about the movie for five to ten minutes, and then this experience is gone. I'll never forget the experience when I first saw Passion. I went to the Corvin movie. It was also full of people of different minds, different tastes and otherwise different interests, and when the film was over, no one stood up for a good 5-6 minutes. So everyone was sitting, and I think he felt the message that should be getting to people on Friday. So I wish to all of us that it wasn't just a public holiday when we didn't have to go to work, and not just this day, but really try to figure out at some level how to send this message to people. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-03-06-286	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I'll give the floor to Secretary Soltes for two minutes.
u2017-03-06-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say to Mr György Szilágyi that, on the one hand, thank you for the question that it would be good to have a real content for your great Friday or any other holiday. Obviously, instead of someone else, especially someone who might not be a believer, we can't do that. To show values, to show the value of Christianity for two thousand years, I think it is very important, and it is not by chance that we have introduced the Bible lesson or the ethics lesson that we can choose, and parents and children have chosen nearly 50-55 percent of all of this, so I think these are the steps that we can take to get closer to the thinking that I think will otherwise characterize all of us. That is what I said in the general debate that, as you get older, if I may say so, I will meet more and more people who are either due to a serious illness or for any other reason before they die. And here I may also reveal a life situation where an former socialist Member - I say without a name - was very seriously ill. I talked to him - it was quite a few years ago - and he did thank me for talking a little bit about Christianity in his very serious state of life, his very serious illness. So I'm sure this upbringing, this thinking can sooner or later go into people. If this is given space and opportunity, it will go into people, and yet another step is the declaration of a public holiday on Friday, which, on one side, again, I stress, is a great thing for believing and Christian people, but it gives a bit of the possibility of quieting down to all those who are not believers. And once again, there was no resurrection without suffering, said one of the members at the NGTT meeting. This applies to all people, believers and unbelievers alike. So I am sure that this message will also affect those who are non-believers, and in this I thank you very much for all the thoughts and suggestions expressed in the debate, and I say that we have now taken a huge step, if any, to vote together. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-06-288	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Congressman Sebestyén Cutter, Jobbik.
u2017-03-06-289	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Even in the general debate, my finger was very itchy to press a button; especially after Nándor Gúr's speech, and after István Ikotity's speech. I didn't hold back this time, I just pressed a button. Although I am a religious Catholic who exercises his religion, I will try to explain to you from a slightly objective point of view what the outcome of a genuine national consultation on this issue might have been. In the general debate, you were very sharp, and you did not say that both days should be a public holiday, but that the people should decide which day should be a public holiday. I have to disappoint him. If we had asked people this question and given them objective information about these two days, I am convinced that people would have chosen your grandpa. And why is that? I'll tell you that, too. One part is - we also forget that I am not sorry for the employers of large companies, how they are affected by the fact that it becomes a public holiday on Friday, this is a much more important issue than even taking this into account. The other question is, why am I convinced that the end result would have been Friday? First, let us look at what is happening in the country on 24 December! On December 24, life actually stops after 2:00 p.m. After 2 p.m., there are almost only those units or workplaces where continuous shifts are required, child protection specialist care, health care, let me not list them. After 3 p.m. public transport stops in rural cities. So it can be said on December 24 that it is almost half a public holiday. That's one objective argument. [[20.00]] The other objective argument. Consider that December 24 is followed by two public holidays: December 25 and December 26. In most cases, this falls on weekdays, so people already have two public holidays and half a public holiday. So from then on, if we had put this question to a normal social debate so that they could choose, either Friday or December 24, it would have been enveloped that they would not have chosen the 24th of December, the half of the public holiday, but the great Friday. By the way, I would say here what I did not say in the general debate, where our fellow Member Ikotity said that, in vain, if not a public holiday, people will still reach the crossroads. The only thing you forget is that we respect each other's religious beliefs. The crossroads should not fall in, but be prepared for the crossroads, and if it is a public holiday on Grand Friday, then believing Christian people have the time from morning to morning - otherwise the whole week is dedicated to this - to prepare for Grand Friday and then for the resurrection, but from morning onwards they must not be dealing with the daily robot, but they can prepare in spirit for Christ's death and the crossroads and the afternoon or evening. So I think that, both from a sacral point of view and from an objective point of view, the declaration of Great Friday as a public holiday is more appropriate and appropriate than that of 24 December. If we put this in parallel, and if we had put this issue into a social debate, perhaps since then - sorry for the confusion - there has been a turnaround in the ranks of the MSZP, they are no longer thinking on the basis of you or of you, but also on the basis of this. They were still thinking about it, or on the basis of it. [[Nándor Gúr: No, also on grounds!]] But if you look at the question either on a basis or on a basis, the vast majority of people would probably have decided whether it was an atheist or a Christian or a member of other denominations, so that it would be a public holiday. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-290	Thank you very much, Congressman Cut. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed and you have the opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity again, Mrs President. You have the floor.
u2017-03-06-291	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. I thank everyone for their comments, and I trust that tomorrow's amendment will be adopted by everyone. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-292	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mátrai. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/13472. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2017-03-06-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, CLXVIII 2011 on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. I would like to state the position of the Legislative Committee on the amendment of the Act; I would like to give my information as follows. The Legislative Committee discussed T/13472 on 2 March 2017. CLXVIII, already quoted. The Committee presented a bill amending the Act, which was accompanied by a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 33 votes in favour, i.e. a unanimous decision. The summarised amendment contains the amendments proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, which our committee has also supported. It also includes the Legislative Committee's own amendment proposal, which amended the entry into force of the provisions on the concept of drought in the light of the insurance contracts already concluded. The amended concept should therefore be put into effect in such a way that the amendment does not make it necessary to increase the insurance premium as a result of an increased risk due to the modification of insurance contracts and the extended concept. Insurance companies will therefore apply the concept of new, extended drought only from 2018, while the compensation scheme can already be applied in 2017 as it typically occurs in the middle of the year, after 15 June. Ladies and gentlemen, With new solutions, the agricultural government is making continuous efforts to increase the domestic agricultural risk management capability, the results of which can be monitored continuously, but sometimes it is worth correcting on the basis of practical experience. In view of this, on behalf of the committee, I ask that you support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-03-06-294	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, rapporteur for the appointed Enterprise Development Committee, within a three-minute time frame.
u2017-03-06-295	Thank you very much, Mr President; I can speak on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. The proposal was proposed by CLXVIII of 2011 on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production, which entered into force on 1 January 2012. Law, the so-called Mkk. A multi-layer amendment to the Act. At its meeting on 27 February 2017, the Committee on Agriculture discussed the draft, and the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate included additions to the bill submitted. In accordance with the provisions of the Company Tax Act in force from 1 January 2017, voluntary contributions by companies should also be included in the sources of the Compensation Fund. In the future, in addition to the support from the central budget, these grants and benefits are also considered agricultural risk management funds, allowing farmers not only to contribute to the operation of the national ice prevention system. Another important change is the fact that the activity to create this system is a public task if the activity is carried out by a transparent organisation. In addition, technical changes are included in the amending proposal, with which the draft will be supported by the Committee on Agriculture. An amendment, the content of which was not supported by the Committee, which is currently not timely, has also been tabled. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-06-296	I would like to thank Mr Balázs Győrffy, rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture, for presenting the Committee's majority opinion; and I would like to give the floor to Mr Gábor István Harangozó, who will present the Committee's minority opinion within a three-minute time frame.
u2017-03-06-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, There is a proposal for an amendment that has not actually been debated at the committee meeting either, that the steps that have been taken in this package of amendments must be taken and that they can substantially improve the system of agricultural compensation. Which is why I must now give a minority opinion, not what has been included in the proposal, but what has not been included in the proposal. After all, this package of proposals has come before the House with no less ambition than to present new instruments, new solutions to farmers, and first to the House, and then to accept this, by Parliament, give farmers a new opportunity, which can significantly improve their management security. One of the main problems of agricultural production is that it is extremely exposed to the weather, and at present the instruments have served, through two pillars, the purpose of compensating this on this basis, as a result of major damage caused by the weather change. [[20.10]] At the same time, in addition to the risks arising from the variability of nature, there are other significant economic, commercial and exchange rate risks, and we were very much hoping that what the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared, has been discussed with the profession in several rounds, that it will finally be brought before the House, that a new proposal will be drawn up for these economic risks and income risks, and that we can now adopt this proposal. Because today, when the Russian embargo affects the possibilities of selling Hungarian agriculture, when we face a lot of global economic risks every day, a system of income stabilisation that is made possible by the new EU legislation, the Hungarian government, negotiated with Brussels, has also integrated this into the rural development programme, so that support and opportunity can be given in Hungary, it would be absolutely timely that, if we were to apply this law, this new instrument should be introduced. And unfortunately, to this day, I still don't see why this didn't happen. I have tabled the amendments in this regard to the Committee, but it has not received the support. I hope that this can change during the debate, and honourable Members will support the introduction of this new pillar. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-06-298	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would like to ask who would like to take the opportunity to speak. I give the floor first to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2017-03-06-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. As we have already said in the debate and in the committee debate, the Jobbik faction supports the proposal before us, which indeed contains several forward-looking elements. We didn't even judge them. I would also like to note that it would indeed be good for a system of income stabilisation to be developed, not only in relation to weather risks. Especially if Brussels has been an opportunity to do so since 2017. I think that many debates and, more importantly, the inconvenience and often impossible situation of many farming families would be avoided by not having to talk about watermelons, cherry, grapes, apples here in Parliament, but also by developing a system. I stress that, in particular, if there is already an opportunity for this to happen in the European Union. I trusted him, too, and we all hoped that this proposal could have been submitted to the Parliament in the framework of this legislation. But I really hope that we will get a meaningful answer from the Secretary of State, when, if not now, such a proposal can come. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-300	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó, MSZP.
u2017-03-06-301	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to add to what my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar has said in so far as such a proposal has been included, because, after all, what the government has not submitted, I have submitted it myself; the fellow Members of the Fidesz voted down the proposal which was otherwise supported and cherished by their own government and also by the wallet. And that is why I did not say it in the minority opinion, because that part of it was not said either in the debate on the amendments. But then I would like to say that there is only one reason for this, not that there is no need for such a fund, not that there is no money for it, because the money is there, because the previous rules, which we are changing correctly now, were so strict that significant money was accumulated in this fund, and the amendments that we are proposing now actually open this fund from above. So if the money runs out and there is a need for a more serious intervention, then the government can do so on its own authority, based on an individual decision. So there really is no obstacle to this being introduced now, apart from the need to have an appropriate institutional background for such an income stabilisation fund to work. I am convinced that there is no other reason why this will not be introduced now than that the central waterhead led by János Lázár practically assigned to it the institutional structure that would be suitable for introducing and managing this new fund. And in fact, with the Bureau of Agriculture and Rural Development being placed under them, it is not even ensured how the existing systems and services will work, how the smooth transition will be; there are already problems with payments and, for the time being, it seems that these existing tasks cannot be dealt with by the new system or by this changeover period. And obviously, under these circumstances, they wouldn't dare set up such a new fund. We, when they touched this transformation, also said that it is irresponsible at this time of year to complete the transformation of this system and to reshape it to a new ministry. If there was such a government intention, it could have been done in several steps, scheduledly, and then there would be no chaos like that now, and it would have been possible to plan how to ensure the institutional conditions for the introduction of a truly important new instrument in the face of such a transition. This is specifically a matter of intention and good governance. The problem here is that, on the part of the portfolio, I see that the intention has been done, but from good governance, the performance that this government has put on the table is not a good governance, but rather a chaos, not only in the field of agriculture, but also in the area of their activities in the whole region. And I have to say that as long as agriculture has something to do with it, although the agricultural portfolio is becoming increasingly heavy, we are really getting the Minister of Agriculture without a wallet, because all the important parts are being outsourced from under it, the parts that are being outsourced to the Prime Minister's Office, led by János Lázár, are becoming increasingly unclaimed, not to say that they are finding a new farmer. And as if it were not important for this government to reorganize the Hungarian countryside, the villages, by means of economic development tools, institutional, structural transformations, or changes to education, so that it reaches out to the life of the countryside in such a way that it gives impetus and help in the reorganization of rural life, but rather these institutional wars, so that the distribution of these funds can be controlled by who will disposal it and, if necessary, benefit from it. I don't think that's a good direction, and I'm really sorry that a good initiative has fallen victim to this institutional or inter-ministerial war. That's why we're not happy about this. And I would just like to encourage Mr Secretary of State and the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, who is present here, to lobby the government for this income compensation system, this new fund, this third pillar, to be introduced as soon as possible and to put order in the fragmented governance institutional context. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-03-06-302	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-03-06-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise you that I will respond very briefly, all the more so, because there is broad, consensual support unfolding. I am very pleased that only farmers will see the benefits of this in the future, and I very much hope that we will be able to adopt this law with broad support tomorrow. Let me tell my fellow Members about the income stabilisation instrument that the FM remains open to the income stabilisation instrument and that, in order to introduce the instrument, we will continue to work on the concept at expert level, and this work and this tool has not been rejected, but we would simply like to develop at a level that can truly serve the interests of the Hungarian economic society at the highest level. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[20.20]]
u2017-03-06-304	Thank you, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr Sebestyén Vágó from the Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame: å Can we slowly forget about the freedom of the press? Or is Viktor Orbán's money with the cashier named Lawrence? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-06-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. When I was a student, I was very fond of the box poems, and I thought that if we started the day with Lukárin Mészáros and we dedicated this day to discussing interpellations and immediate questions, we should close it properly and deal with his affairs in a post-scheduled speech. That is why I would like to talk about the state of the press and, above all, the situation of the rural press. We know very well that in October last year, in mid-October, Opimus Press Zrt. belongs to Lőrinc Mészáros. He bought Mediaworks Zrt., and became the owner of, among other things, eight county newspapers, directly or indirectly, under the control of the Prime Minister and the government. Then Mediaworks bought the Pannon Lapok company, so the majority of the rural publishing was under the supervision of the Prime Minister, or rather the Prime Minister's cashier, Lőrinc Mészáros. Of course, we know the dynamism of such processes, they probably won't stop until they put their hands on the whole market. This closes the circle: manual control and complete distorted transformation on public media, we experience this mainly at the Hungarian 1st, transformed into HírTV2 and completely transformed into the government's slogan, distorted slogan at Magyar 1, or we can watch the national commercial and news channels and news portals marked with Vajna-Habony pair, as well as the national and county newspapers with Lőrinc Mészáros, which have come to a similar fate. Of course, we can also see, even talking about the national press, how commercial media under the authority of these two gentlemen settle on the lives of rural people, how very often they try to achieve by dictatorial means that broadcasters can no longer include almost other channels in their repertoire and optional channels, perhaps only in very expensive packages, as in those media where the authority of these two gentlemen in quotes can be seen. Of course, I understand the motivation behind these processes. In part, learning from what the then Orbán government had to live through in 2002 during the elections, how left-wing and liberal media overweights led to their defeat; experiencing this and learning from it, they would like to avoid it, and I do not want the opposition to have a media weight in the country, but unfortunately, they were a little out of line, and what we are experiencing and what we are seeing now is the creation of an opinion directory in the entire Hungarian information market. Our election campaign and our election program also included the opening of the East. The government is now doing this in a distorted and completely different way. Because when we were thinking about opening up to the east, we did not mean that for Hungary, North Korea should be the model for setting up the state. We did not mean that the aim should be to eliminate the whole discussion and freedom of the press, but rather to establish fruitful relations with countries in the Middle East and Asia. But that's not what we're experiencing right now. Unfortunately, we are now beginning to experience what we are experiencing in this Asian country, the dictatorship of North Korea, that they will be slowly restricting their Internet content and that they will not be able to access the content that is attacking the government, possibly the person of Viktor Orbán, and criticising his activities. We know the story about the little ball. A lot of us grew up on this. We can slowly see that the government, Viktor Orbán and Lőrinc Mészáros act like little balls, they take everything, the press and the country papers. Let's just learn from the end of this story. Little ball also took the shepherd who was having bacon with his knife, and we know how it ended, and as a result of the knife, the little ball exploded. Therefore, I would warn the government that they will be caught up with the 2018 election, the victory of Jobbik and the accountability led by Gábor Vona, as the little ball was caught up with this young man's knife. We're waiting for this time to be cleared, because it's gonna happen. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-06-306	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative Márta Demeter has applied for a post-meeting speech:. When will the non-active members of the Honvéd Health Insurance Fund be compensated? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-03-06-307	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As memorable, in 2015, with the scandalous bankruptcy of the Buda-Cash Broker house, more than 27,000 members of the Honvéd Health Fund suffered material damage. Soldiers, national security and law enforcement workers and defense workers who have suffered such damage that they have lost their health savings with the bankruptcy of the Buda-Cash Broker House. More than a year and a half had been required and for a year and a half, written, oral questions, committee meetings and countless proposals for resolutions from the opposition, so that the government would start to deal with the matter at all. It was apparent that the Information Office started some kind of compensation in the summer of 2016 and followed by the sudden realization of both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence that, if nothing else, it must do something for the people who have served the security of Hungary for decades or still serve the security of Hungary. As we know, many active members have suffered damage, who are currently serving in the Hungarian Defence Forces or law enforcement agencies. However, we must mention that we are talking about over 4,000 members who have been retired. We remember that the government deprived them of their service pension, and that they are currently only entitled to service benefits, and that pensioners are not subject to the kind of compensation that the government marked very hard in the form of all kinds of regulations or in the context of the HM order, so it is still a lower place. I think that it is unacceptable to discriminate against people who have served the safety of Hungary for decades and, by the way, have already retired on 5 March 2015, i.e. before the fall of the Buda-Cash Broker house and the Honvéd Health Fund lost money in this way. The total compensation amount would amount to HUF 1.8 billion. So it would cost 1.8 billion forints that more than 27 thousand people... - people who even guarantee public security on a daily basis, people who have worked and worked in the Hungarian Defence Corps or in the national security services. As I mentioned, this was a health-care, health-preservation savings, so it is not possible to say that the law enforcement agencies and the Hungarian Army were trading with this savings. Clearly, they lost it without their own fault. [[20.30]] And let's see what the circumstances are, because they are working under enormous pressure both in the police force and in the Hungarian Defence Service, because the missionary engagements and the circumstances that have existed in the Hungarian Defence Service have also been a very strain, and that is precisely why I felt it was an outrage that it took a year and a half to make any of this happen. However, it is unacceptable for former pensioners and pensioners to be left out of this compensation, but it is simply not possible for the government to do so by more than four thousand people to discriminate against them. Therefore, I have tabled today a proposal for a decision to remedy this type of discrimination. This would therefore apply to retired soldiers, defence workers, service pensioners from law enforcement bodies and to all injured members who were in service with the organisations concerned at any time before 5 March 2015. So I will ask my fellow Members to support this proposal, because I believe that those who have spent decades and many years in the service of the country do deserve to be treated at least the same way, and to have their health savings back the same way as the active members. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-06-308	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-municipal speech: there is no Source, there is withdrawal and there is a hit-and-run. What about you, Rabaköz? It's an address. You have the floor within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-03-06-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Over the past few years, I have continued to travel around the countryside, which I have already been used to by citizens, especially during the Raba, because this is, after all, the constituency where I started, and where I hope to run for next year's elections, and I feel it is my dog's duty to listen to them and speak for them. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the Member of Parliament of the region, who, in this term - we are talking about Alpár Gyopáros, in case anyone does not know - has 26 speeches and 26 individual motions, from which I looked, except for the self-polishing of the expressway, zero questions deal with his constituency. I am, of course, trying to take this task seriously in his place, and, as I have already said, I am constantly walking around the constituency, where I am trying to talk to as many as possible, listen to them and then interpret their problems. Let's start with the situation on the roads, because maybe that's the topic everyone's saying without exception. Having examined the three most important road parameters, we can see that Győr-Moson-Sopron County and, above all, the area between Raba in the country after Heves County has the second worst road network, and as we come down from motorways or motorways, everyone can experience this, that the utility and quality of the road is falling at once. I don't have to tell you how many other problems this entails, and it would be good to have a road network of at least the same quality as our economic strength in our county, I think it makes us absolutely right. The mayors said that they were glad that physical education was taken more seriously by the government, at least in words, and increased the number of hours required, but it would also be good if, especially for smaller settlements, it were to provide an opportunity for this physical education to take place and not for some medieval conditions to receive students when doing this compulsory activity. Without exception, the municipalities said that the assessment of the TOP and VP applications has been delayed for almost a year, and in some cases it has been a year, and that there has been no news of whether these applications have been won at all, and of when they can be implemented, we really know nothing. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you look at this speech, that he will not be able to deliver so much either, if he has timed all this for the campaign, it will be a lot, not to mention that these applications will have to be managed by the municipalities and the various bodies, and should be carried out. So they've caused quite a lot of trouble by timing all the funds and all the new renovations or new investments to be delivered in the campaign. In a number of settlements it is lamented that, at the time of the privatisation of the state lands, there was a state land on the border of the settlement, but they could not start the land auction. I do not understand why it was a problem for the government to start a local government and, above all, for a public purpose... these municipalities did not ask for it for free, they wanted to participate in the bid, they could buy land and they could have done what was important for the locality, whether it was the opening of a new street or the creation of an industrial park or countless other local things. And it is feared that they are hiding it now, but virtually everyone knows that the forests will be the next victim of the great privatization wave, since they have already started to scale these forests with companies. In this way, these municipalities will predict through me that if this really happens and you will be able to rid the Hungarian nation of the forest assets, then at least there will be an opportunity to take into account the needs of the municipalities. There have also been many complaints about the allocation of hunting and fishing rights, as these events took place this year and during the last year. In a number of cases, the local interest, the local people's interests are damaged. I put these on the table of the competent minister all the time, supported by documents, of course. I am very sorry that these have received meaningless answers and dissuading answers. It's not for me, because I'm a member of the opposition, and I'm paid for it, and it's my job to bear the fact that you don't really answer anything, but it would have been appropriate for the people involved. I could also talk about the lack of a nursing home, a number of settlements would like to set up a similar institution. Also, the humiliating salary of municipal employees has often been mentioned. I hope I get a meaningful answer to that. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2017-03-06-310	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 20:37 p.m.]]
