u2017-05-18-0	Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome. The 27th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Móring József will help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who is monitoring our work today. The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2018 will follow. The bill is T/15381. Opinion of the State Audit Office T/15381/10. can be found on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would ask Mrs Loránt Hegedűs to explain the distribution of the time frame available today for the factions.
u2017-05-18-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 14-hour timeframe is divided into 288 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 132 minutes for the KDNP Group, 156 minutes for the MSZP Group, 144 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 86 minutes for the LMP Group and 34 minutes for the independent Members.
u2017-05-18-2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The opening speech, the speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets, and the speeches by the keynote speaker and their representatives took place at the beginning of the general debate yesterday. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available today. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 4 p.m. today. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. This means that Congressman Péter Csizi is the first to take the floor.
u2017-05-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. It is an honor to be the first to speak on the second day of the debate on the 2018 budget, as this is the moment when we have already passed a debate day, we know the structure of the budget, we know its content, its objectives, and we have already heard comments from the opposition benches on which it is worth responding. Today's debate will continue for a long time, and there will be different arguments and arguments, but I would like to say from yesterday's lesson that the 2018 budget is probably the greatest result and perhaps its main message if we have to sum up in a sentence that Hungary is successfully behind the crisis in a way that can be said thanks to its economic policy over the past six years. This is a budget that is not about the past, it is about the mistakes of the past, it is about the future, and it is about a budget that creates a Hungary that protects our values acquired in recent years and gives the future a foundation that I think we all want to provide together for our children and grandchildren. The values of the past period, which are here in the budget numbers, mean different things to everyone. I would like, of course, to highlight, in particular, the reduction in overhead costs, family tax incentives and wage increases, including career models. However, I will devote a significant part of my speech to another kind of value, a value on which Hungary is spending a great deal of money, almost 20 percent more in this material than in previous years. However, this is a value that cannot be measured in money, and this is public security, a sense of security and the protection of the citizens of Hungary, public security as a value. As an MP in Pécs, I met a Belgian gentleman at the market in Pécs the other day. This Belgian gentleman came to me, we started talking. He said that he lived in Hungary for nearly six months, replaced Antwerp with Hungary and Pécs, and started a whole new life in Hungary. I asked you why you're doing this, what's the basis for your decision. He looked around and said, "I see all these people here, and I see that all these people have one thing in common?" I asked them what they had in common. It's that they feel safe. Security is a value that he finds only in Hungary today, since he said that he would not dare to spend more than ten minutes in a large medium like the Vásártér in Pécs, gathering tens of thousands of people on Sundays. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Don't be ridiculous.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure our security, a number of measures are also in place in the 2018 budget. Let's not go off without saying anything about the budget debates over the last few years. I remember very well when, a little cynically, ironically, the opposition representatives, the opposition factions tabled amendments to the interests of their own political goals that drew items that were intended to create and serve Hungarian public security. However, in today's debate, it is necessary to recall the period five years ago when many Members joked about budget support to the Counter-Terrorism Centre. I remember when a representative of Jobbik, who was still considered a national emotion, would have made the entire annual budget of the Counter-Terrorism Centre equal to zero with his amending proposal for their own interests, for their own purposes. I am pleased that we no longer see such amendments today, and I am pleased that today there is no debate between us in the fact that both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, as well as their respective and related bodies, should not be fooled about, that the resources necessary for their operation should not be subject to individual political objectives, but should be raised practically all resources, and the budgetary resources for the protection of Hungarian internal and our borders should be constantly increased compared to our opportunity. To this end, I would first like to highlight the introduction of a career scheme for law enforcement workers and the associated wage developments. By 2019, the salary of law enforcement workers will increase by another 5 percent each year, and now we can see in the bill before us that the government will allocate HUF 13.5 billion for this purpose by 2018. If we look at the wages of law enforcement workers between 2016 and 2019, we can see that during this period we have made an unprecedented 50 percent wage increase, a 50 percent wage increase from 2019 onwards. This 50 percent increase affects police officers, firefighters and, of course, soldiers. [[8.10]] It is also important to mention that the budget, and also the government's primary objective, is to further strengthen public security and public order, including, to a significant extent, strengthening our borders and border protection. When we discuss the 2018 budget and its primarily security policy, we cannot go without saying the fact that the migration crisis has been going on for two years, and this migration crisis is a huge mass of people for the Hungarian border protection system, and it also puts enormous pressure on the Hungarian border protection system, which, of course, also places a specific task on the organisations under the control of the Ministry of Interior. In order to protect the borders, the police, the national defence, the Immigration and Asylum Office will be given a significant budget surplus in order to deal with the migration crisis, the strong and effective work we have experienced from them over the past year and a half. It should be pointed out that, in addition to chapter appropriations, expenditure related to the management of mass immigration will be provided by the government with an additional HUF 100 billion for the purpose of carrying out and developing the tasks related to immigration by 2018, including the development of the professional staff of the police. But it is important to note that, in addition to the appropriations, the government's approval, as has already been done, will allow the appropriations to be exceeded in the future, which will also provide the Government of Hungary with an immediate response to any further expenditure that may be incurred. It is important to note that, in addition to personal development, the budget also provides additional resources for the acquisition of assets. We can see that new car purchases, new technical equipment are expected for both the defence and the police, and we can and can see the extra support for organisations that provide protection to Hungary, which constantly innovates the challenge of the age and which is resistant to new challenges - I am thinking here in particular to protect against cyber attacks. Overall, it can be concluded that anti-terrorist measures will also receive special support in the forthcoming legislative amendment and in the proposal for a budget amendment. The development of the National Security Service represents an additional HUF 1.5 billion budget line. It is important to note that the NSA's purpose is to coordinate the work of national security, law enforcement and law enforcement agencies, and to provide their work with a background work, which, according to today's challenges, can be one of the most important protections, as we have often discussed in other debates, that, among the security measures of the time, we should be at the forefront of the competition of intelligence, we are living in the world of intelligence competition, and therefore the Hungarian government contributes to supporting the operation of the National Security Service through the budget; as it also contributes to the work of the Counter-Terrorism Centre with additional resources. These will all mean procurement of assets which, in addition to border protection, as I have already said, will also protect Hungary from new challenges. It is also important to mention TIBEK, the Counter-Terrorism Information and Crime Analysis Centre. TIBEK will carry out the collection and analysis of data on terrorism, organised crime. We are talking about a new system that we created last year, and besides the operation of this system, the 2018 budget also provides for its development and expansion. I would like to draw attention to the development of the Passenger Data Information Unit; this is basically what handles the data of passengers arriving in and departing from Hungary, so that you can know exactly who comes into our country, how much time they spend here and when they leave. I also feel it is important that we extend this activity to both land and water traffic. This is also a new area that I have already mentioned, which presents new challenges, which can only be achieved in addition to the development of our electronic and IT systems, and I am pleased that it will receive special support from the government. In summary, it can be seen that almost 20 percent more resources are available for public security compared to 2017, a total of HUF 514 billion, which is a virtually HUF 100 billion increase compared to last year. Ladies and gentlemen, With these thoughts I will launch today's debate, and I hope that - although we will not agree on a lot of things, although there will be great debates between us on some items, but public security will not be the area in which we will have political and political debates in the coming hours. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-4	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2017-05-18-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal for a budget law before us is a proposal for a fiscal law for injustice and corruption. This bill is unfair primarily because it preserves the tragic, unbearable social inequality that your governance has magnified in Hungary. This budget is unfair, because it is based on an absolutely amazing income and tax policy, a policy that gives the biggest tax relief to businesses, multinationals, and increases the burden on the smallest enterprises, and overtaxes them. This budget is unfair, because in the case of workers, it gives the richest people the most tax incentives and drastically increased the tax on the least earners, from 0 to 16 percent of the minimum wage, of which 1 percentage point has now been graciously released. This budget is therefore unfair, because it preserves this wealth and income gap, which you have increased to an unbearable extent in Hungary. And they also have a budget for corruption, because there is almost no EU or state expenditure, no public procurement that does not involve your relatives, family members, friends and business partners. While we're discussing the budget, the theft takes place without delay. If you like stolen money, you steal everything that's dear to you; you steal TVs, you steal radios, you steal some of the printed and written press; what you don't like and you eliminate straight away; if you have to, you steal castles; if you have to, you steal the lakes; if you have to, you steal half of the Lake Balaton; if you have to, you steal small trains; if you have to, you steal banks, and God knows what. The World Swimming Championship will be in a few weeks, and we regret that it will not be in a few days, because the budget originally designed for HUF 24 billion will be increased by hundreds of millions every week, and now it will reach 140 billion. That's what's going on in the country. [[8.20]] This is the budget of injustice and corruption, but we could say that although the price is terrible, it is perhaps worth it somewhere, because at least the economy is gaining strength, economic growth is starting to soar. And if you look at the numbers superficially, you could even say that at a terrible price, at the cost of increasing poverty and emigration, but you have started economic growth. But this is only so if you look at the numbers superficially. After all, here are the recent figures, the growth of the Hungarian economy slightly, but it exceeded 4 percent. In itself, this is a welcome news, even because it allows us to pay the pension premium, the pension premium for economic growth, which has been decided by the majority of socialist Members in this Parliament, but your economic policy has not so far allowed pensioners to enjoy the results of economic growth in the form of a pension premium. So there's a bright side. But at the same time, if we look at international comparisons, we see that this 4.1 percent again, as has been the case in recent years, is below the growth rate of regional competitors, other countries and regional countries. Because the Hungarian economy here in Central and Eastern Europe is certainly one of the driving forces, and however beautiful this 4.1 percent seems at first glance, the truth is that again, again, not for the first time, the Romanian economy is the peak holder. Compared to its regional competitors, Romania, the Baltic States, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland, the Hungarian economy is constantly increasing its backwards, as the pace of economic growth is falling below those countries. We used to be top riders, and now we're in this region. This is due to your economic policy, unfortunately. Moreover, this economic growth does not even show the enormous internal strength of the Hungarian economy; this economic growth we produce in Hungary is largely due to the forced drawdown of EU funds. If EU funds were taken out of the economy, then suddenly a very modest, struggling economy would remain. This is why your policy is completely incomprehensible when, constantly seeking enemies, you have found enemies in the Union which is the most important source of the growth rate of the Hungarian economy. It's your most important source. But that's what you guys are like. You always need an enemy. If there's any peace in this country, if there's peace in this country, then you need to create a little tension right now, start a war to talk about it, not how much you're stealing. They are now attacking Brussels, with a completely stupid campaign, making a series of mistakes so far. A few years ago, Viktor Orbán spoke proudly and proudly of salesmen and distributed cokes in relation to the politicians of the European Union and the Union in general, so Hungary ran into a slap in the face, thanks to Viktor Orbán's policy. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the disregard of politics, European values, civil society organisations, freedoms and freedom of expression that you are carrying out here in Hungary has already broken the guarantee in the European Union at a level that even the significant representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP party family have refused your policy. The situation that you're doing is untenable, and it stinks to them, too. So you are pursuing a completely wrong policy, attacking the organization that is the main source of economic growth in Hungary, and in Hungary, you are trying absolutely amazingly to leverage all economic assets, all the good that can only be privatised, while constantly restricting the work and work of organisations, the press that are still independent of you in Hungary today. So justice must be done. This policy must be reversed to the very core. It is quite clear, clearly, that this corruption machine that you have created must be abolished. But in addition to that, the world which in Hungary means that only the wealthy have a decent life, and those who earn little live in in inhumane conditions, well, this world must be abolished. Indeed, in order to give to those who earn little, we can give to those who have no income from work, so that we can raise the family allowance, we need to tax those who earn the most in the country and live a carefree life. Those who earn more than 1 million forints a month have to pay more taxes. Indeed, those who have more than HUF 100 million in wealth have to pay more taxes. Indeed, more taxes have to be paid to those who have more than 100 hectares of land. Dear House, In this way, and in this way, justice will be done. This budget, which does not support economic growth, strengthens social injustices, we do not support the budget of injustice and corruption. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-18-6	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi.
u2017-05-18-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Before I turn to what I have to say, I am forced to respond, reflect on some of the strong words of my fellow Member, Mr Burány, about the perspiration without evidence, about what the Fidesz-KDNP government has stolen. I would like to remind my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Burány, and my fellow Members sitting next to him, as well as the members of the MSZP, that you have proven to have stolen 160 billion of metro 4 during the period of the Gyurcsány government and with the help of the Gyurcsány family - then they did not yell at the mob government - you have proven to have stolen 18 billion by building the EMIR system. On bad economic policy, let me just say that by 2010, you sent Hungary to the level of Greece, rather than competing with the European Union average, rather than competing with the Visegrád countries in terms of economic growth, but rather sinking Hungary to the level of Greece. Dear Congressman Burány, If we are talking about wealth and not wealth: if you think and say that the family tax system that we have built in recent years is helping the wealthy, then I think this is a huge misunderstanding of the social policy of the Hungarian government. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Act is a very important framework for the state and citizens, it is of crucial importance for economic processes and the state sector, for the lives of Hungarian families. The proposed budget law for 2018 identifies a stable and predictable framework for us. It will continue or strengthen processes that have been successfully launched by the civilian government in recent years since 2010. For the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, the most important priority is the situation of Hungarian families, the means of family support of the budget and their financial coverage. On this basis, the most important thing is that next year's budget ensures that in 2018 much more money will remain with families than in the previous year. [[8.30]] Dear House, In recent years, we have taken a number of measures to strengthen families. We have introduced a reduction of the rent, we have launched an Erzsébet programme, we have established a family tax system, we have extended tax relief for children, we have re-stabilized the system of children and children, which the MSZP government has destroyed during the 8 years of governance, we have introduced the extra child, we have extended the free children's meals and we have introduced a free textbook system. This series of measures helped Hungarian families for thousands of billion HUF. Next year's budget is a guarantee that we will not only preserve these measures, but also strengthen them and expand them. Allow me to give concrete support to the increase in the resources of the family support system. We will spend some 1900 billion forints next year, about 8 percent more than this year, about 140 billion forints. This amounts to twice the amount compared to 2010. Most of the total spending on families, more than one third, is spent on family support cash benefits and benefits such as baby care, ged, family allowance, children. This total amounts to approximately HUF 640 billion, which is nearly 5 percent higher than last year, by HUF 30 billion. The sum of the various tax incentives for families is approximately HUF 360 billion, which will be almost 14 percent higher than in 2017. This highlights the amount spent on family tax relief, which increases by HUF 39 billion. It should be pointed out that the proportion of work-based benefits for families will increase from 54 per cent to 58 per cent next year and will decrease to 42 per cent. The various services that support families - kindergarten, nursery, child welfare, protective services, free meals - more than twice the HUF 183 billion in 2010 and HUF 40-50 billion more than the 2017 source, over HUF 400 billion. In particular, it should be pointed out that the amount spent on day care, which will be transformed from 2017 onwards, will increase almost two and a halffold to nearly HUF 37 billion compared to HUF 16.5 billion in 2017. In 2018, more than HUF 5 billion is available for children's camping under the Erzsébet programme, and next year we will spend HUF 8.5 billion on the infrastructure development of the Zánka and Fonyódliget camps. This represents a total of HUF 13 billion in resources. The amount spent on housing subsidies, the home creation programme, is also increasing, compared to HUF 211 billion this year, we are already spending HUF 226 billion, HUF 15 billion more on helping families with children to build homes. The budget for the , Women's 40, or grandmother's retirement programme will increase by HUF 26 billion to HUF 260 billion. The budget for 2018 is also the budget of young people, and the funds available for the national talent programme will be added to this year's HUF 2.8 billion budget, so in 2018 more than HUF 3.1 billion will be available to support the Hungarian and cross-border talent programs. Among the new measures, we should also mention the acquisition of the first successful language exam for young people; the acquisition of the free language exam is supported by HUF 2.6 billion in the 2018 budget and we would also like to support the acquisition of a free driving licence for young people. Family taxation provides significant help to over a million families. Next year, you can expect family tax relief for children in addition to work; about 130,000 families with the lowest income still do not have to pay taxes. Next year, the tax relief for families with two children will continue to increase, with an increase of 35 thousand forints per month from January 2018 compared to 2010 and 420 thousand forints per year for families with two children, with an increase of 5 thousand forints per month compared to 2017. Hundreds of thousands of families will be left with more money thanks to wage increases. The minimum wage, the minimum wage and the minimum wage for skilled workers will increase in 2018, and a number of wage increases will continue in the public sector. The wages of nurses, paramedics, higher education workers, social workers, nursery children, the wages of soldiers and police officers continue to increase; the teachers' parents will have another increase this autumn. They were named by Sándor Burány, the wealthy in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year, there will be a first-married discount, with which in two years there will be a total of 120 thousand forints more than the young married couple. Since last year, young couples can benefit from the family tax and contribution allowance. So, in the form of a tax benefit, we recognise marriage and childbearing at the same time. The government provides maternity support to the parents of Hungarian children born abroad, which concerns about 10,000 babies born in foreign countries, and will be a HUF 640 million expenditure next year. The child care fee, the maximum gross amount of the gyed, will increase to HUF 193 200 gross and HUF 144 900 net by an additional 8 percent increase in the minimum wage for 2018, thus increasing the gross and more than twice the net amount by nearly 90 percent compared to 2010. The renewable cradle system is supported by the government to an unprecedented extent, as the public support of the institutional day care cradle, mini cradle, will increase almost two and a half times next year thanks to task-based funding. In addition, HUF 1.5 billion is available for the establishment of a mini-cradle in Hungary. There will also be an increase in the support of work crèches, more than double in non-profit organizations, and almost 20% in for-profit organizations. Next year, we will help families with free children's meals, from 74 billion this year to 79.3 billion forints, so more children can eat for free. In particular, institutional children's food resources increase from HUF 67.2 billion to HUF 72.6 billion, i.e. by more than 8 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, This means that next year the government will spend nearly three times the amount of money on free children's meals compared to 2010, and more than 320 thousand children can get free meals in our institutions three times a day. More families will be affected by free textbook care. From the next academic year, all students in the sixth grade will receive the textbook free of charge. It saves families thousands more. The government has also decided to give students of each grade free textbooks in the future. By reducing the VAT on the most important foods, families have also been able to save up so far. In 2018, further tax cuts will help families to keep more money at home. [[8.40]] Our aim is, therefore, to minimise tax on the most important food for families. Therefore, next year, the VAT on pigs, eggs, milk and poultry will be reduced to 5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me now talk about the larger family, the Hungarian nation, in the area of national policy, after the Hungarian families, a few sentences, for a few thoughts. In recent years, there have also been radically positive changes in this area, which will be further strengthened by the 2018 budget. In next year's draft budget law, the national political resources of the various wallets will rise to HUF 56.5 billion. This means that the amount transferred to national policy will be about tripled in 2018 compared to 2010. Let me highlight some of the most important issues. In support of the joint development tasks of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and Transcarpathia, we will spend HUF 850 million to support national policy activities, HUF 8.5 billion to support the economic development programme along the border of Vojvodina, HUF 7.5 billion to support the economic development strategy in Transcarpathia, HUF 5.1 billion to support economic development programmes in Croatia and Muravid region, while the budget will spend HUF 1-1 billion to launch the economic development strategy in Transylvania and Upper Hungary. I would like to highlight and underline the limitless programme that in the following year, HUF 2 billion will be available for the mother institutions and our children and students in the motherland, so that they can get to know our Hungarian communities across the border. The Hungarian government will use HUF 24.7 billion to support national political support at Bethlen Gábor Fund, and another important area would be highlighted: the Hungarian government will spend HUF 8.6 billion to support the institutions of national importance in the following year. We believe that this kind of paradigm shift in the field of national policy is exemplary, not only in words, but also in the provision of concrete budgetary resources, which will now devote significant resources not only to culture, not only for religious purposes, not only to our Hungarian civil society organisations, not only to our Hungarian institutions, but also to economic development, as one of the most important strategic directions, to the preservation and future of our Hungarian communities across the border. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of all these facts and arguments, that, therefore, we will devote significant extra resources to the Hungarian family support system, to the support of Hungarian families, as well as to the achievement of national policy goals, we will use significant extra resources, and I would ask with respect that our opposition fellow Members and opposition groups support this budget, the adoption of this budget. The KDNP faction supports and proposes to adopt this budget for 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana.
u2017-05-18-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Loud promises, radically opposite steps - this is how we can describe in short the seven years that have passed from the administration of Fidesz. This is true in almost all areas of life. I am trying to highlight this by presenting part of my 66 budget amendments tabled yesterday. At the time when one presents these amendments, it is also worth identifying where we would be regrouping, since we have been paying attention in the Jobbik faction to submit sound proposals from this point of view. But I think the most remarkable example is the operation of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office. There is plenty of resources available that could be used for much more meaningful and useful purposes. This is where I think first of all about the tasks related to government communication and consultation, although, overall, it can be said that it is a useless Ministry in the case of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, at least from the perspective of voters, Hungarians. Obviously, from the government's side, that's not true, because running your propaganda machine is the most important thing in terms of their governance. However, we can see and perceive that serious billions of people are going for meaningless purposes, as they are now, this is what is happening in the context of the consultation, where they are asking citizens questions on which it is quite clear that everyone is giving the same answer, so that sane people are obviously not going to face these issues, but spending so many billion forints on them, I think it is absolutely amazing, and unfortunately we can see that in the 2018 budget, 20 billion forints are planned for such purposes in the Ministry led by Antal Rogán. In the meantime, on the other hand, we can see that nothing is being done against the depopulation of the villages, the countryside, and, of course, in the spirit of fairness, I say that it is clearly impossible to stop or reverse this process in a year or two, but we can sense - and I say this not only in my own name, but also in the name of small-town mayors and Hungarians living in villages - that they do not even perceive the intention of the government to reverse this process and take meaningful steps against the depopulation of small settlements. For example, this is a particularly important problem in Vas County, because the constituency where I started in 2010 and 14 and I will start again next year is a small village area. So here it is particularly important to take serious steps to at least stop this process and then move up the stairs. I mean, if I talk to the mayors, I talk to people who live in these settlements, they always show the question of local roads, sidewalks, job opportunities, especially their absence, and health problems. I would like to refer here to the fact that I have always considered the case of the hospital in Körmend to be my concern, that over the past years we have fought for the restoration of obstetric gynecology and for the restoration of active internal medicine, and that we will continue to do so, because it is a matter of particular importance for the region. Now, in the context of the announcement of the TOP applications, they are also trying to make a success propaganda, and there is no accusation that my speech is not constructive, of course I acknowledge that there are decisions, and as a result, there will be improvements that are really forward-looking, but unfortunately, we can see that the most important role played here when these funds were distributed. Not to mention the fact that the larger settlements have benefited again, and small settlements and villages have also been put in the background in this respect. In this spirit, I have tried to submit my amendments, and I would like first of all to present the road improvements, even because there are still no motorways in Vas County. This is why it would be important, for example, to build the bypass section of the M8 in Körmend, which has been an extremely long question and an unbearable level of transit traffic in the city of Körmend, but the same is true for the bypass section of Szentgotthárd-jakabházi 8. This would be essential only for the prevention of accidents. Of course, now that the development of the section between Szentgotthárd-Körmend will take place, I think that this should be mentioned as a positive development to be recognised, but the construction of the bypassing sections should be the primary. And then I'd like to mention the part of road 76 after Hillback to Zalaegerszeg. Here, unfortunately, there has been another fatal accident in the Hegyhádás area, and this is relatively common. That is why it is important to get to Zalaegerszeg twice in two lanes. Progress has been made here too, so, indeed, some bypassing sections have been built, but we continue to see that in the part where this did not happen and at least no roadway has been developed, transport is still extremely dangerous. We can say the same with regard to the section between Szombathely 86 and the Cathedral, where truck traffic is unbearable. The 86 was built between Szombathely and Győr; although I do not understand why not as a motorway, it is inexplicable to me, but this is certainly an improvement compared to the previous one. However, the section between the Szombathely-Egyházasrádóc should also be prepared, as the short acceleration band between the Körmend-Egyházasrádóc does not solve the problem, and from this point of view it remains slow, but perhaps even more important, it is very difficult to travel from Körmend to Szombathely or from there, with an enormous amount of truck traffic. [[8.50]] And I also submitted a proposal for the 87 Szombathely-Kőszeg section, and the development of this is also essential, many promises have been made. It is also an accident-dangerous phase, and it should at least be developed into a road. I trust these steps will take place as soon as possible. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to take some examples from my constituency of small towns and small towns. Obviously, I can go into this without the need for completeness and only in headlines in view of the time frame, but I am still trying to cover the entire constituency in Körmend, since my amendments concern this area in the first place. Apatistvánfalva near Szentgotthárd in the Slovenian Rába region, here the renovation of the former notary building is important. But I would like to highlight the doctor's office because its roof structure is so damaged that you can see the sky, so that would be the most urgent and I would like to mention the issue of roads, but this could be brought up in almost every small settlement as a problem to be solved. In Bajanene, I would also refer to the doctor's office. We are talking about a Őrség settlement, and there are patients not only from here, but also from Kercaszomor, Kerkaskapolna, Magyarszombatfa and Velemér. We're talking about a serious problem that needs to be solved, a health issue, but I'd like to underline the roads here. Bögöte: roads, procurement of equipment, solarisation of pavements, public institutions, modernisation of public lighting, agricultural roads, but most importantly in this case, and almost everywhere along with the roads, it is the ordering of the doctor's office, because unfortunately we can see that the overall budget is very low in health care and I would raise the problem of the cemetery. It's a pickaxe dove. This settlement is located near Körmend 8 - building a social tenement, building a nursery, renovating a health house, building a village centre. I would stress the construction of the dam system because it is a very serious problem in the Dózsa-liget area, and even in the event of a minor flooding, people have to face serious problems. It has been waiting for a long time for a solution and there is no possibility for the settlement to do so, but I would also bring the establishment of the gym here, if everyday physical education has been introduced, then the infrastructure should also be provided. He's hot. We can talk about a small settlement between Körmend and Vasvár, only over a hundred people live here, but yet I would raise problems with mountain roads. The renovation of the former school building is because it would be necessary to build accommodation here, because the Blue Tour and the Mária Road meet here, cross-breeding, so very serious tourism can be observed, even ecclesiastical tourism. The sidewalk to the church, community square, that's what I'd like to mention. Gastronomy is a better-mandated town, and it must be acknowledged that, fortunately, in the TOP applications, kindergarten development can be achieved, this is welcome, but the building of the community space has long been promoted by the mayor, there are concrete ideas for this purpose, and I would like to mention the development of the sports locker. Gérce is located near Sárvár, but it belongs to the constituency of Körmend. I would mention the renovation of the sidewalks, the gymnasium, and the Gérce-Sitke link road, because it would be possible to do so with only 35 million forints. So I think that this is a small amount of money compared to the entire budget or to the consultation, but there are several goals that can be said to do the same, which is why it would be important to take action. I have already referred to Hegyhádász in connection with road 76, but this is precisely related to the fact that when there is an accident on the main road, it is necessary to pass through the settlement, which is why the renovation of the Cemetery Road would be an urgent task, since the municipality is absolving it, but, unfortunately, their possibilities are limited. My hometown Körmend, I would like to present several amendments here in a few sentences. The creation of a new public cemetery is an important problem. Steps have been taken on the part of the municipality in terms of land acquisition, but this should be further promoted. Rescue station. There have been improvements in the last few years, this is progress, but it would be possible to renovate the roof structure from 7 million forints. I think this symbolic support would express your appreciation for ambulances, which is why I am asking for your support. I would like to bring the matter of the mobile dam here briefly, on the right bank of Rába, we would need this from the flood protection point of view, as I mentioned in the case of Csákánydoroszlo. Movies could be renovated from 350 million forints, and like Szentgotthárd, there could also be a movie theater, which is important because many times young people do not stay in Körmend because, on the one hand, there are no job opportunities, but unfortunately, cultural entertainment opportunities are also limited. Luckily, there are some such events, so you can highlight, say, some theatrical events and the operation of the CAST, but I think that the re-creation of a cinema that is needed in the city, because five years ago, the Körmendi marked the film theatre as their most important value in a survey, and then it hasn't worked for a year, so this confirms the need. I'd like to bring in the fire department building, which could be renovated from around a hundred million forints. It's an urgent problem and the appreciation of firefighters, I think it's just that once again you don't have to talk too long. Kőszeg does not belong to the constituency of Körmend, but together with Tamás Sneider, we also tabled an amendment to the construction of the new public cemetery here. Here, too, measures have been taken from the municipality's side, but their possibilities are limited in financial terms here too, and the renovation of the car parks in the downtown would also be possible with a smaller amount of money. Parking takes place in Kőszeg in the Alpokalya near the Castle Circle, near the historic downtown, so it is important that there are substantial steps to be taken here, where a lot of people come from other counties or from abroad as well. Molnaszecsőd is a settlement near Körmend, also situated along Highway 8, and the 8 is currently passing through it, whose development would be important anyway, because Viktor Orbán promised to do so on two occasions in Körmend that his four-banding would happen. Compared to this, only the Szentgotthárd-Körmend section can see certain movements, i.e. the Iron County section, of course. This should go on. But staying at Molnaszegúd, this is bell tower, wooden stage, pavilion state reserve, Kossuth Road. Then the community space, which is important because most of the cultural programmes take place here in the settlement, for example the Rába Festival, which will be held on 9-11 June, is a traditional event. Then the roads, the agricultural roads are also a problem here, their catastrophic state, the cultural house, and I would stress the question of kindergarten. It would also be possible to renovate this externally with a small amount of money, and children come from three villages, so I think that this would be important in order to protect and promote the situation of small settlements. I would like to bring the establishment of a local government office, a funeral home and a tourist-water block, accommodation here separately because, on the one hand, canoe tourism is also significant - Rába is also passing through the settlement - and on the other hand, the Blue Tour route is also passing through here. Nemeskeresztúr is located next to Jánosháza, the renovation of the sidewalk section, the external renovation of the cultural house - the interior has already been completed - and the case of the medical office, which I would like to mention. And the Noble Bar is near Celldömölk in essence, right next to Boba, but it also belongs to the district of Körmend. I'd like to bring you the number 025, the camera system. Unfortunately, it was also seen here that certain settlements close to Fidesz had received these cameras in the first place, so that I could say, let's say, in the case of Szakonyfalu, this happened, where Antal Rogán's brother was the mayor, and compared to that, the people living there could face very serious traffic. Building ten cameras could solve this. Then the interior renovation of the cultural house, the renovation of Rákóczi and Vasút Street, and the purchase of tractor and grass, these were added. It's a matter of guard bike paths. I have recently submitted a written question on the area of Körmend and Szentgotthárd, recognising that bicycle roads have been built in some places over the last few years, but unfortunately we cannot talk about meaningful improvements in the Őrség, although this is also important because of contact, and in order to boost rural tourism, such a signal has come from several mayors, and I hope that they can support this goal. I left to the end my amendments to our city, Szentgotthárd, among which there is also a symbolic one. I am thinking of the rescue station with whom we have a very good relationship, because we have tried to help the ambulances working there as well, but we need two vacuum rails, because only the ambulances in Szentgotthárd do not have them in the area. Otherwise, burn bandages should also be purchased by employees themselves. It could be solved with half a million forints. It doesn't necessarily belong to the budget, I'll give you that, but I think it would be a cry for help and a recognition of the respect of ambulances if they accepted it. The case of parking places in Szentgotthárd, parking places in downtown near the grove. There's a little rain, a swamp sea is forming. Unfortunately, the municipality is not taking any action and we can talk about paying parking, so I think that either they shouldn't collect the money or they should solve the parking opportunity here. It's a matter of the mayor's office. There is a tender for this, but it is important to accelerate because we are talking about a former monastery building next to the Catholic Baroque church, which will be renewed, and that is why it is important for the mayor's office to welcome those arriving there in a worthy environment. Very briefly about the Baroque Church case, because here I would refer you back to the history. In 2010, the budget amendment proposed by me was adopted in relation to the Catholic church, which was a symbol of the city, forints 100 million, and then it was almost pulled down completely, and in the end it remained 82, which had to be supplemented. I think it's a pretty petty thing, too. However, I am pleased that HUF 535 million is now arriving for this purpose, although I do not really understand why the amendments I tabled could not be supported in recent years. I mean, obviously, they made a pride question out of this after 2010, but at least that's how the entire interior renovation can happen, but then the mayor's office should have it. I would also like to bring here the Reformed Congregation Center, which could also be built from a sum of 50 million. As a Presbyter, this is particularly my concern, because there are high-quality programs here, not just for worship, but for other occasions: concerts, pedestal occasions, lectures. It is the 500th anniversary of the Reformation, the church was consecrated 15 years ago, this weekend there was a Thanksgiving service, and there are many Reformed members of the government, so I really hope that this goal has been supported. I would also like to bring the complete renovation of the music school here, as this would also be important from a cultural and educational point of view. [[9.00]] Overall, Honourable Parliament, I can tell you that, of course, there are a lot of settlements in the country, in my district, in the constituency of Körmend, there are 127 settlements, and it is obviously difficult to make an objective decision, and the amendments that I have tabled, as I have referred to, are of a kind of cry for help. Yet I think the most important thing is to change their attitude. I'm already trying to do this out of opposition. So the most important thing I think would be that if, according to their merits, small settlements, small towns could benefit from these funds, resources and, where appropriate, tenders, and that is how I try to serve the people who live there, trusting that I can do so as an individual representative as a result of their mandate next year, but I can also promise from the opposition that I am trying to help their work. And I can only hope that some of these amendments will be supported and, more particularly, that the approach that is typical of you can change, and that they can finally get access to these funds on a truly professional basis, according to their merits and on the basis of values. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Fodor.
u2017-05-18-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of myself and the Liberal Party, to comment on the budget and state our position. I would like to start by saying that it is certainly not surprising for the people present that, as a opposition party, I will say that I do not support the budget. This is, in fact, a natural thing in Parliament on the part of an opposition party. Actually, what's special is that the budget has opposition support. Of course, this is not an unimaginable situation, because it is possible to have a government when the governing party seeks to have its policy accepted as widely as possible, but this is not what we are facing in Hungary at the moment, on the contrary: the current coalition of governments in all respects, not only the budget, but also in other respects, seeks not to take opposition opinions into account at any level. True, the Fidesz government is already forced to lose two thirds to try to reach an agreement on certain issues, but the willingness to agree, the willingness to compromise, I would say, is almost equal to zero at the moment on the part of the government coalition. So it is not surprising that in the otherwise normal process, it is a natural process that the opposition does not support a budget, but criticises it, and it is its job to draw attention to contradictions and impossible anomalies that may occur in relation to a budget. First of all, let me start by saying that, in general, the budget is also about economic policy. Obviously, the economic policy that the Fidesz government represents today in Hungary will not be supported by us liberals. We will not support it, because this economic policy is based on, inter alia, increasing public engagement and public participation, increasing and increasing the state's participation in the economy. This goes entirely against the concept that we represent. We believe that the state is needed, that the state has a civilization and a kind of civilization role in all modern states and countries, that must also be pursued, but freedom is equally important, ensuring freedom, economically and politically. Economically, this means that economic operators must be as independent of the State as possible. It is important for people to be able to become owners so that they can move away from state dependence, and the rules must be designed in such a way that they can operate as much as possible under the rules of the market on the basis of their own beliefs, their own vision, and that the state enters this system only in the necessary cases, in a role of fairness, fairness and rights. This is not the case in Hungary at the moment. Today we know that the state is growing more and more, unlike the period after the change of regime, where the economic role of the state has decreased, it is growing again today, in the last period; it is growing, and this is not good for the Hungarian economy. All kinds of problems come from this. That it is only a general problem, not an incidental one, but a serious one, but a general problem: the greater the state's involvement, the greater the corruption in every state, it is legally so. The same is true in Hungary, but also in other states, where there is a similarly high level of state involvement in the economy. Moreover, it is not good for competitiveness. We know well that Hungary, which, in the 1990s and after the change of regime, compared to the post-communist countries from which we started, has been at the forefront compared with this region, and we have regularly placed our first position in all indicators, in all economic indicators, essentially with the Czechs and Slovenians, today Hungary is well out of this region, we are now in the Balkan region, and we are back there, with Romania and Bulgaria, fighting for various positions and positions, among other things, because our competitiveness has deteriorated greatly; competitiveness, which is also directly proportional to the state involvement, including in the economy. Therefore, we cannot support this economic philosophy in itself, which is represented by the budget, on the contrary: we represent something else in the opposite direction. Liberals believe that, yes, the role of the state, as I said, must be held back, and the state must be strong, effective, but much more restrained in an economy. Moreover, the country must do everything it can to increase its competitiveness and reduce corruption, which, unfortunately, is too strong in Hungary - we can also refer to international surveys. We do not see any signs of this effort in the budget, by the way. We do not see any direction on how the current governing parties are trying to increase Hungary's competitiveness. We do not see the emergence of the important element of corruption, unfair and unfair conduct of public procurement, the emergence of Fidesz-close entrepreneurs in all economic decisions and in all areas of economic life - how the government would try to reduce this in some way, since there is a general public uprising on corruption in Hungary today. This can also be said for pro-government voters who, reluctantly, do not have a good heart, in a less mobilizable way, vote or support political power which is otherwise kind to them, but think that this is not an acceptable direction for Hungary in economic policy. We do not see this ambition in this budget, there are no ideas, no proposals. Moreover, I cannot stress that we can compare ourselves to the neighbouring countries. As I referred to just now, when I spoke about Hungary of the '90s, Hungary after the regime change, which was the leader of the region, and how we have now slipped down to being one of the leaders of the region, so when we talk about this, we really need to draw up a comparison of the current situation with the surrounding countries. It is because, in the meantime, my fellow members of the Government could say, of course, that there are currently data on Hungary that are beautiful and impressive, and that is indeed true, because statistical data can be listed that show that the Hungarian economy has good results. Now, the latest analysts from a few days ago, in general, are also surprised: the growth of the national total product, the so-called GDP, which has produced above expectations in the last quarter. So there is no doubt that there are statistics that are good at first sight. But it's worth looking behind the numbers, and we liberals need to draw attention to this, that yes, please take this task seriously and look beyond the numbers. Because what do we see behind the numbers? Among other things, it is right, of course, to try to put emphasis on economic growth in the first place, to reduce unemployment, to achieve a manageable level of inflation. It may also be a good endeavour that wages also need to increase in some way in Hungary. It doesn't matter, of course, how we put it, how we increase it, how we regroup, these are not incidental questions, although I don't want to deal with these details right now. So these would be eligible efforts. However, what we need to look at is that when we are talking about economic growth, from which these eligible efforts could be financed, as I said earlier, it is not possible to forget that economic growth in Hungary today seems to be in a very sensitive proportion, whether EU subsidies are coming or not. So whether Brussels is exactly what the government coalition is fighting against, because they are trying to stop Brussels, whether Brussels is financing Hungary or not, whether the billions of euros are coming to Hungary or not. The state of the Hungarian economy, as I have just said, is the growth of the national total product, the growth of so-called GDP, in full harmony with this. [[9.10]] Last year, when the flow of money stopped coming here, interestingly, significantly immediately, then, surprisingly, the market expectations, they were abundantly low, in a very low way, so you can say that Hungarian GDP did not increase surprisingly. Now, when the money started to grow, it suddenly began to grow intensely. I would like to draw more conclusions from this, and I would like to suggest one thing to your attention, namely that Hungary is extremely vulnerable to the evil Brussels against which, as I have said, the Fidesz is constantly at war, as we have heard, in recent days the governing party has turned to the government to extend the national consultation that is to stop Brussels! This is what we see from yesterday's developments, when Hungary has been severely and severely condemned in the European Parliament with the support of, among other things, the People's Party representatives. Well, this is one of the reasons for this shame that Hungary has suffered, many things, many elements of politics, but also the wrong economic policy. Therefore, economic policy cannot be built solely on the money of evil Brussels, on the money of Brussels, which is constantly being stopped, which is constantly in your rhetoric as a bogeyman and as an enemy. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the liberals, it is not possible to present to the country a budget that is essentially based on this, on the money in Brussels that is constantly turning Brussels into an enemy at another level, and thus harassing your voting base, they think that this is how to mobilise voters, constantly mobilize voters, to create an enemy image for them forever, where evil George Soros is controlling the processes from the background, and where ugly and outrageous Brussels is. So these are obviously not acceptable directions. They are not acceptable because it is worth looking at what is happening in the neighbouring countries, so how the neighbouring countries have been able to make use of EU support. Indeed, if, as I said, I look at Hungary in the early 90s, when Hungary was a kind of period of glory, and after the change of regime, we were the leading state of the region for a long time, so, with all its contradictions and all its difficulties for Hungary, the decade was a successful period, compared to the post-communist countries, and if I look at the current period of failure, then we have to establish that the countries with which we were in competition, whether the Czechs, as I said before, were compared to the Slovenians, or to others, to the Baltic countries, were able to live with the European Union's support much, much better, much wiser and better serving their long-term interests. For at the moment, these countries are not as vulnerable to support in Brussels as I have stressed before, to the support of the evil and ugly Brussels against which you are constantly fighting, they are not at risk in the same way as Hungary. The economy of these countries, whether I buy the Baltic countries or I buy the Czech Republic, Slovenia or even Slovakia, which has left us at record speed in countless indicators, not to mention the Poles, who were so unprecedented behind us in the early 1990s that it cannot be said that they are now in almost all the indicators before us, so if we take these countries out, we will look at how vulnerable they are, how exposed they are to EU subsidies, we can see that it is by far Hungary that is the most vulnerable. Your budget, your economic policy, is basically based on this, Brussels support, Brussels support, which, in other respects, the whole European Union, is constantly being criticised and will do everything to prevent or hinder the functioning of the European Union. This is not fair in itself, it is not fair in itself, and it is not eligible for economic policy. Therefore, an economic policy should be put before the House in the form of a budget, which will make efforts to enable the Hungarian economy to be competitive even without support from Brussels, to be able to stand up to it, to actually produce results in this international field, especially in comparison with the post-communist countries - and Hungary has not succeeded in doing so under your governance. Because - I would stress once again - you can really draw statistical data, indeed there are results, there really can be said in some respect that, yes, we have gone forward, this is how much and so much better these indicators are compared to recent years, but not just the surface, not just the result of the numbers, just the numbers, but also the processes behind them. And the processes behind them are extremely worrying, because, in fact, in economic policy, you have failed to achieve it after all these years, even after seven years, so that the Hungarian economy can stand on its own feet without EU support. And that's why this budget can't be accepted. Well, let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that, in addition to the general issues that I wanted to address, I should also like to talk about a specific issue with regard to the budget. Since we liberals consider the entire budget to be a mistake and a failure, we do not want to deal with the details, but in one case we do, and this is because - also in response to a current problem - not only George Soros and Brussels are among the mummies, but also the so-called civil society organisations are in the crossfire of your attack, which is why, among other things, the European Parliament's condemning decision, the pursuit of the Central European University, the unacceptable and outrageous anti-Brussels mood, and the destruction and inability of civil society organisations. Now, we would like to submit a motion on the civil sphere, which is... - the story of the 1 percent is well known in Hungary, I am personally proud of it, because under my ministry the possibility of this 1 percent tax offer was born, and now it is more extensive, because we introduced it to cultural organizations for the first time, today it is also one percent in the churches, quite rightly, because it is also for the strengthening of the independent citizen, the civil sphere, the creation of the ethos of an independent citizen in Hungary. We would like to see this offerable part rise from 1 per cent to 2 per cent, because we believe that this would make these organisations, this sphere, more eligible, and we believe that this could prevent the kind of enveloped and non-enveloped state aid, which is particularly present in the Church territory in an unacceptable way, because, as we know, in a modern and civilised state, the state and the church must operate separately from each other. The church has its own role, its otherwise useful and eligible role, but these must be treated as a kind of private institutions; the opportunity must be given to their operation, so we want to raise this support, but we want to make it clear that the channels on which the state and the government have to cut down, among other things, in order to create a background, a social background and a background for organizational support for their policies, provide subsidies that are unfair, unfair and do not yet comply with the rules of fairness, nor with the rules of fair competition for different players or market players. Let's just think about, say, the question of education, how unbelievable there are distorted relationships between the support of church schools, public schools, private schools. We would therefore like to put this proposal in a fair and fair way, so that it is for both the young and the elderly - because it is a tax offering, and the problem always comes up here, and those who do not pay taxes, because, let's say, pensioners, what they do, we will also have a proposal for it - so we would like to submit a proposal that is fair and fair in this respect, but that remedys this unacceptable situation. Together with all this, and together, I would like to say once again that this budget is not eligible for us, we believe, because of the misguided economic policy and the missing results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2017-05-18-12	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a minority advocate.
u2017-05-18-13	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglichdes GesetzesvorschlägesNr. T/15381. uber den ungarischenHaushalt - im Zusammenhang mit den Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen und Nationalitäten Kindergarten- und Nationalitäten Pädagogenprogram - erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to express our position on the central budget for 2018, T/15381. The number 1 bill concerns parts of the national minority needs, in particular the minority kindergarten and the minority educator programme. [[9.20]] In my comment yesterday, I tried to give a brief overview of the last three years, the positive changes affecting the nationalities living in Hungary, the work that preceded the preparation of the national needs of the 2018 central budget bill. In the last part of my speech, I presented a broad outline of the minority kindergarten teacher's and ethnic educator's programme, which is the backbone of the 2018 ethnic needs with HUF 2 billion and HUF 416 million. This time, I would like to evaluate in more detail the results of the surveys carried out in the kindergartens of nationality and to inform you in more detail about the measures planned in the programme, this House. As an introduction, I would like to say that out of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, eight ethnic minorities have an official nationality kindergarten, Croatian, German, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian nationalities; five ethnicities - Bulgarian, Greek, Polish, Armenian, Ukrainian - do not have an official nationality kindergarten, although two of them are working on weekends and unofficially trying to deal with children. The situation of the 8 nationalities with national minority kindergartens is also different in many respects, depending on their location in Hungary, how far they are from the mother country, what the number of nationalities is, and so on. Thus, there are common points on the issue of minority kindergartens, but also specific features, problems and tasks per nationality, as in most ethnic issues, so there is not a single template solution for all nationalities and all problems. In addition, the Roma in Hungary are also in a particular situation compared to other nationalities, since while other nationalities try to bring children together in smaller or larger national minority kindergartens and provide them with ethnic education, in the case of Roma children, the issue and problem of segregation may arise at any time. The minority kindergarten educator project covers all eight nationalities with ethnic pre-schools, and I would like to present the problem with the results of the survey on German ethnic pre-schools. Between October 2016 and February 2017, all 215 German ethnic preschools were fully evaluated for five years and five years forward in terms of expected data. Here I note that it is a coincidence that the Germans in Hungary have 215 kindergartens, just as Hungarians across the border have 215 Hungarian kindergartens. According to the Public Education Act, there can be two types of ethnic preschools in Hungary. One is the monolingual, ethnic language, where education is conducted exclusively in the language of nationality; in Hungary, only one kindergarten, the Valerie Koch in Pécs, and only three years ago, a monolingual German language education has been held in Hungary. The other 214 German kindergartens are taught in two languages, in Hungarian and in German. In the bilingual minority kindergartens, under the Public Education Act, children receiving nationality education should be treated in more than half of their education time in ethnic language, or German, which means that both kindergarten teachers working in ethnic groups should have German ethnic qualifications. There are 568 ethnic groups in the 215 German national minority kindergartens, with 1136 pre-school teachers of nationality per group. On the other hand, the actual number of German ethnic educators is only 662, i.e. the number of missing German kindergarten teachers is 474 and 41.7 percent of the required number is missing, i.e. almost every other German ethnic educator is missing. That's what I said yesterday, that if today's situation had to be evaluated in one word, we'd have to say it's tragic. And if we look at and group the aggregated data by kindergarten, then the number of national kindergartens where both kindergarten teachers - or where there are three - have nationality education, 33 have nationality education, only 15.4 percent of all kindergartens, i.e. only one in seven German ethnic kindergartens have personal conditions for the statutory level of nationality education. The number of kindergarten teachers with more ethnic qualifications than there are ethnic groups, 39 institutions, 18.1 percent of all kindergartens. In these kindergartens, there is at least the minimum condition and safety that the loss of a national kindergarten teacher does not immediately mean that a minority group will be without a national kindergarten teacher for any reason. In all other German national preschools, two thirds of the kindergartens have a maximum of one German national kindergarten teacher per group, i.e. in the case of a temporary or permanent loss of any German national kindergarten teacher - children, patients, for any other reason - even one national ed teacher per group cannot be guaranteed. Finally, at the time of the survey, but still in 22 German national preschools, 10 percent of kindergartens were less German national children's educators than German ethnic groups, 9 national preschools were not a kindergarten teacher with a degree in nationality, and 4 kindergartens had not even started a German ethnic group in 2016 due to the lack of a minority kindergarten teacher. On this basis, it should be said that, only on the basis of the nationality education, it is not possible to pursue effective national education in about two thirds of German national preschools. This situation has been perceived for about a decade and a half, which has been drastically accelerated in the last two to three years by the lack of large-scale German language educators due to large-scale migration to Austria and Germany and their absorption effect. With regard to German nationality, there is also a serious risk that there is no higher education course in Austria and Germany, so there are open faculties for graduates of German ethnic education at Hungarian universities and colleges. In the case of German nationality, but also in the case of other Hungarian nationalities, foreign companies working in Hungary have a further exhausting effect, as national children's educators and ethnic teachers who speak the language of nationality can obtain significantly higher wages in business than teachers than foreign companies operating in Hungary because of their language skills. As with the numbers of 474 national children's kindergarten teachers in the German national minority kindergartens, there are also very serious problems in the area of education in the national minority, on the basis of data processed by the national minority authorities, the lack of a national kindergarten teacher is close to 80 people. In total, the number of missing national children's educators is around 550 in the eight nationalities. In the average of the last five years, 75-80 national kindergarten educators received their degrees and degrees each year at the seven primary and supplementary education schools and colleges, but many of them also did not start the kindergarten educator course. [[9.30]] The current situation poses a fundamental threat to the functioning of national kindergartens due to the lack of a minority kindergarten teacher. On the basis of repeated discussions and consultations with seven universities and colleges who have completed the education of nationality kindergarten teachers, in the next two years, there would be an optimal opportunity to provide about 100 people for initial education in the eight ethnicities concerned and 60 persons per year for additional education in the nationalities of those with Hungarian basic education. The task is three. On the one hand, with a contract of scholarship for students in the field of national education education, it is necessary to create a situation for students to apply for a maximum number of initial education courses. Nationality kindergartens should be interested in sending their teachers with a Hungarian basic degree, but belonging to a national minority, who speak ethnicity language, to additional education in nationality, and supporting training institutions at such a level as to enable them to ensure the personal and material conditions of an appropriate level of basic and complementary education of nationality. The annual cost of all this is about HUF 134 million based on detailed, concrete measures. Secondly, and on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that the current national kindergarten educators on the field remain on the track, perhaps the former career leavers return, to which we propose a significant increase in the amount of the minority kindergarten teacher allowance, which is currently HUF 17 712 at the moment, by 300 percent, which would be an indication for the entire national kindergarten educator society that could bring forward this problem and its solution. The cost of this would be HUF 812 million per year, taking into account 1044 children's kindergarten educators based on the actual data of February 2017. Returning and strengthening our children's mother tongue will start in national nursery schools. It is therefore crucial to assess the educational education of nationalities, and here we have focused on national nursery schools in the first stage. But we know that we can see that there are at least such levels of problems with the education of ethnic teachers and the education of ethnic schools, which we want to do as a second step next year. In the meantime, as long as the full programme for the education of national minority teachers is being developed, it is essential to maintain a 300 percent increase of the national minority teachers on the current course, and therefore we recommend that the national minority teachers also receive the national minority allowance, which is also HUF 17 712 per year, equivalent to the kindergarten educators, with a total annual cost of HUF 1 billion 470 million per year, based on the actual data of February 2017. On the basis of this, the total annual cost of the total solution of the full education of national children's children's educator, the national kindergarten educator's and minority educator's programme is HUF 2 billion 416 million, and I respectfully ask for your support for the future of our children in the proposal to be submitted by the Committee on Nationality to the Central Budget Act 2018. The third and equally important task related to the programme, which is no longer a financial issue, is that, in addition to solving the problems of the number of ethnic education gadgets, we consider the significant development and objective measurement of the quality of training, including nationality language knowledge and nationality content, to be equally important. This is because, as a result of the lack of training, there are significant differences in nationality language skills among some of the ethnic educators on the field, including between training places. In consultation with the training sites and in consultation with the competent professional wallet, objective, written requirements on nationality language skills should be established during recruitment and those who do not have the appropriate level of language competence should be extended to eight-semester initial training for those six-semesters, from which the first two semesters would essentially serve the development of minority language competences. A nationality language examination requirement should also be introduced on the output side of the national kindergarten educator's training, eliminating today's harmful situation of automatic recognition of the acquisition of a nationality kindergarten teacher's degree, irrespective of any level of language examination or language proficiency, as equivalent to a type C language examination. The very amazing situation has developed and has been the case in recent years, that when a person applied for a Hungarian-language kindergarten teacher basic education, he had to take at least one type B state language exam to take the degree. At the same time, if a person applied for a primary education in a kindergarten teacher, there was a training facility where there was only an oral interview in ethnic language, based on which they could practically hire anyone regardless of their language skills. After that, the majority of the minority kindergarten educator training was conducted in Hungarian, the thesis could be written and protected in Hungarian, and finally, the acquisition of the ethnic kindergarten educator's degree was automatically admitted to the C-type examination without a language examination, and without a recent degree in the language examination of the ethnic kindergarten teacher, he could receive and receive his degree, sometimes with inadequate or minimal language skills. We would like to eliminate these anomalies in cooperation with universities and colleges, to set clear and objective measurement requirements for both the input and the output side of the national minority language for basic and complementary training of the national kindergarten educator, which precludes a future degree in national kindergarten educator or ethnic educator who does not possess the language of that nationality at an appropriate level. A nation lives in its language. For a nationality, that's even more exponentially true. In Hungary, in the past hundred years - let's say - a significant part of Hungary's nationalities have lost their mother tongue, partly their identity, and, as a result, Hungary has become a monolingual country with a little exaggeration. We have become very distant from the St. Stephen's intellects that we so often tell. I think that, in view of this, the Hungarian policy and the government have taken a number of measures in recent years that are trying to improve this situation: imposing a language examination obligation on a university degree or making the first language exam free. Nevertheless, Hungary is still the last in Europe in terms of language skills. This is partly due to the fact that Hungarian nationalities have lost their mother tongue. With the change of life, the child is now the first from his mother, even if he hears the mother tongue of his nationality, but he is in a much more Hungarian language environment than in a minority language environment, so today all ethnic children born in Hungary grow up in Hungarian. But it is vital for us that the language of nationality is also a mother tongue. I need your help and your support for this. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon. [[9.40]]
u2017-05-18-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In my speech, which I have set my objective, I will change the emphasis somewhat, because following the general debate, I would also like to comment on an issue that I have not planned. Since the issue of competitiveness has already been raised, I do not see Gábor Fodor, but he raised it, and I would also like to refer to the issues that are important in this context. T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. As in previous years, the guidelines and principles for determining the government's economic policy will be published in 2018 as well. These principles - I join in my fellow Member, László Szászfalvi's speech - are the support of families, the expansion of employment, the promotion of this and the promotion of a steady rise in living standards. Within these, the budget for next year will also pay particular attention to helping parents get into work and to increasing the incomes of workers in different sectors. The introduction of the pedagogical career career was a decisive step in terms of wage arrangements for public education workers, for which the necessary resources have always been provided by the municipal chapter of the budget to preschool teachers and teachers directly assisting in educational work. However, the increase in wages was not only in the field of public education, as from 2014 the social sector's earnings have been increasing. In addition, from 2016 young children with a tertiary education in the nursery will be entitled to a teacher's career wage, and from this year a nursery allowance will also be granted to children with secondary education. The minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage have affected each sector differently, which is taken into account in the aid scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure that young people are well cared for, the government and local authorities also pay particular attention to the feeding of children and the effective organisation of the small children's care system. The figures for next year's budget show that there will be major changes, as my fellow Member has already mentioned, in the area of nursery care. Task-based funding will also be introduced for nursery and mini-cradle care, which has proven to be effective in several areas, such as social specialized care, kindergarten education or the provision of meals for children. The budget also includes HUF 1.5 billion in development resources to support the development of the mini-cradle in order to make childcare available in as many settlements as possible to facilitate the work of parents. In my constituency - Dunaújváros and its area, Fejér county 4th constituency - there are practical examples, and surveys among parents support this need, which means the development of nursery care. This is also linked to the fact that the possibility of part-time employment should be linked to this programme in an appropriate manner. There are forgotten industries such as light industry industries such as sewing... and the employment of women's labour force in this area. For example, there is a serious need for part-time employment in our region, and I could go on with it. I think that this is the right step when we increase the number of crèches, and in this way we also support the inclusion of women in employment. This is also linked to the fact that, as has already been said many times today, more children will be entitled to free meals due to changes in the conditions for entitlement to regular child protection benefits from next year, to which the 2018 budget will provide more resources. As has already been said, but let me repeat, institutional and holiday meals will be available in the next year's budget for nearly HUF 80 billion. As regards municipal funding, the most important objective of next year's budget is to maintain predictability and stability, strengthen fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits and facilitate the catching-up of small settlements. Within the municipal chapter, it remains correct to maintain the amount available for extraordinary support to municipalities and also the aid for force majeure. Also an example of my own constituency: there are cases where it is not possible to plan, obviously a force majeure event cannot be planned, the Danube is taking place in the entire line of my constituency, many settlements are in that circle, and we do not know when local governments will be in a situation where they need help due to the specific flooding of the Danube or the condition of the löszfal. For example, this also serves as a cover for these tasks under the force majeure framework. The reason why I deviate from my original speech at this point is because my colleague Tibor Bana's 66 amendments indicated road improvements in a significant part of his amendment. If Mr. Secretary were in the room, I'd address him, but he'll probably read the minutes. I think that what can now be said in the general debate, because we have not tabled an amendment in this respect, but I would like to stress it as a representative of Fejér County, and this is related to the issue of competitiveness: in the framework of the road development programme until 2022, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the region of the country in which we are working with my fellow Members, and this is the territory of Fejér from the Danube to Lake Balaton and South Feyér County; I would like to stress, in particular, in relation to three motorways, that increasing the competitiveness of the area would require us to start at least from 2018 to the preparation of the authorisation plan for the M8 motorway and to provide adequate resources for this from the Danube Bridge, from the bridge of Dunaújváros to the connection with the M7 in Enying. In the other direction, plans for the section from the Danube Bridge to Kecskemét would also be good if the budget or any related part of it were included. I would also say this because it would be a link between three motorways which would serve to take down transversal traffic and, if necessary, to modernise the transport routes in the region. In other words, I wanted to draw attention to a very important section of road development. I think that others will join us in this debate for the rest of the debate. This would also support mobility. It is a major problem that, in addition to the steps taken towards full employment, we now see that there are also areas, especially our region, where the need for further improvements can be realised, company development if there is a sufficient composition and a sufficient workforce. [[9.50]] It is very important to make good use of available resources for both vocational training and higher education. This is what we do when it comes to developing the University of Dunaújváros to create opportunities for sectors that are developing in our neighbourhood, such as metallurgy and the next round of Paks enlargement. In view of what has been said, we will express our position on each amendment in the detailed debate. I would like your comments to support the adoption of the 2018 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-18-16	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2017-05-18-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, For the last 27 years, the budget has always been a question of trust from the pro-government representatives. There was one in the early 1990s when the then prime minister told the government representatives to consider the budget a question of trust. In other words, the pro-government representatives support the budget, practically without exception, and the opposition is obviously trying to point to weaknesses in the budget. It's kind of natural. However, I think that a debate may make sense that, where appropriate, the pro-government representatives will reflect on what opposition representatives are saying, or at least consider the aspects that they are putting on the table, perhaps break up with the traditions of the last seven years, and try to include opposition amendments in the budget, if you think it is so good. I would like to say a few points at the beginning of my speech, first of all, to the macro numbers, which may put the budget in a slightly different light and contradict the hurrah-optimistic mood that you are trying to create here in the last few days. First of all, when we talk about GDP growth, it is always worth looking at the situation of Hungary compared to its regional competitors, how the neighbouring countries were able to grow, how this is in relation to the data of Hungarian GDP growth. If we compare this with the data for 2016, we can see that we did not have a regional competitor that would have produced a worse figure in terms of GDP growth, according to Eurostat figures in particular. There are several percentage points behind growth in Eurostat data. These figures show 2.2 per cent for Hungary, but I could mention the 3.5 per cent increase in Croatia, the 4.1 per cent increase in Bulgaria, or a quite surprising figure, a 5.1 per cent increase in Romania, but all our other competitors, Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia, have increased more. This means that our lag is growing at a time when virtually all of Europe's GDP, with the exception of certain southern European countries, is growing. Hungary, on the other hand, is not able to use this period to catch up, but is actually growing in the region. I would like to mention the issue of sovereign debt, which they talk about a lot, the less they actually do in this case. Although the reduction in public debt is somewhat noticeable, the rate of decline is slowing. If you look at it nominally, in 2010, Hungary's government debt was about HUF 20 000 billion, and by 2018 it would be about . 30 It's growing to a billion. So there's about 10 (sic!) billions of differences in these now seven years, which can be appreciated, and next year's budget is obviously the eighth of that year. I'll have to put it on the table here that you have abducted 3,000 billion private pension funds. This is important because if you look into their memories - this is what I ask you - you may remember that there was a serious debate between the Visegrád States and the European Union - and I would definitely mention Poland here - so that private pension savings do not count against public debt and the deficit in the current year. This was in the period before 2010. Obviously, this debate was lost in this sense by the Visegrád states, it had to count, but if you count it, something is wrong, because the public debt has increased by 10,000 billion, and even this 3,000 billion savings has disappeared. In fact, without the savings, the government debt would have actually been 17 billion if we had counted the savings, or we really had to think about the situation today. In fact, government debt has been increased by HUF 13 000 billion over the last seven years. We managed this by increasing poverty in the country. [[Dr. István Vitányi:]] These are facts, Congressman. But you can tell me later. Obviously you won't hear such things on M1 and rest assured that your propaganda will tell you what you're saying, there won't be any opposition opinion in any propaganda television, so you won't have to defend your budget so agilely in front of your constituents. Poverty has increased, and the gap between the poorest 10 percent and the richest 10 percent is now tenfold. This was roughly eight times during the change of government, so the situation has deteriorated in this respect as well. The purchasing power of the minimum wage, which you do not like to talk about: compared to the 2010 base, so in terms of 100%, purchasing power only reached the level it represented in 2010. This is also a fact, concrete numbers, whatever they may say in the case of propaganda televisions and propaganda media. The fact is that you have taxed the minimum wage, and until 2016, it has not exactly maintained its real value, either, by the minimum wage. This has obviously increased poverty in Hungary. Here I would like to say that the competition in the regions shows Hungary's slippage. In fact, in comparison with regional competitiveness figures, we can see what will become of Hungary's economy and society in the coming decades, how the Hungarian people will live - this is projected. It compares regions according to three parameters in terms of the EU's list of competitiveness, health, education and innovation. Well, the picture is terrible, all seven Hungarian regions have deteriorated according to 2016 measurements compared to 2013. So both times are in your hands. Four of the seven Hungarian regions are in the last twenty according to the aggregated data. Here I would draw your attention to a data, which is quite amazing: the Northern Hungary region is 262 out of 263 regions in the healthcare parameter. I also stress this specifically because, as a Member of the Parliament of Miskolc, I see the situation that health in the region is struggling with, the unblessed conditions, the waiting lists, the huge lines and the growing shortage of professionals and doctors. I would like to say to you that health is the biggest problem today, according to all the measurements that the electorate perceives, calls for a solution, not for a solution, but for real, substantial increase in resources, especially in areas that are already more difficult. It is a scandal that the region of North Hungary is the second-to-last in this parameter, already the Bulgarian and Romanian regions. This is therefore unacceptable. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And obviously we can think about the number of education that we have come here in the last seven years, how many speeches we have had here on the opposition side to reduce the age of compulsory education, so that the poorer students do not get to higher education - all of which cause problems - and in relation to innovation, we do not really see the breakout points. I would like to mention that the forint has shatteringly weakened 17 percent in the last seven years, which is why the government, György Matolcsy, is clearly responsible specifically, partly as Minister of Economy until 2013 and since then as President of the Central Bank. And it seems that people's burdens are also growing. Over the period since 2010, public burdens increased from 37.5 per cent in proportion to 39.2% in GDP. Of course, in the meantime, the situation for those with higher incomes has become more favourable, but, as I mentioned earlier, the minimum wage has been taxed, the VAT rate is Europe's peak, still 27 percent. We have repeatedly suggested introducing a more preferential VAT rate of 5% for basic foods, which would help the most difficult people in the line. Well, we're kind of slow to see this coming back in the budget. In this connection, we have tabled amendments. The tax burden on people living on wages, minimum wage and minimum wage is among the largest in the European Union and in the OECD area. Here again, I would stress that the lowest earners have the greatest burden, and their burdens have especially increased. About growth, we spend some HUF 2400 billion of EU funds in 2018, and this is what is being built into Hungary's growth and development. This is 6.4 percent of GDP, 6.4 percent of the GDP you otherwise expect is rather optimistic. Of this 6.4 percent source call, 4.3 percent increase is projected by your optimistic number. It can be seen, however, that the situation could indeed be better when comparing these two numbers. [[10.00]] Let's take a look at what these development resources are being spent on and in what way at the end of my speech. I would mention the TOPs here, as perhaps the most anticipated breakout points in rural Hungary. However, in the TOP applications, serious delays and serious question marks are being formulated throughout rural municipalities. With regard to county-righted cities, the situation of the TOPs is obviously so much simpler that there is a specific framework in proportion to the population and the other situation, which is clearly decided by the bodies and other forums. However, in terms of smaller villages and towns, county municipalities have entered as evaluation bodies. There are many points to hear here in objectivity, in the objectivity of decision-making, there are serious question marks. To hear of Fidesz MEPs running around with lists of exits that belong to them, people who tell us about contact with them - as the only condition for success. Every member of the MSZP fraction of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county assembly, each county assembly member, has been asked to sign a non-disclosure statement throughout the country, but to know that, let's just say, they couldn't see any meaningful information about the methodology of decision preparation and the content of the evaluation and preparation. The European Union has also made several comments in this process, so I say that there are very serious abuses in the mechanism of the TOP allocation. That's what you're suspicious of. I hope that, in the coming weeks, the country's public opinion and the local authorities concerned will be able to learn more about the decisions, but if they are proven, this will be more of a criminal code. I brought this question here because I claim that for many settlements, the TOP applications were an opportunity for their settlement to develop in this development cycle. I think a lot of people are going to be disappointed, a lot of people are going to see that it was really the relationship with government representatives or other issues related to the Btk. that influenced decision-making. So, in view of this, I have repeatedly tabled many amendments to my constituency, including amendments to the smaller settlements of my constituency, Varbo, Parasnya, Radostyán, Sajólászlófalva and Sajólászlóbábony. I ask you to consider at least a few of these, contrary to previous years' practice, and I ask you to support these proposals. Believe me, all of these are questions, all of the proposals I'm going to make today, which, by the way, is a legitimate and worthy demand. The demands that the settlements have been pushing for years are just often left out from the subjectively operated by you, let's say gently, because I could say more harshly, so they are excluded from the subjective decision-making system. So what I can say is that we do not consider this budget worthy of adoption in this form, this budget in this form is a budget of corruption and poverty, which you have placed on the table in an environment where the growth of Europe would give Hungary much more opportunities. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Sándor Burány and István Tukacs applaud.]]
u2017-05-18-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Attila Móring, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, According to the Government decision on the provision of budget resources for the creation of defence expenditure and long-term planning, a significant increase of around 21 per cent compared to the previous year's appropriations will be observed in 2018. According to the 2018 Budget Act, the main funding amount for the Ministry of Defence is HUF 393 billion and the total expenditure is HUF 427 billion. The Ministry of Defence's 2018 budget proposal also covers salary and wage developments in the context of careers announced in recognition of the appreciation of public employees, the 5 per cent salary development in 2018 for soldiers as a continuation of the military career model, as well as the 2018 expenditure on civil protection allowances for civil servants and the wage development of teachers and health workers. Due to the significant expansion of the framework, it is planned to spend HUF 94.6 billion on development expenditure in 2018. That's 22 percent of the total planned expenditure. The budget will provide funding for the continuation of the development programmes started in previous years and for the 2018 pace of the implementation of the 2026. Zrínyi programme for defence and force development, which was launched by the portfolio in 2017. Protection of the country is a national matter. As a result of this principle, social support, addressing civil citizens and strengthening the system of defence and social relations are an important element of the implementation of the Zrínyi 2026. It is also a major component of the programme to maintain and expand the voluntary territorial reserve system and to strengthen the relationship between defence and society. Supporting the Defence Sports Alliance and civil society organisations is one of the tools for placing the renewable reserve system on a wider base, strengthening the relationship between defence and society. The Defence Sports Association was held by the National Assembly in CXXXII of 2016 on the Defence Sports Federation. established by law, specifying the tasks to be carried out by defence sports in order to acquire defence knowledge by participating in defence education programmes. For this reason, in the budget of the chapter in 2018 the support of the Public Defence Sports Federation was designed as a new element, which will enable the organisation to act as a mediator between the defence and society. The Defence Sports Association can complement and underpin the training and preparation of young people who wish to enter the voluntary reserve system, to take part in the protection of their country. The other key element of the programme is the maintenance and development of the capabilities resulting from the basic order of defence and the provision of the capabilities offered to NATO. The 2018 budget takes account of the development of air, air defence and ground transport capabilities, and has been designed to cover the expenditure necessary for the installation of soldiers and the development of the special operational capability. In 2018, a barracks development concept will be launched to improve the living and working conditions of soldiers, whose primary objective is to improve the living and working conditions of personnel, to renovate the housing buildings of military objects, and to provide training, food, health and logistical care. The 2018 budget proposal includes, among other things, the rental of Gripen machines, the purchase of military Radio VHF, the purchase of advanced off-road vehicles, the modernisation of the road freight vehicle park, the modernisation of the Mistral weapons system and the coverage of the complex IT development programme. [[10.10]] The development work of the Pápa Base Airport will continue as part of the development of the Air Force, as well as the helicopter modernisation programmes launched in 2017. In order to ensure the safety and protection of Hungary and the Hungarian people, it is justified to increase the number of Hungarian defences. The budget proposal covers the work of 26 753 soldiers, civil servants and government officials with a staff increase of 1020 compared to 2017. With regard to international tasks, the following year's budget proposal calculated the involvement of the Islamic State terrorist organisation, the expenditure necessary for proportionate participation in operations in Afghanistan in line with the intensity of NATO military operations, and provides resources to maintain the presence in the Balkans, Africa. More resources will also be available to implement priority international practices and training than in 2017. In the 2018 budget, mass immigration-related and border-protection tasks will also be financed under the chapter-based appropriations to be set up in the chapter budget. For HM, a well-predictable, GDP-to-GDP-related budget expansion, according to the government's decision, created the possibility to increase the resources to provide the military forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces with independent, own-owned and central procurement, thus ensuring a higher level of quality of the conditions necessary for the work of personnel in order to improve the accommodation conditions of military organizations in 2018. In order to ensure that as much of the resources available from the domestic budget can be used with a focus on actual military development, the portfolio intends to implement non-war technical developments by involving EU funds available for the EU 2014-2020 programming period. The bill grants the Minister of Defence the right to redeploy within the appropriations of the chapter in order to carry out the tasks arising from international engagement and to pursue the objectives of military development to NATO. The draft law creates safe conditions for the operation and development of the Hungarian Defence Forces in 2018, for the safety of all of us. I therefore ask that you support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-18-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a proper speech. Here you go, notary.
u2017-05-18-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I would like to continue where our colleague Dénes Galambos left off, and he spoke about the fact that municipal funding is good, good and sufficient in all respects. I must say that our fellow Member is sadly wrong, unfortunately the overall picture is not so good. I would like to continue to detail this point by point. I am very pleased that, by the way, Secretary of State Pogács is also in this Chamber. I hope he can provide us with some substantial additional information. I fear that in many ways I will have to confirm my words. I should point out, first of all, that the general operating support of municipalities, which serves a number of things, the operation of the offices and the operation of the municipalities, in particular, provides the municipalities with far from sufficient resources in terms of the operation of the offices, on the basis of the recognised number of civil servants. This was the case before, the number of this normative, its proportion has not changed for years. Yes, but last year, according to the November 2016 wage agreement, there was an unforeseen extra cost, burden and additional burden for municipalities. This is because of the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, the resources allocated to this framework are now really far below what the municipalities actually have to pay. We initiated this earlier, in the context of a parliamentary decision, with regard to the amendment of the 2017 Budget Act, and when the government also submitted amendments to the 2017 Budget Act, we also tabled such an amendment. Unfortunately, we need to see that there is no change in this issue in the 2018 budget. I very much hope that it will not be a forbidden illustration if I show what the 2017 civil servant pay table looks like now. [[He's showing me a printed card.]] This is Annex 6 to the budget, and this is also closely related to this issue. I must also add that until 2016 and even in 2017, the basic salary of civil servants has not increased, which we know has not been increased in Hungary since 2008 since the Gyurcsányek concluded that shameful IMF pact. So these people whose wages I'm talking about, both civil servants and civil servants, have not been able to make any real progress on their own wages since then. Here too, in this table, we need to look at public servants [[He presented the table several times during the speech.]] that in the first 4-5 categories virtually everyone who comes to public service in this sense will receive the same amount of wages on the first working day of his life and on the last working day of his life. So someone who starts working with 8 generals, or with a secondary education, works with a female employee, say, for 40 years, they get the minimum allowance. So the career model offered by Fidesz in the public sector now seems to be a minimum wage, then obviously some kind of minimum pension, and that is the minimum life they are destined for. Therefore, since this is unacceptable, and since we cannot support it in any sense, we have tabled, on the one hand, an amendment on the increase in the basic salary of civil servants, now finally in a meaningful way, and not by passing it on to the municipalities, whether they can pay for it or not, or not, but, in fact, be defined in the budget law, in accordance with the demands of trade unions, at least a 20% increase. In fact, since the public service wage bill thus makes no sense in this form, the figures currently shown in green mean that about 60-70 percent of the board receives the same wage. Next year, this will deteriorate in so far as it is no longer 60 to 70 percent, but nearly 80 percent will receive the same wage. So it doesn't make any sense in this sense, in fact I could safely remove this Annex 6 from the budget, unless our amendment is accepted to be tied to the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. So in the first payment class, in each case in the first row, the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage should be added each time and the additional multipliers should be set. This means that not only within a payment department, it is a very harsh wage tension within a column, but also in different payment categories it is a very harsh wage tension, since anyone who has completed, say, a high school and a graduation, but also those who have an academic degree, is paid the same amount of wages. So no matter how many years he's worked, no matter what degree he's got, he gets the same salary. Obviously, this may be supplemented by a certain language supplement, management allowance, certain allowances granted by the employer, by the municipality, but these allowances are not calculated for the real wage, they will not result in a pension; this is not the real salary. [[10.20]] So these allowances should be paid once and for all. This is also linked to what was said in the debate the day before yesterday. At that time, it was Minister of State Banai who said that we should not feel so sorry for the people working in the public sector, because there will be more wages for 550,000 people who are employed next year. Yes, there will be more wages, we can talk about 800-850,000 people, and compared to that, there will be a slight increase in wages, but behind this is a truly tragic situation, what I just showed you: these people will receive a minimum allowance. Of course their wages are rising, but it can't create existance for a whole family. Imagine two officials getting married, having one or two children, then all members of that family will be on the minimum living or the minimum living. Therefore, I believe that it is important to formulate and incorporate differences in the way that I have just said in the budget. In the future, I would like to say a word or two about the freedom of management of municipalities, although it is also related to what has already been said, but I would also like to make this clear on one point. In particular, it is the resident part of the vehicle tax. In the previous years, until two or three years ago, the car tax, which is collected by the municipalities, remained 100 percent as revenue in the municipalities. Now, that's over, and since the amendment a few years ago, we've only been talking about 40 percent of it, so the work remains with the local authorities, because they keep records, they collect these funds, but they have to forward a significant part of it to the central budget. This is an unacceptable thing in so far as the Fundamental Law, but also the sectoral law, the municipal law, is about giving the municipalities the freedom of farming, but if we also take away their own income - and I will talk about it later - I will count on the car tax, because they are collecting it, in fact, we will limit their margin of manoeuvre until infinity, because otherwise there is not enough money to carry out compulsory municipal tasks, so there is still the development that is actually necessary in individual municipalities. Here, too, a very long list of things that could be developed in particular settlements has recently been mentioned by my dear fellow Member. Yes, local residents know this very well, and local decision makers know it, and they could handle it, and they would have the right room for manoeuvre today, for example, in such a way that they can get this car tax on the spot. One more point relates to this: this is the solidarity contribution, rather than the larger settlements. It's a new kind of tax, let's say, that the municipalities have to bear. It is a matter that, after the amendment of the Public Education Act, it is now up to the state not only to maintain the schools but also to operate them. When municipalities receive a task as a mandatory task, the central budget generally supports these mandatory municipal tasks in the framework of task financing to some extent, as this is what the law is about, this is what the sectoral law is about, but there is no mention of it, either in the Fundamental Law or in the municipal law, that if we take away a task, we even take money from the municipalities. This is a completely nonsensical state, in our view, we believe, otherwise, an anti-law state, since the link between the central subsystem and the municipal sub-scheme could only be achieved under the two-thirds law if the central sub-scheme supports the municipalities and the municipalities' own revenues, which you are now abstracting from here, would serve to carry out their mandatory duties on the ground, but you are drawing them from this particular revenue. I very much hope that the Constitutional Court will establish this violation of the basic law as soon as possible, and that the HUF 40 billion that you have planned for the budget for next year, which you intend to withdraw from the municipalities in this way, will no longer be possible. To my comments on this, Minister of State Banai said that, for example, in other smaller settlements, they will finance nursery development. Please, just because an abstract revenue appears in the central budget doesn't mean that it serves solidarity, but that withdrawal is illegal, that's for sure. So, in the case of illegally abstracted money, even if it were to be used for a good purpose, it is still illegal to withdraw, so we cannot support it in any way. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-22	Thank you very much, notary. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Richárd Hörcsik is coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-18-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, When the country's budget is placed on Parliament's table, it is worth mentioning that the right of elected Members to determine the budget is also the oldest authority. However, it is worth talking about the fact that the budget, just like in a large family, is the definition of the family, the big family, the country's financial plan, in which we account for our expectations and realities, and then monitor the implementation of the plan. Just as every forward-looking person in his life has made plans, sets goals, so must we, I believe, look forward and decide the fate of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, As Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I think that in this debate on the budget, I should first of all be talking about how the European Union appears in Hungary's financial perspective, what progress, what changes it is worth to draw attention to next year's budget, which might help our fellow citizens or entrepreneurs who want to use EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that Hungary and the European Union's so-called budgetary relations are being reviewed not only by the parliamentary debate on the current budget, because I remind my fellow Members that we can discuss the use of EU funds twice a year in a political debate day at the government's initiative. As I recall, the last such debate took place here on 27 March, within the walls of this House. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the opportunities of our membership in the EU, be the list of financial resources, should be discussed as often and as widely as possible, because understanding and understanding EU processes with voters is, I think, of particular importance. Ladies and gentlemen, During the EU's 2014-2020 development period, we have set ourselves the goal of primarily pursuing projects for economic development and employment growth. The government is determined to organise this seven-year period very purposefully. As a result, I would like to remind my fellow Members that, by 31 March, they announced all the resources at our disposal, and in the 508 calls for proposals, the government has set an average of 4 percent higher than the available framework, in order to ensure that EU funds are fully drawn up, this should not be a problem for entrepreneurs. It is therefore planned that 85 per cent of the available resources will be decided by the end of 2017. Studying the bill submitted, I see, as has been said in the Minister's exposé, that, in addition to the budget for people from work, can also be called the budget for EU funds, as we can see that next year will be an opportunity to pay a higher proportion of EU funds than ever before. [[10.30]] We see from the figures that the government plans to pay more EU funding than ever before, precisely HUF 2418 billion through the budget. I believe that payment of this magnitude was the last case in 2015, when the two development cycles came together, raising the framework that could be used. The high level of expected payments therefore reflects the government's commitment to the payment of a major proportion of EU funds by the end of 2018 for the period up to 2020. In order to achieve this goal, it is also possible, in accordance with the legislation, to cover all available EU support frameworks with a commitment and to undertake, with the Government's agreement, a so-called additional commitment to use all resources. This shows that we have learned from the mistakes of the last seven-year EU cycle, the difficulties of payments. This means that the volume of payments for 2018 is expected to exceed even the outstandingly high values of previous years, maintaining the momentum of economic growth, as we also see that the government intends to use 60% of development resources to increase employment and competitiveness. EU funds contribute to economic growth, thus achieving 13 percent investment and 4.3 percent GDP growth next year. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal for a budget law seeks to prevent the risk that we have seen before, which may result from the uncertainty of resources from the European Commission. For example, if for some reason the transfers from the EU institution were stuck, as we have seen in the last cycle and in the past period, that the Hungarian government had often been in the debate with the European Commission, and by the time it was clarified, thank God, 95-98 percent of them had happened, it took time. I believe that this risk is being avoided by this budget, because to this end, it introduces a kind of innovation in the planning of the budget for 2018; as a kind of innovation, the revenue from the EU resource does not fall into the chapter of EU development as it was before, but is uniformly reflected in the direct revenue of the budget. The advantage of this method of planning, according to economists, is that expenditure financed from the EU development budget can be decoupled from the rate of arrival of EU revenue. In order to ensure payment, the XLII. Other revenue to be entered in Chapter 1 may also be used for the central budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The Partnership Agreement with the EU provides for a total of EUR 25 billion for Hungary - as we have heard from the Minister earlier - which, together with the necessary domestic co-financing and the so-called agricultural subsidies paid out of the budget, represents a total development of HUF 12 000 billion over the period 2014-2020. Of course, we could ask the poetic question of how beautiful it is to draw and spend these huge resources, but how much the standard of living of the average citizen increases after using the resources. After all, the majority of people feel this development through their own welfare and the improvement of their family's quality of life. That is why I think that, after the sum of the large EU funds mentioned above, it is also worth mentioning with a detour what it means, even in a European comparison, this budget in the everyday lives of families. We have also seen it, and my fellow Members have repeatedly said that the government's aim is to make Hungary a family-friendly country, and that is why it has decided to introduce a unique family tax in Europe, which is already, write and say, helping nearly a million families. Then, for example, there is the family tax relief for two children, which increases to HUF 35,000 a month, and, yes, there will be a first-married tax reduction next year. Or, for example, I could mention that more money will be available for home creation, HUF 226 billion. Furthermore, family farming is supported by new tax cuts. I will not go further, since many of these things could be mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, But let's get back to European space. If, for example, we look at the Maastricht criteria mentioned a lot in the next year's budget, for example, I believe that we have nothing to be ashamed of, since the budget deficit remains below the 3% threshold and is expected to decrease by 2.4 percent of GDP, and the public debt-to-GDP ratio is reduced to 69,5 percent from 71.4 percent this year. I should also like to mention the important issue of EU budgetary relations: the addition of agricultural market and direct producer support. Here I would like to mention the study carried out by KPMG, which just confirms that in the past, the role of EU transfers in agriculture has largely been the replacement of income and the maintenance of companies. This is why the government is trying to put small and medium-sized enterprises, but still sustainable in terms of economy, in the current cycle. In addition to the budget, therefore, direct payments to farmers could amount to HUF 425 billion next year. 425 billion forints! Is it too much or not enough? This single item alone is well above the HUF 310 billion contribution that Hungary pays to the EU budget each year. So these numbers, I believe, speak for themselves. So Hungary's net position is good, all right. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to mention the operational programme for economic development and innovation, which is called the GINOP, one of the most important objectives of which is that the employment rate reaches 75%. It is important that we do not stop here, because our goal is to achieve full employment, and the objective of the civilian government is to replace aid from the beginning. The GINOP funds were announced for HUF 2592 billion by 31 March 2017, which is more than a hundred percent of the framework, and a commitment of HUF 2124 billion will be made by the end of 2017, and the remaining HUF 468 billion will be planned by the government and the managing authority for 2018. So GINOP can receive nearly 20,000 support requests by the end of the year. So far, 4500 positive supporters have made a decision, 4370 of which have already signed a contract and we can report almost - write and say - a HUF 600 billion payment. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that EU development and resources benefit society and the whole country, contribute to economic growth and do promote employment growth. EU funds for Hungary provide an important opportunity to increase the competitiveness of Hungary and reduce regional disparities. That is why I am asking you to look at the budget with EU glasses to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary István Arrowmaker applied for a speech. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[10.40]]
u2017-05-18-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to speak more generally about how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade intends to contribute to the development of the Hungarian economy and external relations in 2018. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, in line with important tasks for the implementation of the Government's key economic policy objectives, foreign capital inflows and the promotion of expansion investments remain crucial. It is a priority to attract productive investments that generate additional supplies for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, create jobs or bring new technology and a modern culture of production to Hungary. In order to ensure that the labour shortage in individual regions does not create a competitive disadvantage for companies in Hungary, the support of technologically intensive and R &amp; D investments in Hungary is also given particular attention. The increase in Hungarian exports is also our key external economic objective. The KKM is the Hungarian National Trading House Zrt., the MNKH and the Hungarian National Trading House. He's taking care of it on his way. It is important that Hungarian exporters have effective financing and insurance arrangements available through Eximbank Zrt. and Mehib Zrt. Our goal and task in 2018 is to promote Hungarian culture and science abroad, improve Hungary's judgement and thus promote our foreign economic and foreign policy goals. At the chapter level in the field of cultural diplomacy, the primary task is the implementation of the programmes that the government has given priority, such as the continuation of the Kodály Memorial Programme, the Publishing Hungary programme for the dissemination of Hungarian literature abroad and the presentation of the importance of Central European cooperation in relation to the Hungarian V4 Presidency. In 2018, we plan to open the guest education network and continue the Balassi Scholarship Programme, which also serves national policy goals. One of the main tasks in the field of science diplomacy is to present our country as an innovative, competitive country with a serious scientific background, thus contributing to the promotion of cooperation in higher education and research, increasing student mobility into our country, and attracting developments in Hungary's R &amp; D &amp; I potential. The priority event of the Hungarian diplomacy is the Hungarian presidency of the Visegrad Group between 1 July 2017 and 30 June 2018 in addition to the coordination of the KKM. In the following year, the dynamics of political and economic relations with neighbouring countries and the increase of the Hungarian external trade activity continue to be highlighted beyond the V4 role in our region. Particular emphasis will be placed on deepening cooperation with countries affected by migration in the Western Balkans. Over the past period, the internal situation of several countries in the region has been shaken, and restoring their stability is a strategic goal for us. Maintaining and enhancing the intensity of existing bilateral political, economic and cultural relations with European countries and North America, in particular with the United States, requires improvements. In the context of belonging to the European and Euroatlantic Community of Value and Interest, the portfolio continues to pay particular attention to EU and NATO Member States, including our obligations and bilateral relations arising from our membership of these international organisations. We are increasingly building our relations with the countries of eastern opening, and the network of foreign representations has also increased significantly. China's role has continued to grow for our country, and the expansion of the relationship with Russia, which is key to Hungary's energy supply, cannot be neglected. In the South Caucasus and Central Asia, further steps should be taken to restore the historical past, the former level of relations based on common interests, and to explore alternative markets. Hungary must continue to address the economic impact of the crisis in Ukraine and the EU's restrictive measures against Russia and the counter-sanctions imposed by Moscow. The political results of the southern opening are already reflected in external trade. In Asia and the Middle East, we have further strengthened our traditional presence in Africa and Latin America by opening foreign representations. Thus, our relations with these regions are intensifying. In 2018, Hungary's foreign economic positions will continue to be strengthened, building on the results so far. This year's and next year's high-priority goals will be reflected in the operation of the JRC's external representation network. The implementation of national political goals and the administration of the affairs of Hungarian citizens represent a significant proportion of the operation of foreign representations. The SMEM's budget proposals in the consular area will help to strengthen the consular service and improve the quality of consular services. The development of the consular service will take place in two steps with significant human resources and technical expansion from 2018. Our aim is that Hungarian citizens living abroad can access the services of the Hungarian State under the same or almost identical conditions as citizens living in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Ákos Hadházy, from the LMP Group, will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-18-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already heard many slogans about the budget, and I said a few words yesterday; I think it might be best said that this budget is not for people who live from work, but for those who live from the work of others, and it is also possible to say that this is the budget of the tiny section marked with the star, because we see on huge advertising platforms how good it will be for everyone here, but it would be fair to say that this is not really an offer, so let us read the fine print part, this budget is the fine print part. I would like to talk about health expenditure, which you may say more than anything else, that a few weeks before the real draft budget came out, a few days before that, the government members simply couldn't figure out how much money would be in it. János Lázár said that there will be HUF 180 billion more in the budget under the health line, and the Secretary of State said that there will be HUF 150-200 billion more. The total says a lot: 102 billion forints, a little bit higher the amount that can be spent on health care. However, the fact that these supposedly rather influential people did not know how much money this would be tells us a great deal. It's gonna be a little more money, but it's not enough at all, and it shows very well that the government has everything-everything-more important than people's recovery than people's lives. There are numbers involved in such a debate. I would perhaps not say the money first, but a figure: if we compare the data with the 14 most advanced countries about how many people die of preventable diseases, there are diseases that can be prevented - then twice as many people die of disease that can be prevented in Hungary. It is even worse, and even more shocking, and it says even more about the situation in Hungary: two and a half times more people die of a cureable disease - a disease that could have been cured - in Hungary, two and a half times more people die than in the 14 most advanced countries of the Union. This budget does not provide a remedy for any of the problems - to say it in style - nor does it care about prevention or healing, without any progress in 2018, even though prevention itself has financial implications, as it also requires money. Let me tell you one thing: in Hungary ten thousand people die, ten thousand people die - and there is a consensus among the professional participants, ten thousand people die - because of air pollution, the highest mortality rate has been recorded in January of last year. [[10.50]] It is associated with the flu, but it is associated with the flu and with the very flashy pollution and air pollution data. So when you're playing with numbers here, saving numbers and saving on health care, saving on prevention, you can really measure the number of deaths that the government's alibi policy would make, and which, in the case of real politics, could be a much lower number. Of course, I think it is clear to everyone today that if we look not at prevention but at healing, then we know how little money is in health care. This budget doesn't solve that either. I was at the doctor's yesterday, and the nurse just got her payroll. I think he knew who I was, and he didn't say it was for a reason that 166,000 forints was the wage he received. She has worked for 20 years, of which 15 years in trauma, she worked under very difficult conditions, and 166,000 forints for her wages. The government doesn't really make a difference. He has been saying for years how many increases there are, but those who work there know very well that there is, in principle, some increase on paper, but then it is reduced in supplements, reducing the possibility of overtime and otherwise. So, in fact, what these people get is not really growing. We see how the paramedics walked. We see that there are also people working in hospitals who do not work directly with the patient, and their wages are not even included in plans. It is also important to talk about the fact that this dreary building of Hungarian health care is still standing, and in such financial circumstances it is still the result of the enormous work of many professionals. These experts are now being made impossible by the government in silence. As long as we talk, the refugee problem is obviously a real problem, and obviously these are also dangers, but as long as we talk about it for weeks, months, years, quietly, the government shuts down the National Health Insurance Fund itself, it shuts down a series of backup institutions, the SAO practically plowed in. He always says it's going to be good financially. We do not see any indication of why the destruction of these institutions, the systemic, methodical and indefensible, inexplicable destruction of these institutions would be good. However, it is a good thing that professionals who, despite the shameful financial situation, try to organise health care should also leave this area. Finally, the financial situation in health care could be talked about a lot, but I think that it is not the speech that matters, but the person who doubts that should go to the clinics and go to hospitals. I've counted, in the last few weeks, I've been going to ten of these institutions in the bathroom. None of them had toilet paper, and none had disinfectant, hand sanitizer. I think that says more than any number. The LMP will propose the establishment of a dedicated development fund for these basic hygiene tools. It is a shame that we have a government that has been governing for almost seven years and has not been able to solve the problem of having toilet paper and hand sanitizer in hospital bathrooms. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-18-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the above, Congresswoman Hegedűs touched on the budget of the municipalities, and in connection with this I would like to say a few words about the municipal budget. At the very least, this government coalition has done a great deal to restore the functioning of the municipalities and to create the functioning of the municipalities at all. After all, through the transfer of loans, the municipalities were freed from a budgetary, development and operational budget trap that gave them the opportunity to make themselves available to the local authorities, whether they were able to apply for self-employment or domestic tenders, or through regulation, by setting up task financing, we created a situation in which the municipalities could solve the operation without credit. We have prevented an extremely damaging process in which the municipalities have solved their daily operations by using wealth or borrowing. In addition, municipalities that were otherwise unable to take out loans or did not need to take out loans received support from a budget of more than HUF 40 billion in order to be able to carry out outstanding developments or improvements that were provided by other municipalities with borrowing. I consider it very important that this budget goes along the lines of the principles of task-based funding established in 2013. And I think it is very important that we stick to the basic values and principles when we said that, when developing task-based funding, and after rethinking tasks and tasks between municipalities and the state, the municipalities, if they have to carry out an additional task, provide resources for this. In 2018, the Hungarian municipal system is expected to manage and manage some HUF 2937 billion. Of this, about HUF 695 billion is what the central budget contains and the municipalities will receive from the budget. This amount is about 8.5 percent higher than the previous year. This is also an indication and I consider it important to emphasise that new expenditures or expenditure related to tasks, which appear, are secured and covered by this increase. The budget will ensure that the costs and burdens arising from the moving forward of the teaching career, from its next stop, can be paid to local authorities, both for pre-school educators and for skilled staff. However, it is equally true that workers in the social sector can continue to receive consolidated sectoral allowances according to the new values. The municipalities will receive the necessary budgetary support for this. A very serious, important, family policy-related step, I think, is the social step of expanding nursery care, the intention of developing nursery care. A very important step is that the funding of nursery care also becomes task-based funding. I think everyone who has dealt with municipal funding well knows that one of the worst-funded items in the case of municipalities and most of the budget problems was nursery care and ensuring this. Similarly, or at least in the logic of the budget law that is now before us, following preschool funding, it will significantly change nursery funding. As we have seen in the kindergarten case, this has improved the situation of municipalities, they have received support corresponding to real costs, and we can now achieve this in nursery care. Children's food has already been highlighted by several people today, and I think that the budgetary debate will be discussed several times, the resources needed for this will be given to the municipalities, and the government will do everything in its power to ensure that every child in need can eat at least once a day, and not only during the school period, not only during the diligence period, but every day of the year. [[11.00]] The fairness of the set-off system and the extent and issue of the solidarity contribution have been raised by the honourable Member. The funding of the municipal system in Hungary today - and this has been the case for long and long decades - has basically been based on two pillars, and an additional, auxiliary support system gives the assurance that municipalities will always remain operational. The two main pillars are: one part of the state budget grants and the other part of the own revenue, and one part of the own revenue should be used by the municipalities to carry out compulsory or voluntary duties. There is always, at every municipal forum and during discussions with the mayors, the fairness of the local tax and business tax system in Hungary today, as we know that there is not everything and perhaps not every settlement or every part of the country to achieve the same business taxing capacity. So there is a need to operate a sort of balancing mechanism, to involve and contribute to the development of more affluent settlements, settlements with better income. This is why it is necessary to have this balancing mechanism, this mechanism of set-off and supplementing, where, otherwise, a positive shift for municipalities with low income potential is that the level of the supplement increases in the two lowest categories, and it is beneficial that, up to the tax power of HUF 12 500, the set-off does not affect the municipalities. The institutions, the public maintenance and operation of school institutions, clearly affected municipal budgets in a positive way, with the exception of those municipalities, which are, of course, differentiated in different ways, which are obliged to pay the solidarity contribution. These are the highest tax revenue, the best-mode municipalities. As I have just mentioned, in these municipalities, we believe that it is absolutely necessary for them to be involved in mitigating and supplementing the differences existing in the operation of the municipal system, the differences in the tax system and in their own capacity to produce taxes. However, it must be seen that the 3 000 municipalities - and the municipalities from which they once held schools - have been freed from the burden of running schools, and these budget lines were present there. Everyone has said in every budget debate, and I have looked into the fact that 30-40-50 in school operation depends on how many people have studied at school, up to 60 percent of the municipal supplement was necessary to enable schools to operate by local authorities. This addition is not necessary today, it is effective in their budget for an remaining item. The same is true of the great ones, where similar changes have occurred in hospital maintenance. With regard to the guaranteed minimum wage and wage increases: on the one hand, the 2017 Budget Act allows the municipalities to determine the salary base for themselves. This is always an exciting debate, as everyone is asking for the autonomy of the local government system and for its decision-making competences to be retained. In terms of wages, a large proportion of the municipalities, the larger employers and the larger employers, were clearly living, as the methods in which they were able to do so differed from the salaries provided by the salary fund, and sometimes differed significantly. It is now possible to hijack the wages so far with the salary. The extra budgetary expenditure resulting from the guaranteed minimum wage or the increase in the minimum wage will be compensated and compensated by the government individually, i.e. according to real use and real needs. In summary this year, the government examines how much of the contribution reduction will remain in the municipality in the whole sphere, so what the positive impact is, what the budget expenditure surplus is to be paid for the wage increase, and the difference will be reimbursed by the budget up to HUF 32 thousand/person tax power 100 percent and HUF 64 thousand tax power 50 percent. So these are for the settlements. As we have promised, the municipalities will also receive the allowance for the wage differential resulting from the mayor's wage increase. As I said at the beginning, so we stick to the fact that the municipalities should take on or receive from the State another task or raise wages, then the budget will cover the costs of this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In particular, I would like to talk about the budget of the defence chapter in the coming minutes and most importantly about the Hungarian Defence Forces. We hear a lot from the government saying that defence is a national matter, which is also enshrined in law. I would very much like this to be seen in action, and this is something that they actually mean, and we would not only hear it in words. I must say that it is not apparent from the 2018 budget that the government is actually serious about this. First of all, allow me to thank both our soldiers and the defence workers here among the walls of this House again for their position and commitment to their service, because it is clear that the Hungarian Defence Office is still operational because they are so committed to their task, and unfortunately in a very difficult environment, which is, of course, caused not only by the growth of security challenges, but also by the state of the Hungarian Defence Service and the lack of technical means. What are these circumstances? We talk about this a lot, and I would just like to mention it in headlines. At least 6000 people are now understaffed by the Hungarian Defence Forces. Some experts estimate that this could reach 8000 people. The sixth year is now the year 2017, when the Hungarian Defense budget is below 1 percent. There have been loss of ability in several areas, and, as I have already mentioned, the technical tools of the Hungarian Defence Forces have grown very old. What would be expected from a 2018 budget is to at least remedy this situation, but it would require huge improvements, both in terms of financial expenditure and in order to ensure the security of Hungary, as well as the efforts that could create a concept that would allow these resources to be used effectively to guarantee the security of Hungary. Unfortunately, none of these two elements are shown in the 2018 budget, because it has to be acknowledged that even though the budget is slightly above 1 percent of GDP, even this minimum amount does not show exactly what it will be spent on next year. I would add that we have not seen the closing account for years now, we do not have the presentation and evaluation of the previous year before discussing the next year's budget. The same is the case with the Hungarian Defence Office, of course, that we are talking about anything at the HM chapter with no idea what the use of resources looked like in 2016 and what has been achieved. Obviously, we can take a look at it. Experience shows insufficient use of resources, especially since very few sources were already available. So it is clear that there is a greater need to increase the Hungarian Defence budget. [[11.10]] And what does the explanation of this chapter refer to? I would like to ask the Secretary of State again where he is at all. Who saw this? What's in it? Why don't you discuss it with the Defense Committee? Why is this proposal not presented to those concerned? I don't even know how that came together. We don't know any specifics, just the few sentences that the press has said about this at all. On this basis, however, the picture is worrying, since the development of a spatial reserve system is the primary priority for the government, and obviously in this context both the Defence Sports Association and, I imagine, their development of the range would be included. So this is the most important thing for defence political leadership. I think it is quite worrying, and it is not professionally justified, because we know that while this goal, while the professional population of the Hungarian Defence Forces has been drastically reduced, there is a huge shortage of numbers and there are very drastic circumstances that need to be improved urgently. It is a question of the number of people, as Mr Moring mentioned here that the number of people is increasing, I would like to say that the number has increased by 1020 people on paper. But there are no more soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and the funds are assigned to it in the first place, so that when the majority of the Parliament's governing majority adopted this resolution to increase the number of defences with this 1020, the explanatory statement was mainly the establishment of this territorial reserve system, which, by the way, I would stress that we do not know anything about it. Well, let's talk about this a little bit. It is not known whether this is the transformation of the existing voluntary reserve system or the development of a parallel reserve system. I think we should at least clear that up at the beginning. And the other is that I can only hope that the government does not throw itself into such illusions that there can be any substantial increase in the ability to train 20,000 volunteers. People who receive 30 days of training will not be able to replace the huge shortage of professional staff. As well as the professional ones, but most of the contract staff are missing a lot. So they simply can't be replaced, but they take a lot of resources to create a new reserve system. So I could sum it up by creating a parallel force that, by the way, the ground and the air force are not, you might say, rotting. I don't think you can agree with that. I would like to say here that some kind of voluntary reserve system is needed, a system based on a realistic, well-functioning, proper motivational system, absolute volunteering, compared to the number of forces. None of this is what the government has set out to do. I think that it is not necessary to pursue the cherished dreams of a politician, but rather to define a concept, a development priorities that are otherwise agreed with the profession. Of course, the frameworks need to be defined by policy. The problem is, for the time being, it doesn't seem to be a strategy concept that can be based on for decades. And obviously now there is a situation where there should be a fire; there is nothing that can be done, more precisely you are not taking measures. In addition, in the area reserve system, this could occupy enormous capacities from the troops, as it was said that training would take place, for example, in the troops. They're already working on an amazing load, already having a huge lack of resources, and even this infrastructure and this logistics would be equipped with a completely new system, which, I'm telling you once again, will not cause any more security gains. This is maximum numerically detectable statistics production, by the way, nothing else. I mean, for example, where would a backup system like this get weapons for training? Where, for example, do these people get clothing when the clothing store is not even loaded in the case of professional stock, they cannot buy the practitioner, they cannot buy the boots? It's not charged because the Ministry doesn't pay for it, by the way. On the other hand, what they get as an allowance in the checkbook is the money they could buy it from, what they need for their work, or what they got, at least they can't spend it, and countless people have the problem of losing the money that was in this checkbook. So as long as they cannot provide this to the army, the professional staff, I would be very interested to know where, for example, a reserve system of 20,000 people would have the necessary equipment or clothing. So I understand that here this new idea is considered an entrance to recruitment. I wouldn't call it a concept, because we don't know anything about it, but that's not what makes recruitment more effective. It would make it more effective if young people and interested people found a proper perspective in the Hungarian Defence Office. This requires the competitiveness of salaries, but not only social benefits, they are also necessary, but they need to find technical modernisation and a professional perspective. I would like to highlight a few figures from the budget. It will be 72 billion forints in stockpiling expenses that are not actually labeled. Last year it was 55 billion. It wasn't even labeled. More precisely, this year is 55 billion; it was not labeled, we do not see what I would spend. However, I am concerned that the program, which I stress once again, has never seen, will take 40 billion forints. It'll cost you 40 billion forints without knowing what that is. By the way, 25 billion forints in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration. But here we are again talking about the fact that the government is providing resources for an increase in tasks, and not for the proper, so for the development of basic tasks, for the basic tasks, they are not developing them by means. So transparency is certainly not guaranteed, and I think that every single forint of taxpayers that people want to protect is in place in the Hungarian Defence Service, and I just really hope that no one is trying to put away these funds, which is marked for example in accumulation expenses. Of course, if this happens, there will be serious consequences. The General Force Command is assigned to all expenses plus 600 million forints, which is minimal. So for the operation of the troops - we are talking about tens of units - this is a minimum of money. So it's clear from here that there's a larger amount of money in a stockpiling issue, you don't know what it's spent on, you don't know what the improvements would be, and in the meantime, the day-to-day operation of which the troops can operate is incredibly low, minimal, so they're throwing crumbs at them for operation. I think that another 5 percent of the salary development is a good thing, a reasonable thing, but defence workers also need to improve their salary. Out of personal expenses, 16 billion forints are earmarked for this 1,000-person increase, which I'm telling you, only exists on paper, so basically this money will probably not be spent there. I would also like to point out that we still need a predictable legal background, and I pointed out that we really need a concept. That is why I should also like to mention an example, such as the purchase of transport machinery. On the news, he'd buy commercial transport machines, buy jets from the Ministry of Commerce, Mr. Csányi. And it's not the first time there's been a rumor that they're not just trying to get military transport machines, they're trying to get separate government machines. It's not fair! Since the change of regime, the VIP transport has been carried out by military machines. So far, no one's ever had any problems with that, as long as these machines were working properly, obviously they were able to carry out this task. I think that if separate government machines and such jets come up here, it's nothing but a waste of money and pocketing it, and it doesn't substantially increase military capabilities. So I ask the Secretary of State to support the proposal for a resolution that I and my fellow Member Bernadett Szél submitted for the increase in the defence budget, which is about the need for the defence budget to reach 2% of GDP by the end of December 2022. [[11.20]] This is not only an ally's expectation, but also a Hungarian national interest. This requires an annual increase of 0.2 per cent and to 1.2 per cent by 2018. I think there is still an opportunity to follow this direction. It is also necessary to submit to Parliament a plan for the long-term modernisation of military technology. You have to see this, because this is a cross-border matter. It is absolutely necessary to give up the ad hoc policy and the rush that unfortunately happens in the field of defence. I continue to ask that for the victims of the Honvéd Health Fund, who are former pensioners and who are left out of this indemnification, the Ministry of Defence should also do their best for them. There is a source, last year there was HUF 2.6 billion left, which was removed from the defense wallet, because you did not use it, so there would have been a source, and surely there will be now. These people need their money back. I think there is a lot of work to be done, and the government can still change this direction for the next year. I don't have an illusion that this is going to happen, and I really want it to happen, but I don't have an illusion that this is going to happen. If not, then, of course, from 2018 another government will do this in a completely different way and along the lines of an appropriate concept. In my next speech, I would like to address another area. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-18-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, but there are also two State Secretary's logins, and under the rules of the House, the members of the Government are given priority. First I give the floor to Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State for Defence. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-18-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for thanking the Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian soldiers for their support and service every time you and the members of the opposition's benches. That's okay. Whether the defence budget exceeds 1 percent of GDP or not, or why we are in this situation, this is also an old debate between us. With a GDP of HUF 40,000 billion, HUF 427 billion is the Ministry of Defence, the budget of the defence chapter, and this does exceed 1 percent. If we look around the NATO house, we can see that only five of the 28 countries meet the expected limit of 2 percent, and very, very many countries are much lower. As a result of the 2002-2010 governance, we reached the position in 2010 that not only the Hungarian budget was weak, but also the defence budget, but the share of GDP has increased by 0.1 percent since 2016. The same applies to developments, or to what the congresswoman mentioned, that military technology has grown old. Yes, this is also the result of the doctrine of socialist governments that says that there is no need for Hungarian defence, there must be some capacity to enable soldiers to serve in missions, but security challenges do not threaten Hungary, so between 2002 and 2010, they destroyed very serious and very important abilities along with knowledge and military technology. These need to be replaced now, this is what the program Zrínyi 2026 is for, which plans to restore and build the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces in ten years, and every time it has a role and function in this, decisions on procurement have been taken before the Defence Committee. This has been the case in the past and will be the case in the next period. What rates are in the budget, we told you yesterday. 20-22 percent of the 2018 budget is being spent on development; the 30-33 percent of the budget that is being spent on operation is already a good ratio; and the rest is personnel expenditure, salaries, for which we have made very, very much progress over the past period. By 1 January 2019, the wages of soldiers will rise by 50 percent, but in the case of crews, we have taken several steps, as the Minister has decided. Last year, we raised the salary of the crew with a labour market supplement, which was incorporated into their salary this year. I therefore believe that we have also taken steps to create the strength to maintain and attract. We're always fighting a staff issue. There is an authorized number of people, there is a budget number, there is an actual number, but the number can only be increased if there is room for manoeuvre. From a certain number of the squadrons, it is not possible to simply transfer statuses or numbers somewhere else. If we take two people from a tank's crew, it's no longer mobile, it's not capable, it's not a combat vehicle. So you can't just push numbers around, you need space. The very importance of the voluntary reserve staff in connection with the districts is that they will protect their own homeland, their own village, their city, and this is another part of the voluntary reserve system. There is sufficient force and there is an appropriate opportunity to create this voluntary territorial reserve capability, the selection of commanders has been made, the training locations have been provided. We are not doing this instead of uploading both contractual and professional stock, it is another genre. If someone wants to perform a voluntary reserve service, we can't offer him the actual contract service as an alternative, because he doesn't undertake it; and our goal is to reach 20,000 people over the next ten years. I would like to ask the Congresswoman not to read newspapers about transport machines and start with the imagination of journalists. The Hungarian Army will buy transport machines, as our goal is to transport soldiers to the missions with Hungarian military transport machines. On the basis of the NATO decision, it is expected that 2 percent of GDP will be achieved by 2024 and the Hungarian government will do everything in its power to achieve this by 2024. Now this is the increase, the Hungarian Defence Office, the defence chapter budget will rise to HUF 427 billion, and this will exceed the previous year by HUF 73 billion. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Miklós Soltész, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The LMP does not have its representatives here, but it must respond to yesterday's keynote speech, and now to the comments of Mr Ákos Hadházy. When their lead speaker said his comment yesterday, I felt that we were going out of Parliament and that there was no life outside this House - he presented the state of the country and the budget for next year in such a deplorable way, despite the fact that the economy, wages and developments are constantly growing. She presented the situation in Hungary as if it were over, and Ákos Hadházy joined today. And I have nothing else to say, he lied that there would be no further development or increase in health care. It will increase by HUF 102 billion - I try to tell them, but they are not here, because they are only in there when they tell their thoughts, their lies and all other things, and then they leave the meeting room and do not want to argue. [[11.30]] The health budget will increase by HUF 102 billion in 2018. This is for public health screening, hospital investments, I stress, and also for investments in Budapest. There are huge and positive changes in this context. There will be wage increases and acquisitions of assets. If someone then says that there is no change, and otherwise in recent years there has not been a huge change in development and wage increases in health care, it simply does not live in this world. Another issue is that in the field of health, everyone who is sick or has a sick relative is in pain. He also sees that there are difficulties. You can also see that there are problems, problems, if any. But denying what improvements have been made over the past years and this year, whether in the wage area or in the building stock or in the acquisition of assets, is simply not true. They do the same for next year's budget. Once again, the health budget is rising by HUF 102 billion. And I would also like to address the socialists a little bit. They accuse the budget of helping the rich, not the poor or the needy, the fallen. I would like to point out that, indeed, this is the budget of people living in work. Over the last few years, there have been 700 thousand more people working in Hungary than under your governance, if at all it can be called government. Compared to this, the work of 700,000 more people and millions of people has led to huge and positive changes in the budget for next year in the direction of the needy and the fallen. Let me list some of these, since it affects all areas and all people. The needy are affected by an additional increase in the minimum wage of 8 percent. I don't know why they want this taken away, why they say it's nothing. It's a huge step, especially with your time. Moreover, since this year was even higher, the basis for the increase is higher in this sense, so overall, a huge change takes place in two years. But if we look at the fact that, compared to the 2010 figures, your governance, there is a very significant change in both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage. What you did at the time was that families with children had been pulled, families with two and one children had been deprived of family tax benefits, and families with three and more children had been reduced to a minimum. This is what has led to a huge change since the change of government in 2010, and this continues. I would like to point out that next year, the tax relief for families with two children will continue to change. You don't want to help me, you don't want to support me. And here I'm telling you that in your family support system, it was just over 900 billion, and next year it will reach 1900 billion forints, which means it will be more than doubled. If they say it's nothing, if it's not a change, then I'm telling you, you should be sent back to math class somewhere. However, it is also important to highlight the family home-building discount. Next year, HUF 226 billion is available. You know, socialists, you're the ones who stopped the family benefits for home creation, you're the ones who beat the shit out of it, drove people into foreign exchange and borrowing, the consequences of which, unfortunately, there's still a lot of people moaning. Once again, the government will provide HUF 226 billion in support of home creation next year. You often question the extent of daycare benefits. I would like to read the figures: in 2010 the aid was 11.1 billion, in 2017 it was 16,5 billion and next year it was 37 billion forints. It is a huge change, a huge step forward, and it supports mothers going back to work, but it supports the possibilities of child care for more needy, fallen families. Free or reduced meals. Your groupmate stands up more than once and tells us how many hundreds of thousands of people are starving in this country, how many hundreds of thousands of children are starving in this country. I would just like to tell you that, during your administration, until 2010, 32 billion forints were available for free or discount children's meals, this year it has reached 74 billion forints. This increase in support will continue next year, it will reach almost HUF 80 billion, and we will support the free and discount child meal from HUF 79.3 billion in total, within which the same huge increase has been made, and the summer and holiday children's meal has increased 2.5 times compared to your governance, since you have been under HUF 2.4 billion, we will spend HUF 6.7 billion on this next year, 2018 on this. I would very much ask you, four of you from your group are here to signal this to Congresswoman Bangóné and the others, who lie in the media in order not to receive the support of schools, kindergartens and public education institutions in general for their children's meals. That's not true. This support has increased by 2.5 times compared to your governance. I could continue the line with the free textbook. Next year, more than a million students will receive free textbooks, which is 85 percent of the students. You only had a fraction of the funding compared to that. I would like to point out one more thing, which is, to say the least, your favourite area, at least for a while, but you can't make any arguments there either. And that's a matter of pensioners. We're going to continue with the Women's 40, which you didn't support, and now you've reached nearly 200,000 people. Pensions increase by 3 percent in 2018. Obviously, this will fully monitor the expected inflation. But I would add, and it is important to stress this: Since 2010, despite the fact that we have always undertaken to keep pensions in real terms, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent in real terms. What if it's nothing more than what you've done? What if it's not more for pensioners and retired people who absolutely deserve this increase compared to what you've done? After all, either taking the 13th month's pension or the release of the bills or any action that they have taken has only made the lives of pensioners worse. I would add to Mr Mesterházy, who was part of this pre-2010 period, that pensioners can expect a pension premium in 2017 and also in 2018. [[Attila Mesterházy: Who made the law? Did you bring it?]] What means is that the 10 percent increase, I repeat once again, is that Attila Mesterházy hears it again, pensioners can count on a pension premium again this year, and they can expect a pension premium in November in 2018. I have said all this because there are accusations, sounds of words from opposition benches, mostly from the socialists and the LMP, when someone outside Parliament hears it, by simply turning on the mediation, or by some means being informed that there is a budgetary debate going on between Parliament's walls, as if it were the end of the world; as if everyone were living much worse; as if everyone should not only move forward, but move back exactly; as if the economy did not rise, which is not only said by us, but also recognised by international organisations. Would you please look at the entire budget a little more realisticly? Please acknowledge the 6-7-year-old result achieved not only by this government, but also by millions of Hungarian people, and do not dispute the opportunity, the fantastic change that is happening, we can safely say, for the sake of health care, public education and generally the fallen people, or, I add, for the sake of families. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-05-18-36	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to respond briefly to your response. He mentioned the possibility of EU applications in relation to local government development programmes. [[11.40]] I cannot leave this question without saying that, unfortunately, a rather strong, unfair and not good partiality of our experience regarding the evaluation of certain proposals, in addition to the fact that, in many respects, there are real demands on many points, but many times the envelope is coming, not to mention that the evaluation of these proposals - see the evaluation of rural development proposals - is very harshly delayed. The evaluation of the TOP applications was also delayed, and I hope that it will be over by 2015-16, and then we can have another round, but the evaluation of rural development applications is still in the air, so these development funds are missing. Secondly, he mentioned the inclusion and the solidarity contribution in one context. Indeed, the Budget Act has now been in Annex 2, point 5, for years or since last year, but it is thoughtfully two completely different things. While inclusion means reducing subsidies from the central budget - I add, there is a great deal of injustice in that too, and we have tabled an amendment on this issue too - and the solidarity contribution is about withdrawing own revenue. So these two things, although physically side by side on paper, are virtually, mentally, two different things. I would like to say one more thing very quickly, this is about the surplus of municipal wages. You promised me an oral question that this question would be settled. Last year, which was defined last year, will receive the same amount of money in general unit costs next year. I am very willing to believe you that there will be assistance to the municipalities in terms of additional rules, but if you really wanted to solve the additional burden due to the guaranteed minimum wage, you will put it there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so it is inserted in Annex 2, point I. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-38	Thank you very much, notary. Before I know who I am speaking to, I will ask, because both Attila Mesterházy and Sándor Burány have checked in, and I can only speak to one. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-18-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's completely unprecedented that the government representative goes to the National Assembly to lie. Secretary Soltes, shame on you. I would like to tell you a few facts about your contribution; on the one hand, the family allowance has been doubled during our administration. You know, the family allowance that everyone gets, the tax relief is for the people who work. If you don't know the difference between the people of work and everyone else, then you have problems not only with the mathematics of middle school but also with understanding the text, if you can, then don't lie. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] Secondly, in terms of poverty indicators, you cannot list an official, government-free institution, Mr Secretary of State, which would not show that poverty has increased in the country since 2010. You can't show me that, so don't give me that. The third is the pension premium: are you proud of the pension premium that was decided by socialist governments and voted by the Socialist majority parliament here in Parliament? Is that what you're going to give us to get them now? ! It's not a shame, you know, that you're going to get this, the shame that it took you seven years to retire, because for the first time, the economic indicators of the economy are those of your economic policy, which is why the pension premium that we've decided to make can be paid, Mr. Secretary of State. Get down on the ground! And by the way, about corruption, of course, he didn't talk about it. Just news for today, Mr. Secretary, I'm just telling you that Lőrinc Mészáros bought a third of Tatabánya's main square. Casino revenues, to be more precise: the revenues of the gambling sector were more than 400 billion forints, but the tax revenues of the state have not been so low since 2001, just over 30 billion, just to make Andy Vajna and his associates rich. That's your policy, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-18-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész, two minutes.
u2017-05-18-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I repeat: your family policy amounted to HUF 900 billion in 2010 and next year will be HUF 1900 billion. I don't know what it is if it's not a huge rise. [[Sándor Burány: That's not what I'm talking about! There's more poor people. That's not what I'm talking about!]] It would be worth looking at the numbers, because that is exactly the huge difference between you and our policy, that we have built society on a work basis. This is the result of the 700,000 increase in employment, which is the result of the fact that people living in real poverty and poverty, who, by the way, have been condemned to aid, a large part of them finally earn their income by working, and thanks to that, 96 percent of them will benefit from the family tax reduction. You know why? Because we've extended it to benefits over the last few years so that people with lower incomes can benefit from it. Retirement Premium: You're absolutely right, it's been launched. And what did they do with the pensions anyway? The real value of pensions has fallen in the last years of your governance. You can't deny that. [[Attila Mesterházy: It was a crisis!]] Nor can he deny that since 2010, the real value of pensions has increased by 10 percent. About corruption, I think the Socialist Party shouldn't talk too much, don't tell me too much. [[Attila Mesterházy: Lajos Simicska, Lőrinc Mészáros.]] because one of Europe's biggest corruption scandals is connected to you [[Attila Mesterházy: Who is the suspect? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] About subway 4. You were at the time, on the one hand, in the government, at the head of the capital, so you should not accuse others of great corruption. Look in the mirror first. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-42	Thank you very much. [[For signal:]] Congressman Attila Mesterházy, I cannot speak until the next round. We now have a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, Mr István Vitányi. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to talk about the support and tasks of the municipalities in the light of the 2018 central budget ahead. Although a number of things have already been said by the Secretary of State, I think it would be good to confirm them. I consider it very important that, as in previous years, general principles in the draft budget law will be reflected in the funding of municipalities in 2018. These include support for families and measures to further increase employment, while at the same time raising the standard of living, with particular attention being paid to helping parents get into work and raising the incomes of workers in different sectors. I believe that these are not only the basic principles of next year's budget, but also the essence of our government policy. After 2010, we announced the work programme instead of the aid, which is still valid until today. Furthermore, our objective was to help families. We believe that the family is the fundamental unity of the Hungarian nation, so it cannot be used enough to support them. The central budgetary support system of local authorities will continue to be implemented in the year 2018 under the task-based support scheme established in 2013. Local governments are expected to manage some HUF 2937 billion in 2018 without loans, with HUF 695.6 billion in the support chapter of the 9th local government budget and 108,5 percent of the 2017 funding. Compared to previous years, the framework will be increased by the additional resources linked to the increase of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage for the 2016 wage agreement, as well as to other wage measures, the support for certain investments, the additional need to support holiday tasks, the transformation of nursery funding and other cultural institutional operating grants. The implementation of the general operation of local authorities and their sectoral tasks requires targeted use and accounting to ensure that local public services are provided at an appropriate level. I would like to highlight, on the one hand, the support for mayor's salary, among the changes in general subsidies. The mayor's salary will be increased by the amendment of the municipal law adopted without voting against in December 2016, so the mayors of small settlements will be able to do their job with an adequate allowance. Another significant change, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State, is a surplus of around 2 billion in solidarity contributions. The 2017 Budget Act complements the system of municipal funding with a new element and introduced the solidarity contribution, which is implemented by some municipalities with a high tax capacity per capita towards the central budget. The solidarity contribution improves equal opportunities as it contributes to improving the financing of lower-income municipalities and to meeting other funding targets. [[11.50]] Therefore, on the basis of the 2018 bill, the categories defining the solidarity contribution have changed and the rates have also increased. With the expected additional payments due to these changes, the expenditure appropriation for the IX local government support chapter has increased, so the municipalities with a better income position are also supporting the proper financing of municipal tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, The main task of the municipalities in the field of public education is to provide kindergarten care in 2018, and the central budget provides four elements for this task, as in 2017. Average wage support shall be granted on the basis of the number of teachers and teachers directly assisting in educational work recognised by law; additional support shall be granted for the qualification of teachers and for additional expenditure on the transfer to level II of the educating teacher who is qualified as a teacher; kindergarten management support shall be provided to support the wage of non-professional workers and the purchase of professional equipment of the institution; and for the travel of incoming children shall also be provided to the municipalities concerned. The introduction of the pedagogical career career has proved to be a milestone in the organisation of wages for public education workers, for which the necessary resources are provided by the local government chapter for teachers and teachers who are qualified and directly assisting in educational work. In 2018, an even greater change in nursery care is expected. In the case of nursery and mini-cradle care, task-based funding will be introduced, which has already demonstrated its effectiveness in several areas. In addition, the central budget includes HUF 1.5 billion in development resources to support the development of the mini-cradle. I also think it is necessary to point out that, by pursuing the government's priority objective, in line with the fact that more children will be entitled to free meals due to changes in the conditions of entitlement to a regular child protection discount, more resources will be available next year to ensure that children are fed. The institutional and holiday catering tasks are supported by more than HUF 79 billion on the basis of the 2018 Budget Act proposal. The development resources for the development of municipal cuisine and dining rooms continue to be ensured in relation to these objectives. As one of the most absurd criticisms of the opposition, I can only categorize it when it comes to turning child hunger into government parties. In fact, and indisputably, the current government is doing the most to eliminate this phenomenon. Dear House, The proposal before us does not forget to support the cultural responsibilities of local authorities. For the protection of cultural goods, museum institutions, public education and public library services, the amount of HUF 2.5 billion above the 2017 budget can be spent for more than HUF 22 billion. Among the local government developments, I would like to highlight the establishment of a memorial and library in Kistarcsa as an interning and forced labour camp during the communist dictatorship, as well as the construction of the exhibition hall in Békásmegyer. He takes one, and I consider the other to be of great importance from a practical point of view. The last thing I want to say about municipal areas is the social sector. For the special social benefits to be provided by municipalities, which means housing for the elderly and the homeless and the temporary care of children, HUF 23.5 billion is available in the budget. Under the other terms of support for the social responsibilities of local authorities, the budget will continue to provide resources for expenditure of a social nature in municipalities with low income potential, which cannot be financed elsewhere. For example, this aid provides cover for costs of public employment not recognised elsewhere, for the part of the basic services or for the payment of municipal aid. Speaking of public employment, I would also like to briefly mention the importance of the institution. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the government has corner points to which it insists uncompromisingly. Such a cornerstone is also the principle of work instead of aid. In ten years, we have undertaken to create a million new jobs. We can note that with this commitment, we are better off on a pro rata basis than many would have thought. Despite economic growth and local labour shortages, I think it is worth continuing to place great emphasis on the public employment programme. However, the direction is also clear in this respect: the 1139/2017 on individual labour market measures presented by the NGM and adopted by the Government. Point 3 of the Government Decision calls on the Minister of the Interior to continuously reduce the average monthly maximum number of persons in public employment programmes to 150,000 by 2020 in the light of the competitive labour shortage. It is therefore necessary to set priorities for each target, to provide the counties with more differentiated resources according to the labour market situation and to focus on disadvantaged small regions, municipalities and the most disadvantaged jobseekers in the future. In addition, production capacities, value-creating programmes developed in previous years need to be maintained and further operated in disadvantaged municipalities, for which it is essential to provide the necessary numbers and sources of support. Where the labour market situation is concerned, the high number of open market job opportunities do not justify the presence of public employment, where these subsidies must be reduced or completely eliminated. In view of what has been said in my speech, it can be concluded that the main objective for municipal funding next year is to maintain predictability and stability, to strengthen the fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits and to facilitate further catching up on small settlements. I ask your support for this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Tóth is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-18-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Hungary realized that the future was determined by talented young people, their support and support, said the Minister of State for Family, Youth and International Affairs of the Ministry of Human Resources a month ago at the opening of a conference. What the government has now come to realize has been clear to everyone: the future of the country depends on the young. It depends on the prospects for our young people in the field of education and vocational training, and what opportunities they will have for employment. However, the situation of young people has changed a lot in recent years. In the first place, 43 percent of Hungarian youth's fears indicate that they do not know how to make money and are afraid of poverty. In the second place, 37 percent mention that they feel insecure about their future and have no vision. Anyone who can imagine their future is not at home, but abroad. 40 percent of high school students would go abroad to study. Young people feel that Hungarian higher education has gone to such a level that they are no longer doing anything with a Hungarian degree. Young people value the domestic political and social environment as an important factor, which they see as a way of imagining their future abroad. However, education is an essential condition for the country's rise. For well-trained young people are needed in the field of research and development, which is the basis for economic growth. Well-trained young people can also create new businesses and jobs. In recent years, the number of Hungarian students has increased by 40% in the five most important countries of destination. In particular, the number of Hungarian students increased by 66 percent in England, 38 percent in Germany, 17 percent in Austria, 38 percent in the United States and 89 percent in the Netherlands compared to 2012. Each year, some 30,000 citizens leave the country. The vast majority of foreigners come from young people. 45 percent of emigrants are under the age of 30, and three quarters are below the age of 40. Those who leave abroad are much younger than the average age in Hungary. [[12.00]] In Hungary, society is growing older, and this is at a much more advanced stage in Hungary than in other countries. The population peaked in 1981, the fertility rate is one of the lowest in Europe, so as a consequence, the population is expected to fall to around 9 million in the vicinity of 2060. The middle-aged base has been stable so far, but it will soon be one of the lowest rates compared to the overall population in Europe, which will lead to the worst indicator for older dependency. If the income catch-up is completely gone, we will not talk about immigration, but about the emigration of highly skilled workers. All in all, the need to pay for an ageing society will lead to a decline in the labour force. Today hundreds of thousands of Hungarians work abroad. In Hungary, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector employs nearly three quarters of the employees, but only 27 percent of small entrepreneurs are under 40. There are nearly 100,000 small businesses over 55. If young people go to work abroad, to undertake, there will be a huge problem for SMEs in the next ten years in the generation change. The government should have recognised this problem a long time ago and helped small entrepreneurs to change generations by effective means, so as not to break the economic performance of these small companies. However, the government wanted to check the problems with an alibi program with little effort. A year and a half ago, the program was launched to promise 3 million HUF non-refundable grants to young people who start their own business in Budapest or Pest County. The condition of the application was to complete an eight-week course, which was carried out by the National Employment Nonprofit Ltd. He's done. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Do your business at home, young man. The programme was a complete failure, since one of the 66 applicants received has not yet been able to enter into a contract in Budapest. The rural leg of the programme was not more effective either; since last October only 50 applications were applied for in the regions outside Pest County, of which NGM only managed to conclude a grant contract with five companies. On the one hand, the participants in the programme experienced a huge rush to start training and, on the other hand, the incomprehensible slowness of the NGM side to manage payments. No one seems to care what young people do with their government-promoted companies. Do your business at home, young man. As a result of its programme, young people have become even stronger in their decision not to do business at home, but to earn a living abroad. It is no longer helpful that Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, announced the day before yesterday, ordered an internal investigation into the cause of the delays. In order for young people not to go to work abroad, in order to be willing to start businesses at home, the government should immediately take substantive measures. It should launch programmes that serve these goals and do not discourage young people from doing business. In this draft budget, the government spends many, many billions on completely unnecessary purposes, instead of using it to keep it at home, to bring young people home and to support their becoming entrepreneurs. It's an unfair budget that the MSZP fraction doesn't support. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-18-46	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. On behalf of the Government, Minister of State Banai has asked for the floor, and he has the opportunity to speak. How do you do?
u2017-05-18-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If I may, I will respond to the suggestion made by Mr Csaba Tóth, before that I would like to recall the exchange of views, the difference of opinion that we have seen on the part of the government, on behalf of State Secretary Miklós Soltész and on behalf of Mr Sándor Burány. I would just like to confirm that the figures, the figures that State Secretary Miklós Soltész said, can be clearly read from the accounts of previous years and from the budget for 2018. So all the numbers are accurate. So I think it's hard to argue with numbers, especially past numbers. If you want to look at the amount of family allowances and family allowances, you can see them in a separate annex to the submitted bill. It is true that the family allowance has not increased, but please do not go without saying that the amount of family allowances that can be used in the form of tax incentives has widened significantly. In addition, let us not go without saying that at present, if two parents have a combined gross income of 309 375 forints and three children, they can make maximum use of the monthly tax reduction of 99 thousand forints; just as it has been said that this benefit is now available not only from personal income tax but also from contributions. If you look at this amount, this gross monthly income of less than HUF 310 thousand at family level, you can also see that the per capita amount, half of which is smaller, is significantly less than the average monthly salary. So not only the wealthy, not only the middle class, can use 100% of the family discount, but also those in the lower income category. Let me mention another figure in terms of whether the statement that the proposed budget bill and the government's economic policy are unfair is true. After all, we often hear that the budget distributes a lot to a few, that it distributes little to many, that the lower earners can do worse. I have here a specific statistics on how the real income of minimum wage earners changed between 2002 and 2010 and between 2010 and 2018 according to the proposal submitted. There are two eight-year cycles that can be compared. Workers with minimum wage who do not have children experienced an increase in real earnings of 5.8 percent between 2002 and 2010, i.e. 30.1 percent between 2010 and 2018. In the case of a child, real earnings decreased by 2 percent between 2002 and 2010 and increased by 44.3 percent between 2010 and 2018 in terms of minimum wage earners. For two children, the same figure is negative 8.7 per cent between 2002-2010 and 79.7 per cent between 2010 and 2018. For three children, the real earnings change between 2002 and 2010 is minus 7.6 per cent, and between 2010 and 2018 it is 90.3 per cent. I'm sorry if I've said many numbers, but I think these numbers are talkative, these numbers support the statements made by State Secretary Soltés. After all, if I may, I would like to turn to Mr Csaba Tóth's point of view, and I hope that these figures do show that if you want to work in Hungary, on the one hand, you can also work thanks to increasing jobs and you are likely to earn more from year to year. We hope that the statistics that I have presented to you and which show that the real income of earners in the lowest income category has increased will certainly continue after 2010, even in 2018. Whether people are afraid of poverty or not, there is no doubt that everyone has the idea, the feeling that if they have to leave the labour market, they will have a job and how much they will earn. Well, please, again, the statistics show, and the economic projections for both this year and next year show that the number of jobs will be increased and the number of real earnings will be increased. A lot of students go abroad, that's what they say. Please, we are a Member State of the European Union, it is not a Hungarian specialty that both workers and students go abroad. There are European Union programmes that finance this, such as the Erasmus programme. I think that it is important to be glad that students not only gain experience at home but also go abroad to educational institutions. [[Gergely Farkas: They're just not coming home!]] The key is to come home after these experiences and find their way home. There is no doubt that, despite the substantial growth seen in recent years, Hungarian real earnings are even lower than in many Western European countries. But please, looking back from the economic history, this has been the case for centuries, and my claim is that this lag has been substantially reduced over the past few years, and there are changes not only in real earnings, but also in other family support, housing support, and childbearing benefits that are worth staying home as much as possible. [[12.10]] So I think that beyond the undoubtedly emotional charge, which is described in the Word, you must live here and die. The change in strictly taken financial conditions also results, at least I hope that it will result in the decision of as many young people as possible to thrive at home and to start a family at home. This process, I think, can also be seen in support of businesses. The Member said that SMEs are not given enough attention by the government. I always say that there are still tasks in all areas, there are still problems in all areas that need to be resolved, but that the government has not acted to strengthen SMEs, I think, is not a real statement. Let's see what new taxes the government has introduced. The so-called kata or kiva. Is there a simpler tax system than kata? And if this tax system is not good, then why did tens of thousands of companies choose this tax, both Kata and Kiva? However, if we look at the budget of 18, we can see that a tax rate reduction is also being made on the kivány, so another step forward can be made for potential taxpayers. It's just a change in the tax system. Among SMEs, which do not tax those two taxes, you can also see that the corporate profit tax rate of SMEs has decreased from 10 to 9 per cent, and you can also see that there is a substantial surplus in support policy both in the EU and in domestic resources now in the budgets, which is also true of the . 17 budget of 18, as, say, seven or eight years ago. If we look at the structure of EU funds or look at the new appropriations, such as the supplier's funding programme, which is included in the proposal for the Budget Law No 18 and there was no such programme before, then I think that, in addition to the tax system, there have also been changes on the expenditure side. There is no doubt that, in addition to funding, the tax system, the administrative conditionalities must be reviewed, and I agree that there are certain areas where progress can be made, but my statement is that, in order to improve the situation of SMEs, next year's draft budget law will also contain substantial changes and substantial improvements in order to ensure that young people stay at home. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-48	Thank you. We will go back to the speeches that have been announced. Mr László Földi, representative of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'd just like to connect for a moment with the topic of youth leaving and keeping it at home, and what happens to young people when they finish at university or in high school. I also have two other college kids, and they also think about what's going to happen to us, that if we graduate from college, and I used to say, "My boy, if you're a good student, you're obviously gonna have to fight for the right job to get ahead, but obviously, you're not gonna get a million bucks in your lap, but, yeah, you're gonna have to brag it out, you're gonna have to wait for a place where you actually get to the right level, both in wages and in other areas. I have to say, however, who really lives among people, because I meet many people every day, young people with fresh degrees, or even at school, where I have lunch on weekdays, with young colleagues and even older colleagues, that with the wage development that has been started, let's say, in the public sector, teachers, for example, are not dissatisfied with colleagues, they are not dissatisfied. Obviously, there could be more, but what I think is very important about next year's budget is that, in addition to being predictable, besides being safe, it is an important pillar of this budget that it does not rely on the quagmire of credit. I remember 2002, for example, when teachers had 50 percent wage improvements from September 2002, they had the state's funding for those three or four months, but from 2003 the local authorities were forced to pay for it, and there was no state cover. We can now see, even in recent years, when, for example, the career model has started in this area, so that the state, the government, guarantees in its annual budget, guarantees the conditions, the amounts needed for wage development. I declare that this budget is also a responsible budget scheduled for next year. Why am I saying this? Because, at home too, you have to stretch as long as your blanket reaches, it is a key issue; not to live on credit, not to create a welfare society from credit, but to use existing resources so that the Hungarian people can benefit from it properly in any way. And I think that this is the responsibility of the government, and that is why this budget is responsible, because, once again, it does not build on credit, but on the goods produced. In the last six years, we can see that the economy has developed continuously, this Hungarian economy is becoming more and more robust, and it gives us more and more opportunities to change and develop in different areas, both in terms of wages and in other areas. I would also like to say a little bit about Pest County, as Pest County was able to obtain less or minimal from EU funds earlier than in the central region. This was acknowledged by the government, providing some HUF 80 billion in funding to Pest County, and this is also included in the budget planned for the following year on a pro rata basis. It is true, of course, that this does not cover the lack of money that we could have gained from the EU, but the responsibility and responsible thinking of the government is precisely that it does not miss Pest County, it also tries to put citizens of Pest County in the same position as citizens and businesses in other regions. I have to tell you a little bit more about the construction of the M4 motorway here in Pest County, because the actual work has started to be done on the M4 road, and as Minister Varga said at the basestone, this programme is moving forward, as the planning of the Abony-Szolnok section has started, and the government is in a good negotiating position to build the Abony-Weapon section in the next period. This area, this region, can create a key position, as we expect businesses to expand and other important development or development from this situation. As a father with four children and a grandfather with several grandchildren, I would also like to talk about what families look like in Hungary today and what the budget will provide for families next year. I confess with faith and conviction that I have never experienced or experienced such a family support system, not only in Hungary, but also in other states of Europe. I remember the cost of a textbook for a family with two or three children when schooling and textbooking were held in August, and for example, for a family with three children or a person with two children in school, the purchase of textbooks could amount to 15-20 forints, if any 25 thousand forints. Now, if this budget includes the fact that next year it's going to be in grade 1-9 - which means it's going up to high school level - textbook support, that's a huge thing. The other key issue is the nearly HUF 80 billion that this draft budget intends to devote to food support. Actually, I don't know, because I don't experience it, even though I often go to Cegléd schools, and students at Cegléd schools aren't the XIIth. They come from the district or from the district I. [[12.20]] When six or seven hundred children eat in a school, and four to five hundred children eat practically free of charge, one to two hundred eats at a discount, this is an astonishing amount of support, and I think that there will be no children in Hungary today and there will be no children in Hungary who will starve or starve in the following. I also consider the issue of tax incentives to be important on this issue, because - I am concrete - one of my colleagues has three children and practically does not pay taxes; a teacher's wife, an educator's husband, virtually does not pay taxes. What if it's not support? So I am convinced that we are on the right track when we write such items in the budget, which clearly supports the family, young people with children, parents. The other issue is the issue of pensions. I don't want to get into this because I'm not an expert on the subject, I'm just saying from practical experience again, our parents are still alive, and thank God they're retired, and thank you very much. What they get is a pension increase, they're very happy, but they can handle their lives with a good job, they have no problems, as they're also affected by the reduction of the rent, less water charges, less sewerage, less electricity, less gas charges, and if we add the two together, then their budget is positive. All in all, I can say that next year's budget is a realistic budget that serves the goals of both businesses and Hungarian people. I call on my fellow Members to support the budget next year with their votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of Jobbik, Mr. Gergely Farkas, is next. Here.
u2017-05-18-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, If I had to express my opinion on the budget briefly, I could say that we are faced with the budget of giving up young people, and as much as my fellow Member Gábor Bányai does not like it, it is still true and unfortunately factually justified, and I would also like to give examples of this in important areas, in the field of education, in the area of housing, about how you treat emigration young people, what kind of solution you offer them, so I would like to go through some examples of why I consider this to be a budget for resigning young people. Let us start by saying that we have talked a lot about the problems of emigration here in the last few minutes, and I think, as much as we dispute what is causing this, it is factually true that hundreds of thousands of young people have been displaced abroad, not willingly, but by great numbers of pressure. And I'm not talking about what Mr. Secretary of State was trying to explain here that they were going to study; of course, go to school with an Erasmus scholarship, there's nothing wrong with that, and we fully support it, it's a good thing about the country's perspective. We are not talking about these people, we are talking about those who go abroad because of the economic situation, because of the economic situation, because they do not have Fidesz ties, they do not have Fidesz members, they do not have powerful acquaintances, so they cannot get ahead of themselves, they do not get their applications, they do not get well-paying, greasy jobs, and other things that they try to pay people with fides through the New Generation Centre and many other institutions. Because of this social atmosphere, many people go abroad, and what is more, the fact that most of these people stay there, these people do not feel that there are circumstances at home, changes that would make it worthwhile to come home. And here, let me quote your Prime Minister's sentence, in which he said that the problem is not that young people are leaving, but that the good functioning of a government is shown by the ability to call young people home. I think it would be more obvious to express the failure of the government's policy, because it is clear that it cannot call young people home. A few years ago, you created a come home, young man. A program, such a centre that would have been aimed at calling young people home from a few hundred million forints. It was a failure, and it was already in operation that it was not going to be a successful initiative, and then you saw it, and this institution was terminated. The institution called "the institution." We looked forward to what next step would be to bring young people home, to try to help young people who still decided to come home, to try to see if they could live here. Since then, it is very quiet, and the big thing is that no new program has started, which, I think, is a huge problem, and it is a very good vision of how the government is handling this problem, because if it were to treat it as important to the hundreds of thousands of people, young people and less young people who live and work abroad, then it would certainly launch programs that help them bring them home. Although, when I think about doing business at home, you're young. The operation of this programme has also shown how frivolous you are in dealing with this issue and how you cannot manage up to a few dozen young businesses, then I think this is a good example of how seriously you are dealing with this issue. Everyone knows, in recent weeks, there has been more news that the few poor young people who came home naively with the plan to start a business at home, completed a course, prepared a business plan, submitted a tender, and then founded a company, had to pay contributions for several months after the company, many tens of thousands of forints a month, while the Ministry of National Economy was not even able to assess their application, so they could actually start their business. So these young people got stuck in this program, they only had their expenses, and they couldn't even get out of it, because then they would have had to pay back the training fee. I think it shows your attitude about how you treat a few dozen young people who come home from hundreds of thousands and say they're going to try it at home. Well, that's the kind of example you can give, which even more encourages the people out there to stay there. But look at the situation in education, because there are plenty of things that show that you still do not see young people as a resource, that you still do not see the potential that future generations have in us, and that they should be shown as much as possible that they are important to this country, that it is important that they are here, that they stay here, that they can start a family, that they can thrive, that they can work, and that their emigration really does not cause a problem to which Hungary is going at the moment. All I need to think about is that since 2007, i.e. ten years ago, you have not increased student scholarships in higher education institutions. For ten years, this very important source has not been raised, which is in many cases even the only source of a young person in higher education, as we know very well that many people are unable to support them from home, and do not want to take on student loans, no matter how much you always recommend it as a solution to make young people more indebted to themselves, because you think that you will be able to do so; you do not think about what this young person's life will be like, who will then start his diploma with debt in hand, even millions of forints of debt. So instead of looking for opportunities and supporting young people who are important to them, you don't deal with them, so they don't deal with the issue of academic scholarships, which not only Jobbik has been pushing for years, but the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, HÖOK, has long been on its flag, they also consider very important because it affects hundreds of thousands of young people. It is a lot that may seem like a lot, 12 billion forints, but if you look at how small a slice of the total budget it is, it is practically a few football stadiums of money, but I could tell you other wasteful items that would be more important than raising the rate of scholarship. [[12.30]] So this HUF 12 billion would be sufficient to increase the student normative that has been unchanged since 2007 at least at the rate of inflation, because the institutions are spending on this item. It is therefore very important to increase this. By the way, we have also tabled an amendment to this, in case you do accept this, driven by some divine spark, and realize that young people should be signalled with such things, that they are important to the country, not with the attitude that you have shown them in many other ways. But I could mention that, when it comes to students in higher education, it is a permanent, recurring subject for those in higher education to give family support to families. We also consider this important, but you have not been able to do so for years. There is no reason why it is no longer important to support a 19-year-old young person and to support his family, while at 18 years of age, the family still receives the family allowance, and then, when he goes to college and college, he faces much higher expenses, probably living in a flat, college, then he doesn't get this support. But let us look at another area, and this is the area of housing, which, I feel, is also very hard on young people. You always refer to the CSOK, which is indeed a forward-looking thing, but at the same time it does not solve the situation of the young people I would like to talk about. Because it is not realistic at all to say that a young person who goes to college, college, or even later to work in another city suddenly decides that with the help of the CSOK, he will suddenly build a house or buy an apartment so that he can use it in this way. It's not realistic at all. They would prefer a kind of temporary housing, which, in our opinion, could be resolved in two ways: by building a dormitory, by developing it, and by launching a social housing system. We have already heard plans and ideas from you about the development of the dormitory, but at the same time there have been some desperate statements here in Parliament that assumed that, after the fall of our Olympic application, these dorm development could be stuck, and suddenly it is not so important for the government to build new dorms or renovate existing ones, which would be essential. Let me refer, for example, to a joint survey of the National Association of Higher Education Colleges and HÖOK, according to the metropolitan panorama, that there is a 20 percent shortage of capacity, there are over-subscriptions in many rural colleges in Budapest. Overall, 40 percent of over-subscriptions and more than half of colleges have not been saved or developed in the last five years. And a number of these statistics could be used to support the importance of this area. We continue to think it is very important for the development of the college to take place. I trust you will see the importance of this. And they see, for example, the importance of a social housing system, which would also be essential. For years, we have been saying how important it is for young couples to be able to rent apartments, houses that can help them even lower than the market price. On the other hand, construction projects supported by such a state background with Hungarian contractors would also have a positive impact on the Hungarian economy. I believe that starting this is also an old debt. What you have said so many times in this budget debate about young people, by the way, is the first free examination of languages, which is indeed a positive thing. It's only in parentheses that Jobbik raised this four or five years ago. We are pleased that they have finally achieved it, but this one proposal alone is not enough for young people to feel what they should feel overall that this country is important. Even with regard to young people, which I believe is important to mention, and unfortunately, we also feel that this area has not been given sufficient weight to the government, this is the task of preventing drug use. Here, a decade ago, the state gave HUF 1.8 billion on the budget line, and after 2010, it fell drastically to a quarter, a fifth, a sixth, a HUF 300 million, a HUF 400 million. This year, 518 million HUF is available. Compared to the weight of the problem, the spread of designer drugs, this amount is small. It's a huge threat for young people. We regret that the government does not accept this and does not consider this to be of sufficient importance. Speaking of which, László Szászfalvi mentioned the situation of the nursery. We don't see the cradle situation that positive at all. Allow me to give you an example of this in the constituency. Because the law requires and we have heard that from September 2017 there is no possibility of launching a single kindergarten and nursery, there is a kind of legal prohibition. At the same time, municipalities were obliged to start a nursery group if a sufficient number of parents so requested. For example, Jánoshalmán asked that there are plenty of 14 children, but there are many more in a settlement of that size, one of the settlements of my constituency, to launch the crèche group. At the same time, the state norm is little that you provide, and the municipality has no opportunity to complete this because of its limited income. So there's a question of what's going to happen when the nursery starts, which is important, because if the nursery works, then the parents who can get to work could do it. But in this way, with a low state aid, normative, it is not even possible to manage the minimum wage for the minimum number of employees, not to mention the costs of the overhead and other types of costs. This is, for example, a major problem in Jánoshalman - and I am sure that not only in this settlement, but also in many other settlements. Nor will it be possible to push the cradle start-up until the end of 2018, which does not solve the problem if you do not raise the norm. All in all, therefore, I continue to hold it and sadly state that this budget is a budget for giving up on young people. As in recent years, this budget has not changed substantially the neglected situation of young people, the fact that the government treats them as stepchildren, and rather than dealing only with emigration, they do not launch programmes that would help them bring them home; what they are launching, we have seen in connection with the start-up of a business is also a failure. But in addition, young people who stay home, stay home and work at home are not given enough attention, which is a huge problem, and it paints a very sad future for Hungary, because this generation is the future generation. If you do not appreciate them, it will have very negative consequences for the country as a whole. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2017-05-18-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Madam Secretary, please.
u2017-05-18-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would just like to respond to some of the things that have just been said, because we were talking about young people and we were talking about young people in the budget. I would stress, however, that the 2018 budget is as much a budget for young people as it is for people from work or for families. We can also say that it is a budget for investing in the future. This is reflected in each line. I trust you will study it carefully before you have to decide on the vote. He has brought up and I would also like to respond to some specific issues, and I would like to say some general approaches to support young people and investment in young people. On the one hand, the need to bring home from abroad by force or in such a direct way, anyone who lives abroad or who is studying abroad or who is working abroad [[Gergely Farkas: Who said that?]] I don't think so. I believe that young people should be encouraged to do so if they were to try their luck abroad. This is what scholarships are about, and this is what many opportunities are about, and a number of instruments that we already provide for them. And if you think that you want to do well at home later, at least we can support this with such tools. I myself lived abroad, in France, Germany, in the United States for a long time, with children. I know the support systems outside, not only from experience, but also from my readings, and I know how exceptional the family support system is in Hungary. Indeed, if a young family with children today lives in almost any country in Western Europe, they cannot expect their children to eat free in kindergarten or receive free textbooks at school. You cannot count on this type of support at all, and you may not even expect daycare or even expect to receive kindergarten care. So you're not getting these grants at all. Not to mention family tax breaks, not to mention these financial subsidies. [[12.40]] But he mentioned the importance of home. I fully agree on how important it is for a young person to live in a suitable home, to have children in a suitable home, to start a family, and to have a suitable home if the family grows later. I think that we can be proud of this, that in Hungary there is already a home creation programme, which is outstanding in international comparison. And there are some young people who dare to say yes to this type of commitment. Forty-two thousand, yes, were born for this type of program. So if you're saying that this doesn't address anyone, then the 42,000 families who actually got a new home thanks to the CSOK, and they can now live in better conditions. So, yes, there is not only a small demand for this, but there is a strong demand for it, and this 42 thousand is very important to us, and this 42 thousand families, and those who will get better in the future thanks to the home creation programme. More than HUF 100 billion is only due to the amount of support granted thanks to the CSOK. He also mentioned that the reason why they are leaving the country in bulk - it is strange that they have not been able to confirm with numbers how many people are out or coming back, because you obviously do not have reliable data, but he also said - they are going out because they are not Fidesz supporters and those who are not fidesz are virtually leaving the country. I am glad that there are so many fidesz, because everyone who is still in Hungary is a supporter of Fidesz. I am pleased that Congressman sees this situation this way. As for the support of young people, I would like to highlight our talent program here. The fact that we embrace talented young people in Hungary today gives support to talented young people is another thing that is not in many places in the world. The fact that - you must have seen it in the 2018 budget - it exceeds HUF 3 billion in support of the national talent programme also indicates that talented young people are important to us and we support them. It is true that we can count on taxpayers who offer 1 percent of their personal income tax to support the national talent program. So I consider this to be a priority programme, which, by the way, is accompanied by an additional HUF 6 billion talent development programme. So this is a particularly rich form of support through which we seek to embrace all talented young people who not only have an interest in a particular area but also have the ability to do so with their own diligence. So we've been supporting these talented young people from a very small age to adulthood. I think we should all be proud of this program. If we're talking about young people's support, you've mentioned kindergarten care in addition to the CSOK. That's what I'd like to discuss myself. I would also like to draw your attention to the estimate in the 2018 budget, which is almost HUF 37 billion, specifically in support of crèches. So the problem that you have mentioned, Mr President, will be addressed precisely, as we will switch to task-based funding from 2018. I think it's a better way to encourage local governments to open crèches and set up crèches in the right way, and it wouldn't be. The appropriate resources are available for this purpose. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this represents 2.5-fold support for nursery care compared to 2017. So I think that no one in the future can rely on the fact that they can't finance nursery care. The fact that different types of crèches have been created from this year is also a coincidence, the system has become much more flexible. In addition to the traditional crèches there is also a mini-cradle, family crèches and work crèches. This is about allowing families to work in small settlements and keeping their children safe during the day. That's what daycare is all about. With regard to young people, I would like to highlight your diplomat. This is also an opportunity that was not previously available to young people. Today, even if a young couple decide to have a child or have a family during university years or immediately after graduation, they will still have the child, even if they did not have such a relationship before that, they did not have an employment relationship. It wasn't like that before either. This is an opportunity specifically to support young people. It is also for the young people, and the youth is supported by the HUF 10 billion programme that we launched at home, which is about getting housing support on the one hand, and the young person who is able to get a job in a place that can be done in the same way that, thanks to work and housing, we can also undertake a voluntary job or activity to increase the retention power of rural settlements and help more young people to choose rural Hungary as their place of residence in the longer term. This is what we have set out to do, and you must know this, too, Congressman. In the same way, we have a program that starts with HUF 5 billion. It bears the title of "Soft Volunteering" personalized. This is about encouraging young people to engage in voluntary activities and volunteering between high school or high school and university for six months or a year. So you have the opportunity. Here, either in the armed bodies or in the emergency services or in the social care system, they can find their place in a number of areas and gain personal experience. So I'm asking you to consider these programs, these opportunities, if you say things like that, that we don't care about young people. You mentioned the New Generation Center. I thank you for that, because I think it is a great opportunity to reach out to young people even more. We have created 20 community spaces in the country, which are dedicated to providing young people with a community space, a community space, where we look forward to them, and they like to come and use these community spaces. And, for example, the free language exam, which you also mentioned, and I think that this is indeed an important step to make free for young people to get the first language exam, and in doing so we are actually counting on the cooperation of the New Generation Centre. As in many other programmes, where we are present with various programmes for young people, with different information, and with answers to their questions. Overall, I think that both talented young people and young people who are about to start a family, young family members who are already having children, and young Hungarians in general, have a number of opportunities in the 2018 budget, with which I am pleased that they will live. So I think that the 2018 budget is also a budget for young people. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-54	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Two-minute speech: Mr György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Madam Secretary of State. Madam Secretary of State has listed a lot of programs for young people. The only problem, you know, Madam Secretary, over the last seven years has been that any programmes are being launched, these programmes - all programmes we are talking about, not just programmes for young people - are hotbeds of corruption. After all, these programs are used to provide public money to various Fidesz people, not to focus on actual problems with these programs, because it is a very beautiful thing, and there is a real need for community space for young people, only for young people who are in a hopeless situation in Hungary, the least of their problems are whether they have community space or not. And how many people have left the country - and Mrs Secretary of State said that we cannot know about this - it would be good for you to know how many young people have left the country for economic reasons and not because they have gone, let us say, to the European Union, but because they earn much better out than they do in Hungary. That's what they should be dealing with. And what have you done about it? They've started, Madam Secretary, programs. They started programs to bring these young people home. There was this program, they spent 100 million forints on it, they brought home 105 of them. It cost 990 thousand forints to bring home a man who was then placed in refugee status as almost Hungarian citizens. You should watch the news, 'cause that's what it was. Or watch the other program, when young entrepreneurs were lured home, and they were told that they would give 3 million forints to these people, they had them set up companies, put them in a more difficult position than they were in, since the contributions had to be paid. And a year and a half wasn't enough for you to start this program, and for those startups, or for those young people who were talented and wanted to start some business, to support it. They still don't support it. If you don't believe that, Madam Secretary, you should ask Mihály Varga, who has just ordered an investigation into this matter at the Ministry, by the way. I mean, he probably didn't think it was appropriate the way you handled the programs. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-56	Thank you very much. We will return to the preliminary speeches by its representatives. The representative of Fidesz, Mr Gábor Bányai, is next. Here you go. [[12.50]]
u2017-05-18-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In today's and yesterday's keynote speakers and representatives, many statements, more precisely false statements, have been made and are likely to be formulated in the following, which are simply not in line with the number of budgets for 2018 before the Parliament. Allow me to draw your attention to these factual and factual errors over and over again. At the beginning of the day, we heard from the representatives of the Socialist Party that next year's budget bill is a budget for injustice and corruption. If the word "injustice" means that the Socialist Party has a different economic policy purpose and means than the current government of Hungary, then fortunately, they are absolutely right about this. We believe in the socialists that today's income tax system encourages employment. We believe that instead of aid, everyone has to earn a better living from work. If this is injustice, then we, the representatives of today's governing parties, must undertake this. Because how can a budget that, from a social point of view, provides additional resources to our incompetent or ill-mannered compatriots in 2018 be unfair? Undoubtedly, the rise in pensions does not feed on loans, high public debt, extra high government deficits, extra high inflation according to socialist-liberal practices, but rather on the opposite: low inflation, low government deficits, and falling public debt in real terms. The injustice according to socialist reflex is so great in this country, and according to them, the fiscal law suggests that the rate of increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage will result in twice the minimum basic income in 2018 and ensure the minimum income left behind by the socialists in 2010. It is undoubtedly a fact that Minister Mihály Varga, compared to János Veres and his prime ministers, is not a little more cowardly, but rather more timid in the eyes of a socialist, because he says that we should only stretch as far as our blanket is concerned, and he does not want to drive the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, into loans. You claim, honourable opposition representatives, that we are also providing less resources for health, education, social systems and law enforcement. But you are not telling the truth over and over again, and you are deceiving the Hungarian people and their voters. We will spend 102,3 billion forints more on Hungarian health in 2018 than in 2017. We will spend HUF 81,3 billion more on our education system. We will add HUF 82.5 billion more to public safety, from our domestic sources to economic development by HUF 205.1 billion than in 17th. We will spend 80.7 billion forints more on the social groups that are falling down. All you should have done was look at this year's and next year's budget law, but fooling the voters was better and better, because the elections are coming. I understand. You will simply forget where Hungary started in May 2010: the time of economic and financial collapse. This is a serious mistake, but forgetfulness can be cured by medication, even if it is a politician who shows these symptoms. There is no illusion in me whether you should tell the truth factually, because campaign centres do not allow it, because then it makes no sense to go public with the need for a change of government until next year's elections to the citizens of Hungary. For example, we could also talk about the planned deficit of 2.4 per cent of the budget. And so far, every year he was under the actual deficit, as we planned, as opposed to what he was before 2010. They are not telling the truth when they claim that the expansion of the Hungarian economy is lower than that of our Central European neighbours, much worse. But they do not dare to compare growth, employment, public finances, public debt and inflation, even among the total, today even the EU 28. But you know it, you just don't dare admit to your constituents that in 2017 the Hungarian economy is the fifth largest growing economy in the 28 Member States. This represents a 3.6 percent calculated expansion. The Hungarian first quarter data even contradicted this, as it reached 4.1 percent. It is true that Romania is ahead of us, but it is a result even if it hurts a socialist politician if the Romanian neighbours are a little ahead of us in something. Of the 28 Member States, Hungary produces the third lowest unemployment rate in 2017. Tell that to your constituents when you are not telling them the truth and to other Hungarian citizens. In 2010, socialist heritage was a multiple of today's low unemployment rate of 4.1 percent. They could also tell their voters about the Hungarian government debt, as in 2010 it was more than 10 percent higher than the EU average. And what do we see today? Wonder, this year Hungarian government debt will be more than 10% lower than the EU average. You, Honourable House, are accusing us of this, and there is an opposition unit in this, that poverty is because of us, which has grown because of the current government. True, without numbers, without specific numbers, they say that freely. Can poverty increase if the wages of the lowest earners increase and family tax incentives that can be imposed on them improve their lives? For most children in Hungary today are not born in rich families, but in poor families. I know it's very difficult for you to accept that the government is involved in extra resources with stricter supervision of tax payments. I know it's confusing, because it didn't happen a decade ago. The tax rates and the reduction of contributions also contradict the philosophy of the previous decade. I know that you are disturbed by the scale, existence and expansion of family tax incentives for children. I know, I still know, because we were in it, and we remember that you guys wiped it out after 2002. I also know that it bothers you if the government has additional resources and devotes hundreds of billions of them to our communities, even to helping Hungarians living outside our borders, because you would take this away, as you did before. I know it bothers you that the government, with the benefit of families, is helping to solve housing problems for young and older families. It's cursed to this day. And I have very bad news for you: the amount to be spent for this purpose will also increase in 2018 compared to 2017. I know it bothers you very much that the government has been able to do so, even in several steps, but it has raised and constantly raises the wages of public sector workers. Today we spend a thousand billion forints more on public sector workers' wages than in 2012. Of course, this could have been more if the country hadn't been bankrupt in 2010 where our ancestors put it. We're short on it, too, and we'd like to see it grow more sooner or later, but we need resources for that. I hope that this year, the wage increase will also be launched for municipal civil servants. For my part, I am asking you specifically, Mr. Secretary of State. Allow me to say - if many have done so before me, referring to their non-existent or existing constituency - what will happen in the 5th constituency of the county of Bács-Kiskun in 2018 from this draft budget law. Imagine that industrial development in Bácsalmás will start for 400 million HUF for job creation and will be linked to a HUF 800 million R &amp; D &amp; I programme, which will be launched by four companies for job creation. There will also be a nursery in Bácsalmas. Nearby, in Bácsszőlős, the renovation of the health home and its increase in energy efficiency will also appear as a goal and support in the budget. Building energy upgrades will start at the school at the Balota Accommodation. The same thing is going to happen with the renovation of the primary school. A rain canal will be built on the embassy because a large part of the village will be underwater during heavy rains. There will also be improvements in the nursing home and in the renovation of the doctor's office. In the same way, it can be said that the municipal building in Csichéria - although this does not involve job creation, but it is one of the most important buildings in the settlement - will be renovated in energy, but the health house will also be modernised in the following year. Boat visitation centre will be built at the once very famous Cabernet reception site, which will significantly increase the attractiveness of the Boat city. In addition, an internal precipitation system will be established in the city area. In addition, a road will be built on a very bad road between the basement village and the city centre and the town board. But we can also say that in Harkakötöny, in a small settlement, the local primary school, which is managed by the Catholic Church, also renovates its school and kindergarten. We've already talked about Jánoshalma. The development of the industrial area will bring more than 800 million forints to the city, and an agricultural logistics centre and park will be built for entrepreneurs who want to be established for job creation. In Kecelen, the government will support the inland drainage of the city's precipitation water, and will also build a bicycle route between the municipalities of Kecel and Imrehegy, and in Kecelen, today's government will also provide a great deal of support for the expansion of the elderly's home. In Kelebian, my fellow Members, the government will spend tens of millions of forints on rebuilding the nursing home of St. Elizabeth's Home. Kéleshalman school and kindergarten will be renewed in the next budget year. In Kiskunhalas, the development of the industrial area will be launched and the programme will be restarted, which has been promising success in the past. Similarly, the Thorma János Museum in Kiskunhalas will be one of the best museums in the county and we will bring home most of the collection of János Thorma to Hungary. If you come a year from now, you will also see the simultaneous exhibition of three giant images of János Thorma in one place. In addition, Kiskunhalason will be the tower of the town hall, any strange renovation for tourist purposes, and will make visible a very important old desire of the Kiskunhalasians. [[13.00]] Similarly, in Kiskunhalas there will be precipitation water drainage, a rainporter will be built, and the town will lead to the lake of Salt Lake with the accumulation of lots of excess water. Also in Kiskunhalas, the government will spend nearly 500 million forints on the renovation of the segmented parts of the city to solve the placement of the needy. Also in Kiskunhalas there will be road construction and the construction of an internal bypass road by building the Dongérvölgyi road, building the northern interior bypass. There will be industrial development in a very poor settlement. The energy renovation of kindergarten and nursery buildings in Kunbaján will take place next year, and it can be said that Kunbaján will also create a new field of basic health care, which was also the wish of the locals. In Kunfehértó, rainwater drainage will take place in the centre of the village, and in Demélykút there will also be industrial development, not to mention the already slow processing plant. Also on Deep Quarter in the city centre, although Minister of State said yesterday that EU funds should not be invested in the enclosures, but that today's construction of a previously non-existent city seed will take place. A medical office will also be renovated at Deep Quarter with a small amount of money, and the development of the local government building will be fully implemented in Pirtón. The development of the kindergarten will take place in Tataháza for the launch of kindergarten groups. Also in Tataháza, the budget will provide the energy modernisation of the local government's building, we will lead rainwater in Tázlár, as it will not be able to go anywhere from the village today, and the health house will also be renovated in Tázlár. There will also be a renovation of the nursing home in Tompa and industrial development in Zhana. It's just that short, because there's a lot more to go on, but there's no decision about one of them today. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to adopt the budget bill for 2018. I would like to say to the good-looking Member before me that there will be a group opening in Jánoshalmán this year. The city has serious financial problems, but this information could be brought to us badly. And with all due respect, it is not true that better men, whether they are representatives or entrepreneurs, do not receive support. I pay tribute to my fellow Member, the foundation of your campaign manager, will receive a grant of HUF 18 million for the establishment and expansion of a school in Jánoshalma. Just to keep the information safe, clean, and not falsely communicated to the electorate. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I am pleased that we have a happy man in our midst, at least one of my fellow Members from Bánya, who has long classified developments that will start in his constituency. Congratulations on that. I'm very happy for you. However, I would like to talk about those who are not so happy in my comment. These are the Hungarian patients. I do this because, by looking at the chapter on health in the budget, I have to conclude that the government does not want to, once again, do not want to deal with Hungarian health. Each professional circle takes the amount needed for the smooth functioning of health care to approximately 600 billion dollars. So that's what's missing from the system. If we compare this money with the increase in the health chapter in the budget, we can see that we will not get a fraction of it. It is a very difficult task to talk about the government's health policy, because at the moment the government does not have one valid document in the field of health as chief of staff. No. There is a text that bears the name "Efficient for Hungary 2014-2020," but this is not a health concept, it is not a health programme, and it was obviously only a mandatory finger exercise for the use of EU funds. And after there's nothing to measure the government's activity, it seems like they're either putting out a fire or brainstorming about health care. They're gonna put out fire, say, if it turns out there's not enough specialists in emergency departments, and then we're gonna have to give them money fast, 'cause that's gonna change the system. Or they're brainstorming. Who doesn't remember the idea of a person who doesn't take part in screening, pay more health contributions, now dead in ashes? And brainstorming usually doesn't do you any good. When we try to compare 2018 with the ideas of the current secretary of state with the health budget, we see very little of it. It is true that he himself did not say too much about health care, said five points, and, for his part, declared the task of the conceptual transformation of health to be complete. But the troubles are huge. If we go from basic care to inpatient care, we see worrying, often irreversible processes everywhere. In primary care, GPs, in addition to unfortunately ageing, lack more than 300 practices. These practices could not be filled by the government, and they could not launch effective programs for those without a home doctor to be. In these practices, he has not worked as a general practitioner for a long, long time, and there is no indication that there could be any change. Their funding is very poorly supported and very poorly functioning because they seem to love the practice of a lot of card money in the same area everywhere, and they are very little able to deal with the very, very fragmented, difficult practices that mainly involve small settlements and are mainly present in very poor parts of the country. When you talk about the need to increase the number of day-to-day surgeries in outpatient care and try to get people out of inpatient care because the latter is expensive, you don't raise anything. No budgetary resources, no other. However, if there is no decisive change in this, then it is clear that in hospitals, i.e. inpatient care, there will be once again no financing for operation or maintenance of operations. The reason I'm saying this is because, while you're being told how much hospital debt you're reducing, these hospital debts seem to be regenerating. They are regenerating; this means that there is a financing problem and not that hospital or economic managers are mistreating hospital budgets. Hospitals are underfunded, and in their present form they will always generate debts because they know nothing else. I also claim that when systemic screening programmes should be introduced to prevent diseases and to keep people healthy, there is also no sound funding for them in the budget. When people are happy to talk about how good it is, because we have given the institutions a few billion forints and waiting lists are falling, it is a very revealing attitude, because it is clear that this is a financing problem and not a capacity problem. If funding can be used to reduce waiting lists, this would most likely have to be done in a long way, not campaign-like manner, and the whole funding system should be reviewed. At the same time, let me point out that, in addition to waiting lists, the booking lists are miles away. If I don't see the piece of paper with my two eyes, I can't believe it: a year of mammography, a CT scan, publicly complains on a social media site to perform a very, very urgent examination by mid-August. It's May, though. This shows that not only waiting lists, but also access to various diagnostic procedures, so these screenings, this type of diagnostics, will result in kilometers of appointment lists. Finally, let me talk a little bit about what you guys like to talk about, this is the wage development of healthcare workers. Didn't the therapists say it takes at least 50 percent increase until the end of the cycle to make a human living? Well, that part didn't come true. I have strong doubts as to whether doctors who go to work abroad can be lured back by the increase in wages they receive. I have strong doubts because the number of people working outside is not falling, although Madam Secretary said that we cannot have accurate information about this - believe me, there are. Believe me, there are. It's enough to look at people in their immediate surroundings. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to surveys based on the Hungarian solidarity principle and - I stress - free healthcare system, private money is one third of the payments, and private money is one third of all health payments. That's a great number. Again, it's a principle of solidarity and free. Where there is no money to be paid other than medicine and some medical aids, people pay hard money in black, gray, or clean form to obtain health care. Yeah, if we look at the entire health system, it's no wonder. [[13.10]] Therefore, I would have been happy to discover at least the signs of change in this budget, which is not about various super-hospital ideas or candidates for chancellor - and I do not know what else the current ideas were for the Secretary of State - but about the fact that the problem that the majority of people considered the most important in Hungary - the health system is everywhere at the beginning of the lists - can change. If this change is not included, or if the intention of change is not found in this budget, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support it. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2017-05-18-60	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai has applied. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As regards health, we have often said in the current budgetary debate, but also in previous years' budgetary debates, that the sector has additional resources. We have also always said that we can solve problems step by step in a sector where, like other areas or the whole of public finances, there have been significant challenges. This means, I repeat, that we also have a task in the field of health. At the same time, I would like to ask with respect once again that we recognise the steps that have been taken and the results that have been achieved so far. I also ask that the steps taken by the Government in the field of health in 2018, if the Honourable Parliament accepts them, also be recognised. Let me then remind everyone that there has already been a wage increase in the field of health in 2012-2013, with the government starting to reform the healthcare system. So there was also a wage increase and a restructuring of the supply system. By the latter, I mean that institutions that had previously been held by the local government have been subject to state reservations, and in the area of benefits, as Mr President said, the priority of one-day surgery was, for example, a measure with which we wanted to improve the efficiency of the institutional system. These steps have continued in recent years, both in terms of wage increases and the financing of the institutional system, and changes in both areas are also expected in the 2018 budget. Allow me to explain in pay matters the specific figures of last September's agreement. According to this, the wages of health professionals increased on average by 26,5 per cent from 1 September 2016, by 12 per cent from 1 November 2017, by 8 per cent from 1 November 2018 and by another 8 per cent from 1 November 2019. From 1 September 2016, the basic salary of specialists and pharmacists increased by HUF 107 thousand gross, and from 1 November 2017, it will increase by another HUF 100 thousand gross. The impression of these wage increases is also included in next year's draft budget law. As far as funding for the institutional system is concerned, the surpluses that were also mentioned in the budgetary debate are said to have been reduced from 27 per cent in 2018 to 20 per cent in comparison to 2016 levels. First there was a 5 percentage point social contribution tax reduction, then a 2 percent social contribution tax reduction, i.e. the same wages should be paid by the institutions with a lower employer burden. This alone means saving for the institutions. Compared to this savings, the surplus we talked about in relation to the 2018 health figures is still valid. Please, we also interpret the financing of the institutional system in the light of this and, yes, there is an additional source of investment. We have also talked many times about the amount of developments that could have been made outside the Central Hungary region from European Union funds in the period 2007-13, and we are talking about some HUF 500 billion. Recently, thanks to the performance of the economy, thanks to its capacity, we have been able to provide resources for investment in Central Hungary by maintaining the stability of public finances. The programme adopted by the government focuses not only on Budapest, but also on Budapest and Pest County, focusing on having three priority centres in Budapest, which meet the most modern requirements both in its infrastructure and in its services, and around these three centres a system of institutions should be built, a system of institutions that enables improvements that have already been made from European Union funds to a significant extent outside the Central Hungary region. The impression of this development is also included in next year's draft budget law. The additional expenditure of this programme is HUF 26 billion compared to 2017. I repeat, I agree with Mr President that we still have some tasks to do, but the draft budget law for next year is a substantial help in terms of both the financing of wages and the institutional system and investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach, is next. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-05-18-63	Mr President, Dear House, Behind the dry figures of the budget is government intent. For example, there is family policy, social policy, but before I start doing this, let me get involved in the debate. You don't expect me to have the same style, but I have something to say. I'm holding in my hand a statement from the MSZP National Center. It's a serious statement, it's worth taking care of. He also talks about family politics. He says that from 2018 the government of László Botka will reduce the expenses of Hungarian families. What you're referring to is the gas price, a familiar subject. What do you say about him? He says it's an insufferable profiteering. Why do you use that subtle expression? He adds that Fidesz makes gas the most expensive in Europe. That's a surprising sentence. It is difficult to argue with this, if not with anyone else, with Eurostat's opinion that gas is the third or fourth cheapest in Hungary in the Union. Who's right? The MSZP or Eurostat? Or to HVG, which also says the same thing, designates gas as the fourth cheapest in Hungary. I do not want to talk about the fact that during the MSZP government, we have tripled the price of gas, and today we have seen various statements like this. But since I have begun to praise the MSZP, there is another thought that was also made yesterday and is related to today's topic. I heard that the 13th month pension will be returned. The one they took? That's all I know about for now. But if you're gonna retire, I'm gonna do it. How did the pension situation turn out after the change of regime? The increase in the retirement age is associated with two governments, the Horn government and the Bajnai government. The rules for establishing the pension were changed in 2008 with an 8 percent reduction in the initial pension. After the Antall government, the Horn government reduced the real value of pensions by 12 percent. What was the first government that managed to restore it, to raise it every year during the period of government? The first Orbán government. That's just a comparison to a proud remark. [[13.20]] But let's get back to the budget. I said family is an important aspect of government intentions. Why? For two reasons. On the one hand, because of improving the situation of families and, on the other, because of the demographic situation, the demographic situation is the number one national issue for us. Social policy is also important, and today it is most characteristic of the government's intention to promote self-strengthening and to support people in need of help. Let me mention two data immediately from the beginning. The budget is HUF 1900 billion for family support. That's eight percent more than last year, 140 billion. Obviously, it is worth mentioning the overall change in social spending - pension, family and social expenses - this year, I mean, in 18, more than HUF 287 billion this year. We look at the details: out of the 1900 billion forints mentioned above, there is a HUF 640 billion more to provide the family support in cash, and this together accounts for one third of it. The sum of the various tax incentives that help families is also significant, with a 14 percent increase in family tax incentives. It is important to mention the aspect that the civil government owns in social policy that labour-based subsidies, labour-related subsidies, have increased to 58 per cent and, on the other hand, 42 per cent are subjective aid. The work will also be encouraged. I mentioned various services that support families. It is obviously a kindergarten, nursery, child welfare, protective service, and, of course, social support such as free catering or textbook application. We spend more than HUF 400 billion on these services. And let's see -- it's a social expense, although it's not what we refer to -- wage increases, and here I am thinking in particular of what low incomes have received: raising the minimum wage and the minimum wage. But here, that includes tax cuts. With family tax relief, 130,000 families do not have to pay taxes. We know the extent of this, because everyone knows this: after one child, 10 thousand forints a month, after two children 35,000 forints a month now, as it rises every year, and after three children, there is a reduction of 99 thousand forints a month. I just mentioned the minimum wage. The increase in the minimum wage is gradual, when it was only HUF 111 thousand in 16 and already 127 500 in 17 and 138 thousand forints in 18. The guaranteed minimum wage increases even more: 180 500 HUF will be the sum of this next year. Family support is one of the issues, but I believe that support for children in need is an extremely important issue, so this border area is also included in the free meals of children. Nearly HUF 80 billion will be spent next year in support of this. This has gradually increased, and it has just come to the point that, in my opinion, all children in need, perhaps even beyond that, are not the only children in need, just as the provision of free textbooks for most of the children, as we have heard today, are entitled to one million children. And then let's look at the tax cuts. What does this mean for families in need? Another step has been taken to reduce the VAT on key foods. After pigs, eggs, milk and poultry, the fish's VAT is now reduced to 5 percent. In many cases, these items of social expenditure are not important for families and especially for families who spend a significant proportion of their income on food. Now allow me to say a few words to the first question I mentioned, the demographic issue. There is a measure that, I believe, indicates the status of the government's family policy, and this is the total fertility rate, which is also called the fertility rate. A few years ago, it was between 1.2 and 1.3. This is interesting for us because it would take 2.1 to allow society to reproduce itself. The population situation across Europe is a problem, which is particularly present at this time as a sharp problem. How did that figure out? Today it has increased significantly to nearly 1.5; 1,49. This means that the desire to have children - or, if we think it is called childbearing courage - has increased significantly. It is true that many other aspects affect population growth, mortality rates, migration and others, but this is what qualifies government work. We should also mention a significant 12 percent increase in the number of marriages. These, if they are not yet able to replace the number of people lost today, are certainly a good sign that a lasting, stable family policy will produce results, because it is known to everyone - and this is the opinion of the profession - that changing, possibly changing, family policy measures will discourage the desire to have children. In these two areas, that is about what we can say about the budget. In any case, the family budget, the government, is important for the situation and state of the family, and it is important that the demographic situation improves. It is also important that the people in need receive the right help, and we do so by raising self-esteem - their own contribution - with the help of state aid - to put their own lives in a better position. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The representative of Jobbik, Mrs Dóra Dúró, is next. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2017-05-18-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about the budgetary part in the education and culture sector, and not only directly about the items that are included in the budget for next year, but also about a broader outlook on government policy and budgetary decisions over the last seven years. Several people have referred to Eurostat data here in different sectors, the latest data on education, that social mobility in Hungary is in the worst position of all EU Member States. The hardest thing for us is for a child born in poverty to rise, to spend his years in a higher standard of living, to live his life in a higher quality of life; nowhere in the countries of the European Union it is not as difficult to break out of poverty as it is in Hungary. In this, it is clear that education has a primary role to play, all the policy decisions, all the budgetary decisions that have been made over the last seven years. In parallel, we see, and perhaps in this context, that the rate of early school leavers reached a ten-year peak last year, and in 10 years there were not so many people who left the school system without secondary education as last year. One in eight young people is currently out of education without a secondary education, so they can only complete primary school. At the same time, the proportion of functional illiterates has been increasing ever since the Orbán government came to power, with almost 20 percent of them now being within the whole society. But I could continue the line that shows what a faulty professional strategy or, in the absence of a strategy, wrong professional decisions have been made in the field of education, it is enough to refer only to the recent data of the PISA survey, and on the other hand - and to be more directly linked to the budget - the lack of teachers has taken such measures that the Parliament is preparing to amend the law in order to relax the requirements with which teachers' posts can be filled. Obviously, the teachers' absence is also due to the professionally flawed parts of the teacher's career model, but also to the funding issues of the teacher's career model. When this career model was introduced, only 60 percent of the wage increase planned in advance and announced by you could be guaranteed, and then the remainder was sent annually to the teachers. Moreover, when this was introduced, it was promised to ensure its value-proofness by linking it to the minimum wage. Thus, according to the original plans, the wages of teachers would have increased proportionately in each January if the minimum wage had risen. But what we also see in the next year's budget figures is that if we look at the salaries of teachers in different types of institutions and in different stages of the pedagogical career model, there are 13 groups where there are less wage financing, wages than in the year 17 next year, and there are only three groups that can expect a higher amount. The teachers' career model was separated from the minimum wage, so they could not guarantee its value-proofness, and we can see that Hungarian society, the education system, is paying the price. At the time of the introduction, the salary of an initial educator was 1.9 times the minimum wage compared to the minimum wage, and at the moment 1.35 times the minimum wage. So in a country where the salary of a junior teacher is so low compared to the minimum wage, it is quite clear that there will be a shortage of teachers. And by the way, the professional reasons that have led to this are only making this situation worse, making the situation worse, but they will not substantially help the government to resolve it. And if we are talking not only about educators, whose work is clearly essential to the functioning of the education system and schools, but also a few words about those who directly assist in educational work, because they also play a very important role in the lives of the institutions, then we see that their salary, their wages, is actually humiliating. Some kindergarten nanny earn only HUF 77-80 000 net after 10-15 years of employment, that's her monthly salary, although she does a very important job, she participates in the education of the future generation, she works for this salary every day. In a number of Parliament's submissions, we have tried to make it possible for them to raise their wages. There was no openness to this in the government on either occasion, although in our last motion, which we tabled at the Committee on Culture, we proposed a 30 percent wage increase, in which the amount to be spent would not have been 1 000 percent of the total budget, but there was still no openness in the MPs to improve this situation. I must also refer to workers in the cultural sector, who, in many cases, are forced to work for very low salaries. During my series of visits to cultural institutions, the fact that the workers were extremely underpaid came to the attention of each site. If I was in the archives, then the situation of the archivists, if they are working in a museum, the museum, if they are working in a library, then the situation of the librarians has been spoken about, and it is unacceptable that young people with a scientific degree can work in this sector for 110 to 120 thousand forints. Yet their responsibility and their work are extremely valuable, and the work they do, the preservation and mediation of national heritage for the young generation, I think it deserves much more respect. Although this has also been raised many times in recent years, it will not be possible to deal with this issue in substance. And if we are talking about family policy aspects here, I also have to talk about the situation of daycare workers, because even though those who have a pedagogical degree have been turned into the pedagogical career model, this is a minor part of those who actually work in the nursery. Their situation is so saddening that it already has a serious emotional cost for children. There are many kindergartens where the person of the caretaker changes every month, every two months, or even in a few weeks, just because the salaries are so low that it is simply not worth getting into work for that much money, and even the caregivers - because it is mostly women - can make more money as babysitters than they get in the nursery. Higher education is also an area on which I have to speak. I would like to highlight, in particular, the change in scholarships. With regard to funding higher education and public-funded places in higher education, we see that there has been a strong contraction since 2010. While the number of state-funded seats in higher education in 2010 was 68 thousand, only 57 thousand such opportunities were opened to graduates last year. This narrowing also led to the fact that the decline in state-funded places closed the possibility of social mobility, which I started speaking with, as Hungary is worth investing money, energy and attention in higher education at the moment and in the long term. In Hungary, it is also worth getting a degree for the individual, because if we are good at something in international comparison, it is the wage advantage for graduates compared to those with secondary education. So it's worth it for both the state and the individual to get a higher education. Compared to this, you have narrowed down the possibility of this channel in the last seven years, fewer and fewer students, young people who can get into state-funded places. And the fact that, in parallel, the rate of study scholarships has remained unchanged for ten years, while, for example, housing costs have increased many times, shows that higher education will become increasingly a privilege of the middle layer and even the higher classes in Hungary. [[13.40]] This will have extremely damaging social consequences, because if we cannot give young people an opportunity to rise, children born to poorer families will have access to higher education, we will not be able to make any meaningful progress in Hungary in order to increase the standard of living. Overall, what I can say about the budget presented, which concerns the education and cultural sectors, is that wages in these areas are still extremely low. The increase in teachers' wages would continue to be necessary, and the binding on the minimum wage would be essential in order to ensure its integrity. One of the solutions to the lack of educators can be seen in this. That is why, since the wage situation in these sectors is so terrible, Jobbik has also initiated the possibility of creating a European Wages Union, which was also adopted by the European Commission this week's decision, we can start collecting signatures so that we can implement the principle of equal pay for equal work within the European Union as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-18-66	Thank you. There would be two-minute speeches, but fortunately, they did not come forward. It is therefore up to a series of speakers who have been announced in advance. Congressman Béla Dankó, the representative of Fidesz, opens the march of this army - so many of them are terrifying! - and then Congressman Zsolt Bachelor. Congressman Danko, please.
u2017-05-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, One of the key indicators of government action is whether society's quality of life is improving. There is a need to make progress in terms of material things, increase wages and incomes, but it is just as important to ensure a healthy lifestyle, conditions for physical, mental and mental health, a healthy and viable environment. I consider it an important achievement in the draft budget for 2018 to include, among other things, a new wage increase for workers, further improving opportunities for domestic entrepreneurs and farmers. This is done by maintaining a macroeconomic balance, further strengthening economic growth and competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, Among our country's national strategy goals, the emphasis has been placed on creating the conditions for a healthy life, including sport. Recreational and quality sport intertwined with each other, investments in support of sport life contribute to the health and education of future generations. In recent years, the civilian government has taken a number of measures and has achieved significant results in this area, let us just think of the following. Measures taken to protect non-smokers, progress in reducing smoking, alcohol and drug consumption, organised health screening programmes for disease prevention and early detection, significant support for hospital infrastructure development, environmentally friendly transport modes and their infrastructure, the introduction of daily physical education in schools, the development of school classrooms, gymnasiums, sports fields, educational schools, national awareness-forming actions and campaigns, sports facilities development and the Tao sport support system. Ladies and gentlemen, One forint spent on sports brings back four forints in four years. In 2018, the main objective is to continue ongoing development programmes. The major developments in sport and public education infrastructure planned in 2018 are as follows: the government is committed to providing adequate infrastructure for public education, to establish schools, classrooms and gymnasiums from central budgetary sources across the country, and to enable children to learn swimming in everyday physical education. In 2018, the second phase of the national public education infrastructure development programme will continue, during which further educational schools, classrooms and gymnasiums will be built in the country. The 2018 draft provides approximately HUF 3 billion for the development of the school. The renovation and investment of educational and educational institutions are outstanding, with 3 billion funds in the 2018 draft budget. This includes classrooms, in some cases new schools and gymnasiums. An additional HUF 3 billion is available to finance the necessary furniture and equipment. There are also HUF 3 billion in funding for the gym construction program. In support of the development of sports facilities in the 16 priority sports sectors, the quality of the outstanding Hungarian central institutions, which also ensure the preparation of the selected ones, can be increased. It is also possible to develop regional sports centres, which also help to develop sports disciplines, such as methodological centres. The 2018 draft guarantees some HUF 8 billion. Dear Parliament, Back in 2010, the government decided, in the light of the devastating public health situation and sports habits, to declare sport, healthy lifestyles and top sport as a nation-class strategic sector and to promote it in particular. The successful form of the sport support scheme, which was transformed in 2011, is the Tao and corporate tax relief scheme, under which companies can use a specific part of the tax on them to support sport. As a result, since the introduction of Tao, the number of certified competitors has increased from 260 thousand to more than 350 thousand in visual team sports, and the growth is particularly significant in the field of replacement athletes. Soon volleyball will be in the taokör, so you can support six sports. Dear House, The fundamental law of Hungary emphasizes the right to physical and mental health and to a healthy environment. The measures I have presented and their resources as set out in the draft budget for 2018. Please support Hungary's central budget for 2018. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-18-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zsolt Legány, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-69	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, the draft budget law, is a proposal for injustice and corruption. The proposal of injustice is because the distorted social policy and the dislocated economic policy that the government is pursuing point to the injustices that I would like to address. We could mention a number of areas, practically all areas of life through which the government does not help those in need or those who should rather be helped. We may sometimes say as mantras that education and health care are in a bad situation. Well, to explain this, if we were to go through in detail how serious, structural and financial problems these sectors unfortunately have, it would be virtually short of 113 minutes on the framework of the MSZP. That is why we say that it is a budget of injustice, because Fidesz insists on the distorted social policy with which it gives the wealthier, the richer, and rather takes it away from those in need. The corruption budget is the bill before us because Fidesz and the government that institutionalized it in recent years have practically legitimized state corruption. Technically, we see either personal or company legislation in Parliament, when, of course, in the form of individual representatives' motions to avoid social consultation, to put different people, persons or different companies in the position of groups of companies, and to exclude people, persons and companies or groups of companies who do not like them, or at least make their operation in the area impossible. [[13.50]] That is why, as I said, because of institutionalized corruption, we say that this is also a budget for corruption. Unfortunately, my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, has already left the Chamber, but he began his speech by saying that he does not want to take part in the debate, but he would still like to say a few things. I don't want to get into the debate, either, but I'd like to say a few things about what he said. He started by saying that the program or programme elements of the Hungarian Socialist Party, let's say, was savaged, or at least under review, and said that the 13th month pension would be restored by the Hungarian Socialist Party, which is the case. So we want to re-introduce the 13th month pension in the event of our government entry, because the 13th month pension was introduced by the Hungarian Socialist Party in 2002 for pensioners after entering the government. And yes, in 2009, in the midst of or as a result of the global economic crisis, the government led by the Hungarian Socialist Party was the one that ended this, but I add that in 2006 Fidesz campaigned with a 14th month pension; in 2010, in retrospect, it promised 13 months; then, after going to government, pensioners saw that they had received nothing from the government, by the way. Of course, there are partial results that my fellow members of the Government or the secretary of state will be able to list, but nevertheless, pensioners have been made more difficult. Therefore, yesterday's announcement by our Prime Minister-designate that we want to restore the 13th month pension would indeed be a realistic and truly helpful step for pensioners. We do not see any reference to this in the current budget either, which is why this budget is a budget of injustice. My fellow Member, Mr Harrach, also mentioned that socialist governments raised the retirement age, and they said that this was not good and correct. Can I ask you again, have Fidesz and the government reduced the retirement age for the last seven years? No, because based on economic calculations, he saw that this would not be reduced. By the way, we think, let's say, with flexible retirement and other benefits, it could therefore be significantly shaped in the area, but, as I said, there is no reference to this in the budget of injustice. I would also like to put a question to you. In recent years, Fidesz, which institutionalized corruption, has carried out a massive privatisation. This privatisation was the sale of state land. Of course, we still protested against it, and we said that otherwise the Hungarian agricultural land would be in a very good place in the hands of the state, of course, some of it. But when this sale, let's just say it took place or went down, we then drew attention to the fact that the next big asset that Fidesz is going to steal from the country will be the forest. Over the last few months, weeks, statements have come to light which, in the next year's budget, have seen as budget revenue for the sale of the forest. Therefore, I would like to ask the secretary of state to make it clear and clear that Fidesz and the government want to sell the Hungarian forest. If not, we're happy for you. If this is confirmed here in Parliament, I thank you for that, but unfortunately, this fear has not been resolved. And, indeed, in recent years, there have been several times when the government and the governing parties could of course say that the opposition cried wolf, but there have been several times when the Hungarian Socialist Party called attention to certain cases and situations, Fidesz has often denied this, and then, after a few weeks, a few months later, we certainly saw back at government level what we called attention to. Therefore, I would like you to clarify whether the Hungarian Government and Fidesz intend to sell the forest. If you don't intend to do that, we're happy for you. If they say that they intend to, we believe that the same thing will happen again, that they will put the fidesz oligarchs and the fidesz potentates in position, and that this very important asset element, the very important asset element of the Hungarian state, would be attempted to be virtually pushed out. As I said, in relation to the budget of injustice and corruption, there is practically one thing we can say: both education and health care are under-invested. We do not see any compensation in the current bill for the withdrawal of over 1000 billion in the area of health. Let's hope that's the last budget Fidesz had. Of course, in the course of the elections next year, voters will decide whether Fidesz will submit another proposal for a next budget law. We would like to submit another bill next year if we came to government, where the emphasis was different, and it would be different, not to fill the pockets of friends with fidesz. Although I am afraid of the rigour of the leader, I will not describe and detail what I would like to say in a long way, only at the listing level, so as not to say that I am going to differ from the subject, but we have seen in recent times areas where Fidesz wanted to put in a position which is favourable to it and to make the other companies working in the market area in question impossible, even as we have just seen in relation to the advertising tax. Therefore, when we say that we can now face the budget of injustice and corruption, unfortunately, every element and every sign of this will stand up. Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2017-05-18-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Nagy, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, wishes to respond to his thoughts on behalf of the government. Here you go. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Yes, I wanted to ask you this. Thank you.]]
u2017-05-18-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I'd like to respond immediately and say immediately that there is no such thing. You just can't understand where these thoughts come from, what they're like. [[Attila Mesterházy: Media!]] secret desires can fuel our socialist fellow Members to raise these thoughts. The government has no such intention. I would also like to reject in the strongest terms the fact that the sale of land was the biggest corruption in Hungary. That's nonsense and stupidity! After all, by way of a public bid, the starting price was also higher than the local prices, it was possible to obtain these areas in competition. In addition, even after the suspension, so that local farmers could be strengthened, pre-purchased as pre-buyers of the neighbor, organic or biological farmer or livestock farmer, he could benefit from the purchase. They use statements, ratings, either for the entire budget or even for a partial question, that they become completely uncredited. So I would like to ask my fellow Members that the results that are self-evident should not be taken away, but the numbers do not lie: they tell me, show me what opportunities and developments are in it. So I would also like to strongly reject your claims about the sale of land, and in the case of the sale of the forest, I would like to remove once and for all the suspicion that someone is planning to be sold here. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-18-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The government is active, so then, although I should give the floor to Congressman Tessely, but due to the house rules, it is once again a government secretary of state. Secretary of State Banai, please.
u2017-05-18-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. I thought it was necessary for me to respond to Deputy Minister István Nagy, because the Deputy Minister, I think, clearly contradicted some of Mr Zsolt Legény's statements. I'm hoping I can disprove the other part of your claims. It is often said on the part of the MSZP that next year's budget is a budget for injustices and corruption, but it cannot be supported by concrete statements. So when they talk about injustice and often say that the budget gives a lot to a few, it gives little to many, it cannot be supported by facts. [[14.00]] We talked about the resources of education, health care. Mr President, if you have looked at next year's draft budget law, you will see that both sectors have substantial additional resources. And if, let's say, you do have an international outlook, you see that these extra resources are also significant in international comparison. Government numbers are often not believed. They often do not believe what is written in the budget figures, although there is no doubt that money market investors in the real economy can support the figures. Therefore, let me now give you a Eurostat number on nominal per capita change in health expenditure, the last Eurostat figure in 2014. Compared to 2009, health expenditure per capita increased by 19.5 percent in Hungary, at a time when public finances had to be consolidated. The Greek data is only symbolically -47.8 percent. Thus, in 2010 Hungary was able to increase health expenditure per capita after consolidation measures, in view of a serious economic situation; other countries were not only able to maintain it, but also significantly reduced it. In addition to Greek data, I would say two other Mediterranean countries: Spain -13,7 percent, Portugal -20.5 percent. It has grown in Hungary, and this growth is included in the proposal of next year's Finance Act. Retirements. Congressman said that no surplus was insured. Here is a table showing exactly what pension increases have been made to pensioners in recent years and what the consumer price index has been like. If the two are placed side by side by side by the Member, KSH data, this says that about 10 percent - the number I have seen - was a real increase in pensions. So this is worth taking into account when they make such clear statements that nothing happened; 10.1 percent! Mr President, if you consider the situation of pensioners to be important, I trust that you will vote in favour of this year's amendment of the budget law and next year's draft budget law, not only because these documents are about preserving the real value of pensions, but also that, thanks to the expansion of the economy, it will be possible to pay the pension premium. Finally, allow me to say that if the budget is only good for Fidesz's friends, I trust that the government has many friends, joining in what Secretary of State Katalin Novák said. [[Attila Mesterházy: Unfortunately, yes!]] According to the last fact, the increase in net average earnings in 2016 is 7.8 percent. We know the data for the first two months of this year, 11 percent, and 11 percent of the year as a whole, and 8.8 percent in next year's draft budget law. Finally, to reflect very briefly on the suggestion made by Mrs Dóra Dúró; obviously everyone who lives on wages would like to earn more. However, my statement is that all the sectors that were mentioned by the representative - daycare workers, educators, workers in the cultural sector - have received wage increases. I hope that if next year's draft budget law is adopted by the Honourable Parliament, there will be wage increases in the competitive sector and in many areas of the public sector. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-74	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, Congressman Zoltán Tessely, is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! Dear House, In the general debate on the 2018 budget, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary, as the parliamentary representative of the 3rd constituency of Fejér County, in Bicske, for having honoured the 2016 promise of building the building of the Gárdony Police Department, under the heading of the Ministry of Interior, and in three years it provided all the resources necessary for the construction of the new police department of the Gárdony district. I would like to remind you of what made this very important measure necessary. I would like to tell you why we are so pleased about this, why it will serve to further improve public safety in the vicinity of Lake Venice. Today's central building of the Gárdony Police Department was built in 1949 according to the needs of that time. He was a police station in Székesfehérvár until the year before the change of regime. In 1989, 35 people worked at the station. Today, the number has increased to almost 140, so the work takes place in four different buildings in separate locations.2015. From 1 July 2006 four new settlements - Vál, Ercsi, Ráckeresztúr and Szabadeggyháza - became under the control of the police department. In this area there are 55,000 permanent residents, while in the summer period there are 15-20,000 people in the holiday estates around Lake Venice. During the summer months, a large number of indoor and foreign bath guests also arrive on the shore of the lake, especially on weekends. And the numerous large mass events attract tens of thousands more to the settlements of the Tókörnyék, placing heavy tasks on our police officers. The municipality of the city of Gárdony - in recognition of the excellent work done at the precinct in difficult circumstances - has donated a very well-suited, own-owned area to the Ministry of the Interior in order to build the future new police headquarters building. Thanks to the Gárdony community for this. Because of what was said earlier, the police also indicated that the construction of a new police headquarters building was necessary in the city of Gardony. The total cost of the project is HUF 900 million, the duration of the project is 3 years, in which it was necessary to provide HUF 490 million in 2016, HUF 210 million in 2017 and HUF 200 million in 2018. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law No. 4 According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, it is necessary to ensure that only as much expenditure as is justified for the performance of public tasks is planned. Accordingly, only the amount of expenditure expected to be incurred in 2016 in the planning of the 2016 budget was planned in the budget of the police title of HUF 490 million. In view of the fact that the Parliament is T/4730/478. It decided to approve the construction of the police department with the above amount in the framework of the amendment proposal No 1 of the 2016 draft law on Hungary's central budget, since the amendment could no longer be made in the statement of reasons when the amendments were submitted. In Hungary, the planning of the central budget is so-called base-based, which means that the budget year will be planned on the basis of the expenditure and revenue for the previous year, which will be adjusted by the amount of the new and terminated tasks. In the former case, it increases and, in the latter case, reduces the appropriations concerned. The chapter justification of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2017 therefore includes the following sentence:. The police's appropriations include the expenditure for the 2017 phase of the construction of the Gárdony Police Department. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.10]] In the chapter justification of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2018, the following sentence is stated: the police's appropriations include the expenditure for the 2018 phase of the task: 200 million HUF for the construction of the Gárdony Police Department. With this, I wanted to reassure the stakeholders, the construction of the Gárdony Police Department is expected to be completed in 2018. There is no need to provide additional resources for this task. Thanks to the Government of Hungary for ensuring the security of the people living in the Gárdony district and the visitors to Lake Velence in three years, it has provided the necessary resources for the construction of the new police station, with a total of HUF 900 million. I would like to report similar good news as Prime Minister's Commissioner on the development of the first phase of the program under my control, concerning Etyek, Bicsk, Csabdit, Nagyeggyház and Tarján, as well as on Martonvásár in relation to the establishment of the innovation and visitor centre of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, but also in connection with the construction of the new district government office in Bicsk. In view of the short period of time, I would like to thank the Government of Hungary, as well as their respectable attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of Jobbik, Mr Cutter Sebestyén, is next. Here.
u2017-05-18-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I will talk primarily about the social sector as a policy-makers. The first and most important thing for the budget and the profession is the wages of social workers. Of course, we have heard once again from government representatives and representatives of the government about the improvements that have been made in terms of wages in this area as well, but by going about the profession, the institutions, speaking to former colleagues, I see exactly the opposite. It is indeed necessary to introduce a social career model, to argue with the government, to constantly argue with the government. They say that the current bonus system is perfect, but there are question marks here too. His perfection is also questioned by the level at which it has been established, as the table looks, as it is incomprehensible to everyone and, in many cases, unfair otherwise. I've been thinking a lot about the reason why the first more serious table was created and what the influencing aspects could have been. I have come to the conclusion that they have looked at how to get away with the cheapest, how there are those categories where the number of employees is taken into account, that the minimum amount of payments will have to be made, and yet, from a statistical point of view, the best figures will be the extent to which wages in the social care system have increased. It's one of the big drawbacks of a substitute, by the way. The other big disadvantage of the bonus is that it can be taken at any time. You say a great advantage, and you say the advantage is that if you had not received a bonus, but the wage had increased, the wages of social workers would not have been affected by the increase in the minimum wage. The wage of a large number of social workers has not been affected by the increase in the minimum wage, because, as can be seen from the circulars published, employers have in many cases compensated the missing budget line with removable allowances, and very many have not felt the rise in the minimum wage on their own skin. That's one of the reasons why this is questionable. Another reason why this is questionable is the sums spent on it. When you look at it, they usually talk about more than double the amount of allowances than it would be necessary to start or introduce a social career model. They talk about 70-80 billion forints, which have already been spent on the wage development of social sector workers. As I said, less than half of this could be achieved from HUF 30 billion, the social career model could be launched; otherwise, we have an amendment to the current draft budget. In order to eliminate the other negatives that you believe are against the career, my opinion is that it is not necessary to adapt a new social career model, the categories, numbers, payment classes included in it, but it should be adapted to the minimum wage at all times, and if we adapt it to the minimum wage at all, it does not matter when it grows, or, let us say, I even look out of you when the minimum wage is reduced, it does not affect the wages of social workers on average, and they can enjoy the benefits of any increase in the same way. 'Cause how could it be the 21st? In the first century, a country, in principle a Member State of the European Union, in principle an advanced civilization and, in principle, democracy, where the worker entering the labour force, in a very important area, in the social care system, is the employee entering the labour force in the table determining his salary, when he starts his work, does not reach the minimum wage and can only receive the minimum wage because the current minimum wage is as much as it is? This is nonsense and unacceptable in the 21st century. In the century, not only in Hungary, but in any area of the world, especially considering how humiliatingly low salaries we talked about. Several opposition representatives have already spoken about average earnings. We know very well that, at present, most of the workers in the social care system are not enough to starve to death. We are talking about a supply system that is essential for the operation of the country. We are talking about a supply system that is constantly lacking in expertise, especially because of poor pay conditions and also because of poor working conditions. Of course, it is possible to understand a social worker who, with several degrees, will not undertake to work with young people, elderly people or disabled persons, either in a large number of institutions or in a smaller number of institutions. In many cases, it's at least twelve, but we can go up as far as we can talk about a number of people, for the wages you get here. We know very well that even if you look at my area, you don't have to drive a lot and travel a lot to cross the Austrian border, and if you're dealing with an elderly person or a disabled child or a disabled adult, you're doing care-care tasks with multiple degrees for the caretaker in your home, you'll get a minimum of two to three times your home graduate salary, and I may have said a little. Are we surprised there's no expert? You can't be surprised. Not only the shortage of professionals and the poor payment classes are endangering the sector, but also other trends that can be seen from the budget. If we take into account the recently discussed legislative proposals, whether the pending ones or the already changed laws, we can observe that when we look at the child protection and child welfare systems and institutions, they will receive additional tasks from 1 January 2018, and the amount to be spent on professional and other developments in this year's budget is no more than the previous budget. I think that the additional tasks imposed on them and, by the way, the professional developments, which are also primarily extra tasks and extraphables, are not directly proportional to the development money that the sector, the child welfare and the child protection system receives on the basis of the draft budget for 2018. I do not know how the reforms you will be able to make will be implemented if the necessary financial resources, the resources needed for development, are not provided. [[14.20]] This is also the case with social sector developments, where the legislative changes of the past period and, in many cases, the changes that will take place as of 1 January 2018 and the cost implications of those changes are not directly proportional to what the budget provides for improvements. Speaking of wages, there is another important area that is at a disadvantage in terms of wage catch-up and wage development, and that is the position of the women in charge. You promised at a committee meeting, either on your own channels or on your own pages, that you would compensate for the wages of women in the field. Compared to this, we do not see any crumbs in the 2018 budget. It seems to me that again there is something that is usually played, and by the way, it has been played out with social workers and daycare workers, that they are also deceiving the sector, that the opposition is in the process of negotiating, that they are in constant contact with the stakeholders, that discussions are going on, that they are stalling, and that, finally, nothing is going to happen from normal and actual wage developments. It is unthinkable and unsustainable that today, a protective woman working in the field, who has a harder job in terms of risk or physical stress, earns, on average, HUF 80,000 less gross than the nurse in the obstetrics department of the hospital with the same degree, whether with the same experience or with the same amount of years worked. It's unsustainable! Once again, we do not see the crumbs of this in the 2018 budget. I'm gonna keep the bullshit again. We would like to avoid this, which is why we would like our amendment to make it possible for them to receive the money they want. By the way, if we look at the country's budget and put the unfair situation on balance, 5 billion would be necessary and sufficient to bring the wages of women in the field to the wages of health professionals. It's 5 billion forints. I think it shouldn't hurt the government enough not to do this gesture and this recognition for the women in charge. There is another important area that I would like to mention, and that is the question of those who receive care. They are the ones who are already in virtually absolutely unlivable condition. The other day, I turned to the Ministry with an oral question, and I got the answer to what great improvements the government has made in recent years. The fact is that care fees have increased, but if you think about the fact that there are several categories, you can agree with that, but I think that what is now given as a benefit in the highest category should be the basic application of the lowest category, the HUF 53 500. But let us consider the situation of those who live their daily lives with the caregivers who are in the most difficult situation. They get 53,500 forints. These are the people who can't leave their homes for a minute, they can't leave the bed, because their caregiver is in such a state, they may ask someone to go to a store, to an office, or to leave their homes in any other important matters. For them, what they receive is 53,500 forints. Let's think about this life situation. I have to care for a nurse, a disabled person, or someone in need of care at a higher cost, in a very poor health condition, every day in my home. I can't do any work, even though my costs are higher, and I get 53 500 forints for this. I am surprised that these people are still alive, that they can eat, that they can provide their caregivers with everything they need, and that they can even pay their bills. I think that we can appreciate the request, especially from those who receive care premiums in this category, so that their pay is at least equal to the minimum wage. Especially if you consider that the institutional care of a person with a serious disability or needing care would cost roughly HUF 100,000, and compared to that, the person who is willing to risk his life at home will pay HUF 53,500, I think it is also unfair and unfair. Not on these self-sacrifice and on those who do anything for their loved ones, but on those who actually take on a state task and tend to their own homes, care for their loved ones who are in need of care or care. I would ask the honourable government representatives and the government to consider our amendments. All of them are, by the way, professionally and from a fair point of view, correct. I believe that these amendments have a place in the budget. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party in today's debate will renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I would kindly ask the staff to modify the timeframes as announced. Now, before the two-minute speeches, on behalf of the Government, Secretary-General Károly Czibere asked for and received the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! I think that it is absolutely important to make some points on the four issues that have been raised. Let me go backwards in order of the topics raised. The first is the care fee. I think that there is a complete consensus here in the House and that those who receive a care fee are indeed doing superhuman work, when very often for years or even decades they are heroically, crucified by force, their own relatives, who are very often ill, helpless, unhealthy or in need of continuous care and care. I believe that there is complete consistency between us on the issues raised by the Member, and indeed we believe that the arguments that you have raised are worthy of appreciation. That is why the government has decided to start the increase this year. A modest increase has been made, and next year the increase will continue. In general, we propose a 5% increase in all rights to care fees, which is an increase of almost 2 billion in this overall budget. We are committed to continuing. We think the name is wrong, because it's not aid, it's actually a committed job. On the other issue, as regards the patrons, let me say that it is a mistake that there is no surplus wage funding in the budget, as there is a surplus of around 2 billion in the wage increase for the women of the defence. The government is committed and knows how important the work of the women in charge is, and keeps trying to signal it year after year. The third issue is the child welfare and child protection system. I do not think that additional tasks are present in the system, that the government would not provide additional resources. Think, Congressman, for example, of the fact that one of the most important tasks you have spoken about is the start of a social diagnosis. For example, the government will provide some EU funding for this, but it will be covered in the EFOP 1.9.4. Or I'll say another: a significant additional task from EU funds is the introduction of school, kindergarten, social assistance, now as a pilot, and there is the budget to cover it, HUF 5 billion, so that when the EU programme ends, it can be financed from domestic funds. Now children's welfare will receive 10-11 billion from the budget, which will increase by 5 billion. Children's welfare tasks financed by the central budget will increase by 50% annually, but the first step will be in the budget from September 2018. So I do not think the accusation is that we are not assigning additional resources to additional tasks. And the fourth is wages. I think we're on the same wavelength here. The government is committed to honoring those working in the social sector. Think of the average wage in the sector in 2013 was 143-144 thousand gross, and we are now reaching the 200,000 gross this year. So it can be said that every year there was a wage increase, it was in 14 there was a 12-billion-dollar wage supplement, then in 15-16 the wage supplement was 8-8 billion, and this year there was an additional HUF 9 billion. This is HUF 37 billion on an annual basis in addition to the minimum wage effect. I am absolutely shocked at the statement that the minimum wage increase has not affected the wages of social workers. 94 percent of the 90,000 colleagues working in the sector today were affected by this year's minimum wage increase. The whole thing just doesn't hold up that it didn't mean anything. It is very important that we did not allow the bonus to be included in the basic wage, that is so, because now they can benefit from this increase twice, on the one hand, the minimum wage increase and, on the other hand, the extra increase. [[14.30]] Together with the minimum wage increase and the supplement increase, it ensures that while the average has increased by 22 percent in the previous three years, from 144,000 to 175 thousand forints, this year we can reach 200,000 forints gross, and next year 230 thousand forints gross. And to do so again this year, next year, the government will give the maintenance staff the compensation for the minimum wage increase, not abandoning the maintenance staff to finance this significant increase. We think that together, a 60 percent increase from 144,000 to 230 thousand forints in four or five years is a pretty powerful message. And then I didn't talk about last year's social work day becoming a public holiday, or about the launch of a new free training program. So I think that we have taken a significant step forward in these years to appreciate the staff. But far from saying that we can stop here. It could also be mentioned that the additional resources for health care workers will start next year. I think the accusation that the government doesn't want to honor the employees is unfair. He does appreciate them, and through this wage, through other forms of nonmaterial appreciation, he also gives a number of witnesses. The amounts I have listed before me and this significant increase, the 60 percent increase under four to five years of age, prove this in terms of average. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-80	Thank you very much. Two-minute speeches; first, Jobbik's representative, Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to respond to Mr Béla Dankó's speech. Congressman said that spending 1 forint on sport would bring about 4 forints in profit. This is indeed the right number, if we consider international relations, in normal countries 1 forint spent on sports will bring about 4 forints. But here in Hungary we are talking about the Hungarian budget, and this is a strong slide. I'll tell you why. Because in other countries that 1 forint is actually spent on sports, we do not spend that 1 forint on sports, because 1 forint of money spent on sports can be about 30 forints if we consider the rate of corruption. In addition, various stadium constructions are not counted as money spent on sports, and the government has been at the forefront in recent times, since there is no other rich country in the world where, say, three supermodern stadiums would be built within a two-mile radius. If we go from the Gunner to the Üllő road, this will be the case at the moment, which is not sure if it will promote a healthy lifestyle when we use these facilities exclusively for the top sport. Moreover, at these construction sites, it is not transparent and unconventional in our opinion, as there will still be a lot of money to be spent on, which is also taken for sport, for mistakes, such as in the case of the Tide, where there is still no operator of the Tide Arena. The question is how much this will cost to tax-paying citizens. The other: he mentioned sports development and tao. It is the same with the Tao, because the Tao is also used for sports money, and this is a hotbed of corruption. You know as well as I do that there is no control that they abuse it, that in various professional sports associations, only fidesz leaders are sitting, and what they can do is steal from this money, and they don't use it to raise supplies, or they don't do that. You said that the strategic sector is sport. It is a shame that they want to spend a great deal of HUF 25 million on the promotion of sport this year as well. 25 million forints to promote sport! I think it's outrageous. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-82	Congressman Zsolt Legány, MSZP.
u2017-05-18-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to Secretary of State. It is comforting for me to hear the Secretary of State say that the forests are not to be sold by the government. Unfortunately, I must say that although I do not doubt and respect the professional competence and experience of the Secretary of State, if the forests were to be sold, unfortunately they do not decide in the FM, but in higher circles. That would have been my first comment. And with the other, I would like to respond to Secretary of State Banai. Mr Secretary of State mentioned the additional benefits the government is providing to pensioners, and he also tried to support this with numbers. I understand all of this. It's just, you know, the thing is, retired people don't really feel it. In addition, he also presented figures on how much worse health in Greece, for example, or just after that he mentioned Portugal and Spain. I understand that, too. Only then, Mr. Secretary of State, you probably haven't been to hospitals lately, because hospitals and hospitals are in such unblessed conditions that I understand, of course, that hiding behind the numbers, you can say that health also received extra resources and extra resources, only the great Hungarian reality is saddening, and indeed the voters feel that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-18-84	Mr. Béla Dankó, Fidesz! I will inform Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I see his name, but in a two-minute session only one member of each group can speak. Next time. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You'll have to forgive me for focusing solely on football, which is what I have a bigger perspective on. Let me tell you some facts, to disprove what you're saying. It is regrettable that, in addition to the press, you focus solely on 32 stadiums, although the facts are that in the past period, since the launch of the program, we have built 1002 brand new football fields in Hungary, and we have renovated 1513 football fields. This means that a new football field could have been built in the smallest settlement. We did not do this for our own benefit, because if we look at the facts that, for example, when the Bozhik program was launched, less than 20,000 children were included in the association program, we have now raised this number more than double and there are 50,000 children in the association program. At the start of the institutional programme, there were 28,000 children, and 102,000 children have now been involved in this programme. So what we wanted to achieve was to massify, involve as many children as possible in sports opportunities, make them healthier, and create infrastructure conditions, thank God, we've achieved, I think, given today's trends, how difficult it is for children to be removed from the computer, from television, those hundred-year-old infrastructures couldn't have done that. With those unfair circumstances, it was not possible to do so. Resources must be provided for this. The Hungarian government did this. And thank God, once again, in the smallest settlement, in the smallest village, these facilities could be renewed, new orbits could be built. And these are facts, Congressman. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-86	We will return to the speakers that have been announced. Congressman Sándor Bodó, the representative of Fidesz is next. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, Allow me, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, to start by talking about facts and figures on the draft budget. According to the bill submitted, next year's revenue will be HUF 18 740 billion, while the expenditure side is expected to reach HUF 20 101 billion. The deficit will, in absolute terms, be HUF 1360 billion, which is well below the 3 percent Maastricht criterion. As stated by the SAO, 100 percent of the revenue appropriations audited by the SAO and 90 percent of the expenditure appropriations are well-founded. According to the bill before us, the sovereign debt ratio will fall to 68.2 percent by the end of next year. Thus, the obligation to reduce the public debt-to-GDP ratio set out in the Fundamental Law is also fulfilled. The deficit target of 2.4 per cent, calculated according to the EU methodology, remains below the requirements laid down in EU and domestic legislation. Of course, every budget has a risk, as unexpected events can happen at any time. For example, such a risk may arise if external conditions deteriorate or the international economic activity goes unadvantaged, but I could also describe the delay in receiving EU funds. They are used to prevent various reserves. When planning a budget, expenditure can always be better planned than revenue. The failure to do so may therefore also pose a risk, and it is therefore a very joyful fact that the HUF 110 billion allocation of the reserve for extraordinary government measures in the central budget is well-founded and seems sufficient to address realistic risks. This is also the only thing I can tell you about the HUF 60 billion appropriation of the National Defence Fund. [[14.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that economic growth can accelerate next year, because residential consumption is increasing, thanks to significant wage developments. According to economists, the expected average gross wage increase will be 8.8 percent. According to the surveys, corporate expectations also reflect years of unexplored optimism about planned domestic sales. Hungary's companies are also calculating an improved trend in terms of key export markets. Investment is also stimulated by the expected re-enlargement of EU funds, increasing lending and increasing investment. On the production side, a recovery is expected in all sectors for the following year. According to experts, the most favourable prospects are livestock, wildlife, forestry, electric machinery production and the automotive industry. In my view, a very favourable macroeconomic environment is expected for 2018, which is supported by the 2018 budget, as it helps families and businesses. Allow me to note some specific examples, some specific backgrounds, of the budget. 79 billion HUF for free children's meals. This is a relatively large sum, and here in Parliament we are often hearing the fact that some of our fellow Members require this doubling and then doubling the double, even though if they knew this colorful and rich world in a bit of detail, I think they might consider what opportunities we have. The school food program is a very colourful world, as I mentioned, because it has a school milk program, a fruit program, and the intention to help is clearly visible and seen. In the previous period, it was only useful during school diligence, and then there was summer break, autumn break, and then winter break, and really I'm just parentheses asking you what the sequel might be. We know very well that there are families in this world who need them for various reasons and can expect significant help from the state. But we also need to see in this situation that there must be a limit to parental responsibility, because it doesn't work because parents actually take care of it with one hand, and the children will be taken care of by the state. We can also see very often, as a concrete example, that the children of families in relatively modest financial situations spend very much on chips and soft drinks in the store, because they are not at home discussed, or they may not have been able to help with this family intention that they do not necessarily have to buy what the children want at first. I know this is a difficult job and a long educational process, but this is something that needs to be worked on. So here's the parenting responsibility, I think it should also be part of this program, because what the kids get, you should thank and eat, and today we see school neighborhoods, schoolyards sometimes, when after a snack, for example, we can determine very specifically what the menu was that day, because thrown away fruit peel or bottle or milk can, cocoa can or cheese paper is there, these marks are clear. In this situation, it is also a concrete fact that these school kitchens do huge work and huge things here, because it is not enough to think about the busy days, the 185-190 days, but they are now working almost full capacity for many days, although they were not designed for this. It is quite clear that every day in school must work perfectly, but there must also be maintenance, cleaning, cleaning, engineering work. It is also a fact that the organization of a school meal obviously requires teachers, family supporters, the caretaker, the maintainer, the opener, the locker of the building. Therefore, without the cooperation of these colleagues, this programme would not be successful and complete, so obviously they should be thanked. The next story that I have about the budget is that we strengthen security, maybe that's how it can be summarized. Danger at the borders, we see this, we know it, we know it, but there may have been less talk about it, that the rural population, in particular, asked with a little fright that it was good, good, but what will happen to us, who will look after us. Thus, the government's measure, which gives us more money for law enforcement and for strengthening public security, will guarantee this process. I have to say that I really am able to convey to you the experiences I see in the constituency, because the security situation, public security, has actually improved rather than deteriorated. It's obviously more complex. It's part of public employment, it's part of a lot of other things, but I think the police's position is definitely decisive in this story, and the salary increase of soldiers and law enforcement workers will continue in a very correct way in the next period, really thanks to them for their work. The following is a comment on the labour market. In order for someone to work successfully, he should have a relatively good time at work, and more things have to come together. I think it is very important that there is a spiritual security about, let's say, that your children are in the right place in the meantime, and I think that this is one of the decisive aspects of all aspects. There are situations in which parents have to use nursery services. This also has a changing background for each family and person, but there is one. Between 1994 and 1998, a lot of settlements lost their cradle, since the cradle funding also ceased, and perhaps at that time we didn't even feel the extent of the damage that had been caused, which to date can hardly be compensated. We now see that in many settlements, rural settlements, in our constituency too, these crèches have re-launched, obviously with the background of funding, or in kindergartens there have been mini groups, which are also intended to serve to help the adult members of the family perform their jobs more calmly. This is not only a social problem, so it is not only the children of socially troubled families in the nursery - obviously also helping in this regard - but it is very much possible that this institutional system can help active labour market participants, and the wages of daycare workers have been well and well settled, for which it is also recognised. The fourth point that I thought about in relation to the budget is the large enterprise investment programme, which is relatively less mentioned, although it deserves our attention. Of course, we know the structure of the Hungarian economy, the large number of small businesses is important, but there are big companies, there are also tasks that deserve attention, and I am very pleased that the government can grant non-refundable support to investments in the employment-enhancing manufacturing industry of large Hungarian companies not receiving EU funding, thus supporting the reindustrialisation efforts. There is also an example of this in our constituency, in the town of Nádudvar. The food industry in Nádudvar is quite famous, I think that it deserves attention throughout the country, so it deserves attention in the meat products market. This programme has provided support for greater engagement, involvement and development there, and I hope that many will be able to follow this example. In fact, I have given these examples only because, in relation to such a budget debate, sometimes we tend to prioritise political overtones. We do not always pay attention, we do not always see what is behind a decision, how it is realized at the ends, how it is realized, but I believe that if we try to include our own experiences in such a budgetary debate, seeing what is behind a decision, we can make decisions more effectively and easily. Therefore, I would also ask you all kindly to support the budget plan. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Teleki, representative of the MSZP.
u2017-05-18-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, I asked Mr. Secretary of State a few questions, and I would like to repeat one thing, because I did not get an answer, although I received very exhaustive answers to the rest, so I would like to thank you anyway. This is that I mentioned four points of the national Roma strategy: education, employment, housing and health. [[14.50]] Regarding housing issues, Gypsy settlements, I say that there are 650 Gypsy colonies - once again - in Hungary today, and there are some 120 thousand people living in this 650 Gypsy settlements. How would you like this issue to be dealt with in a complex way so that your employment legs can be seen, your health leg can be seen, and besides that, you can clearly see the great role of education? I don't see that in the budget. I would like to remind you that, from 2002 onwards, there has been a budget line each year, where there was a separate amount for the eradication of Gypsy colonies, and you also had it in 2012 and then disappeared from the budget. I'd like to ask you where the budget money went for this. The framework strategy that was adopted, how will it be implemented if this issue is not dealt with? I would consider it very important that the housing foot of this programme would be clear to everyone. Today, despite the fact that we want to achieve different results in education, we can achieve partial results, I report, because they are certainly unable to reach university, college or very, very minimal numbers from the Gypsy colony. Therefore, if they want to give equal opportunities within the Roma groups, then there must be an opportunity to show 120 thousand people at some level a way that can be achieved for them in the situation they are in. There has been a lot of talk about the family support system. I would like to add to this, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Secretary of State, how the family support system will be implemented, let us say, for the people who live here, how it will be realised that they can get access to the family support system. If it's just public employment for them, I can tell you that you can't see how they can break out of the spiral they're in. That is why I would ask how that question can be dealt with in such a way that they can move towards education, or just what I said yesterday, towards health. I do not see that you can handle these issues properly. I said it yesterday, and I would also like to highlight the good thing right now. Kindergarten free is also a very important moment for Gypsy in Hungary, because from then on they can at least give them the basics, and this is very important. It is true that the problem here is that, for example, there are no seats in the Jászság where I go. There's not enough room in Tiszabó, near Tiszaroff, for children to be laid by kindergarten educators. What about this question? How can they expand space? This is also unclear in this budget whether it will have the opportunity, either from European Union funds or from domestic sources, to enable these children to be fully laid down. Now, as I see it in practice, there is no such thing. The other area I would like to go to, and this is actually the main directive of today, culture. I know very well that there are different sources of culture in the budget, and they are clearly in there, and they are not small amounts. I would like to ask - I have listed four areas in the field of culture - how, for example, Roma musicians will have a wage system designed to give entrepreneurs, whether entrepreneurs or musicians themselves, the opportunity to play music and not starve to death in this country. I know that there is a proposal that has now been written out, and not with a small amount, with HUF 5 billion, only the biggest problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that it only affects Budapest. It only affects Budapest - what is the reason? This spring will probably stay in the big hat. Why can't this program be advertised nationally? It's a good program, by the way. I have already said in my speech in Parliament that in tourist places where these Roma musicians could play today, whether in Zalakaros or in Hévíz, or in other thermal baths, there would be a demand for it, the catering units would demand it if they could get a discount, but the Roma musicians would also demand that they be able to work. Believe me, I talk to a lot of musicians. The values they carry will be lost, will die if you do not help them to go out and live with their families every day. So what do you want to do with the situation of Roma musicians within culture? [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The second point is the question of language. Many governments have sacrificed to capture both gypsy languages at some level. Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to ask Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State, because he is part of the responsibility of the territory for what they intend to do to keep the two Gypsy languages inside, whether they are horseshari or beas. What you can see today is that the language charter that we announced, by the way, has already started in 2001 and we have continued, but now I do not see that it will be fulfilled. Where can you find the line to find financial resources, even if hidden, that give you this opportunity? I will not tell President why it is important that the Gypsy language is not lost, on the contrary, to be strengthened, because of two things. Not only from the point of view of culture and traditionalism, but a lot of graduates are choosing this as a foreign language, and it has been accepted by the accreditation system. Therefore, I think it would be important for as many people as possible to speak gypsy language, the Roma language, because then it could be said that integration could accelerate much better. However, without the language value being preserved and the language charter being held up a little bit better, it will not work. And the third is the media. There's a lot to say about the media. They often ask why specific media should be developed, such as ethnic minorities, in this case the Roma. All I'm saying is that. Just because you can't be without a nationality having a media system that speaks to either its own or to a majority society. You know very well that there was a Radio C here in Budapest. It is true that this Rádió C had non-governmental support, not state support, but private foundation support, but only one thing is certain that everyone in Budapest listened to it, literally everyone listened, Roma and not Roma alike, very, very, very powerful ratings of listening. Today there is no Radio C, it has ceased; not today, but 4-5 years ago. There's nothing for him. I know MTV has a few minutes at Roma magazine. Secretary of State, I don't judge when and how many minutes you're in. It's up to your conscience whether or not you want to continue to do something about it. One thing is certain: if the media is not opened to the Roma, isolation will be absolutely visible and isolation cannot be prevented. It is therefore your responsibility whether the media or the media will be opened on your behalf. I am thinking not only of the printed media and not only of the radio, but also of the TV, Roma magazine, that we should think about it, so that we can continue to see this period. The fourth area of culture. It is true that you have already allocated a certain source to the Roma cultural institute in Budapest. When can we expect to get something out of this? Where can you find the line in the budget where you can show the amount of money that has been reported? Not only in Budapest, but in different parts of the country, especially in cities with county rights, it is very important that a Roma cultural centre should be established, a Roma cultural educational centre, because they do not exist. In 2001, then Secretary of State Donchev Toso, who led the Office of Nationalities, Ethnics and Minorities, may remember him, launched a very good initiative. This initiative was the construction and construction of community houses, of Roma community houses. It was a network where education, culture and school programs could be operated. This system worked very well. You started it, and we continued to deal with it for eight years, and today you cannot see the role of community houses. In fact, I would also like to say that you took 68 million forints from the community house in Nagykanizsa with an account already in place, 68 million forints were in the local government account, because if you are not tied to it, this community house will collapse, literally, where, in 11 years, more than 600 people graduated as adults - nearly 70 percent of which are not Roma, 30 percent Roma - in a Roma community house. [[15.00]] I have repeatedly asked various members of the government, János Lázár, for example, the last time, to return that amount to this community house, because if it is not returned, there is no way to talk about doing work there that can bring satisfaction to everyone. I would go further: when I say that community houses were a good initiative on your part in 2001, that if there were no such bases, cultural bases, educational bases, then the parental background that we cannot and cannot replace a lot of times, how would you want to do that? Therefore, it is essential to rethink the system of community houses, because even if they do not know, neither the school programs will be as successful as we would like, nor the culture that I have said, whether in terms of musicians, musicians or various cultural presentations or gastronomic presentations. Therefore, these questions are still embarrassing the Gypsy in Hungary, and I will not ask you today, but I will ask you poetically where Flórian Farkas has gone. Where did Flórián Farkas go when we were talking about a budget year 2018, and he should be here as a prime minister and confirm the Gypsy and non-Gypsy in Hungary that this budget is also a bit about integration, the integration of Roma. Unfortunately he wasn't here last night, I was here until 9:30 p.m., he wasn't here, I don't see him all day, but I'm sure he'll come in after my speech, and he'll tell me where the Roma catch-up is. If not, then again, as we have not heard it in three and a half years, neither will we today. Dear Secretary of State, Then I would ask that my speech, if not considered right or wrong, be taken out of the thoughts you will give in response to the intention of improving Gypsyism in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-18-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Czibere asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-18-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think these points are both good and responsible, and I would like to thank you. There's no time limit for me to go into all of them in detail and answer them, but I'm trying to go back here in a few lines. With regard to the topic of community houses: in each of the settlement programmes that have just been launched, each programme is part of the community. The project will now be implemented in a new approach in the coming years, essentially through the development of the local community, strengthening the resources of the local community, and an important part of this is to have a community room, a community room and a community house. This has been, and will be, an important part of the development in recent years. The next important issue is the question of FROKK, so it is the cultural centre. Here, Mr President, you must have been aware that in December this was significantly increased by the Government, and that its operation is included in the '18 budget. After all, we plan that it will be able to start from about spring, no later than May, June, if the investment progresses at such a pace. Thus, the pro rata part of the operating resources is included in the Budget Act. The next question is the question of the media, culture, language and Roma youth. We also believe that the very important part of social inclusion is to bring together the values and values of the majority society and Roma culture. Let us provide as many forums as possible where they can not exist as separate societies, but through culture we provide an opportunity for a common path, a common destiny and a common future to determine living together, not living side by side, and culture is an important part of that, as you have mentioned. Those cultural applications have been put out for this reason, there are several programmes with domestic funding and EU funding. But let me refer you to Minister Zoltán Balog's announcement in the middle of March, when you will join us. The program has been published. It is extremely important that we also meet these prepared Roma young people on the screens. The scholarship programme that he announced, together with MTVA, serves this purpose. So now it is being implemented and carried out. We therefore believe that significant progress has been made both in cultural terms and in the media. Let me briefly refer to the colony programme and its impact on health. The sources of this are essentially not in the Finance Act or not only in the Budget Act, but also in the two major EU developments. Not only did the government set out in the catch-up strategy that something had to be done about the housing problem of disadvantaged families, but it was broken down into a policy measure, a policy concept was made, and it was approved by the government in August 2015. We call this a short-term settlement strategy, and it includes the new approach that needs to be ensured in the coming years - community development, diagnosis, presence programme, so there are many elements that you know for sure - with a budget of 22.5 and 22.8 billion, one of which is the ERDF, the developer, the investment and the other is the ESF type, and the two together are almost HUF 45 billion. I am very confident that we can help with hundreds of segregations, segregations and settlements, so that it can then be sustainable in the long term, because these resources should only be used if local resources are strengthened so that the community, when the EU money and support period is over, can continue to achieve these results. I trust that this programme will serve this purpose. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Mr László Salacz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-18-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my comment, I would like to address the activities of the Ministry of Justice. By adopting the Government decision on judicial policy of 1710/2014, the Government defined the main principles which also define the objectives of the judicial portfolio. The Ministry shall carry out its legislative tasks in order to ensure effective representation of national interests before effective cooperation with the judicial system, European and other international fora. In order to implement the judicial legislative plan, it carries out very important codification tasks in the government cycle, with the codification of codes of private law, criminal law, administrative procedural law and administrative order. According to this, one of the priorities of the 2014-18 period is the implementation of the new Civil Procedure Act and the new Code of Criminal Procedure, the renewal of administrative procedures and the performance of tasks related to the entry into force of administrative proceedings. The Ministry of Justice's budget proposal for 2018 consists of expenditure and revenue appropriations for the Ministry of Justice's administrative and chapter-based appropriations for the chapter. However, with the termination of the Justice Office and its melting to the Ministry, victim protection, legal assistance and protective oversight tasks also appear in the daily life of the Ministry. The victim protection strategy has been adopted, in which the topic of victim protection is highlighted. The Ministry set a strategic goal to promote victim support in a comprehensive manner in the years 2017-2018. In this context, the establishment of a victim-protection crisis centre will be a significant stage and will function as an independent organisational unit. The General successor of the Justice Office has been the Ministry of Justice, given that the succession in connection with the review of certain central offices and ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies and the takeover of certain public tasks has ceased by merger on 31 December 2016 with succession. [[15.10]] In this context, I would add that the forensic experts and research centres merged with the Criminal Experts and Research Institute as of 1 January 2017. Let me draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, thanks to the changes mentioned above, the average statistical number of the Ministry of Justice chapter for 2018 has changed from 1118 to 584 following organisational changes. The Ministry of Justice shall perform both the functional and professional functions necessary for its operation as a result of its basic activities. The Ministry also provides for a register of centralised revenues in connection with the business register and the company information service. As a legal entity, it carries out the following tasks. The primary task of the patron in his supervisory function is to reduce the risk of repeated crime. The Patronage Inspector will facilitate the criminal consequences and the security of the community through the implementation of Community penalties and the control of the perpetrator in the community. In this context, the Ministry shall contribute to the methodological management of government offices. The central body of the family bankruptcy service shall carry out its statutory tasks and shall contribute to the related coordination and information tasks. In its role as the Judicial Services Law Academy, it operates the institution for the sake of effective justice, in which it prepares methodological resolutions to facilitate uniform application of the law. The budget proposal of the Ministry of Justice's administration includes HUF 6 billion HUF 96,9 million in expenditure, financed by HUF 630.2 million in revenue and HUF 5 billion in HUF 466,7 million in funding. The average number of statistical staff, as I mentioned earlier, is 584. With regard to the 2018 budget for support for organisations and professional programmes under the Ministry's supervision, I would like to point out that those concerned can expect the same scale of expenditure and support compared to the previous year in order to promote the quality of legal training, prepare legislation or manage legal assistance in the chapter. For your information, no programme, investment or development of several years' appropriations will be launched in the light of the proposed legislation. However, the role of the use of EU funds is of paramount importance in terms of the Ministry of Justice's social policy and policy objectives. It participates in more projects than preparatory and as a participant. This will be the e-retail register or the. Legal assistance at all stages of the procedure. Overall, we can conclude that the Ministry of Justice constitutes a decisive chapter in Hungary's central budget, which includes the necessary cover for achieving the objectives set out in the law. I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the budget presented. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, it is up to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-05-18-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to be fair, but I am still very critical of those speeches and, in fact, not only of today's speeches, but also of what - respect for the exception - pro-government politicians are allowed to do for themselves at local, local, local or public events. I would like to draw your attention and state the fundamental fact that when any development takes place in small settlements, large settlements, cities, anywhere else, by the way, if we talk about EU funds, you do not make it look like it's a favor, it depends on your favour where it happens. I would also like to bring Gábor Bányai here today, who is going through all the settlements of his own constituency in order, and in almost a decisive part he has classified the developments launched from EU sources, but does not add - because then let us shed light on the truth - this is not a government achievement. That's your job. EU funds do not depend on how and how you do it; they depend on it; of course, they must be called down and properly implemented and not stolen, as is otherwise the case in many cases. But basically, you don't have to thank the voters. This is not in your favor that there is some sort of EU development going on somewhere. Because it's the style - and once again, respect for the exception, who doesn't have a shirt, don't take it personally, but what some Members, politicians on the ground, politicians in constituencies, nationwide, in various press organisations, that style, that prickly Döbögi style they're putting on, as if it were up to me whether there was any development or not, it's unbelievable. That arrogance, that arrogance, that arrogance, that's what needs to be stopped. I'm not, and we're not, a fan, and we're happy to have as much improvement as possible, but let's just say that this would require some humility and some restraint. Because the style that's been going on for many years now, and in an election year or a campaign period, it's getting even stronger, you just have to watch the local press conferences, in what style, how they're going to take place, so let's put this right. I wanted to say here in the debate and the protocol that this is not government performance. Government performance is how responsible we can be with public money, how responsible you can be, and what you will actually do is that in many years' time, when the use of EU funds is controlled, how much will have to be repaid because of the various corruption mechanisms. That will be the real achievement, and that will be the standard. It is not that the Union now gives money for something, and then you will kindly cut through the red-white-green ribbon and perform as the result of the fantastic work of the individual representative. In this, I would like to see some humility and some restraint, because it is very wrong that public funds are treated as our own property and distributed as if they were actually determined by the relationship with me, whether a settlement or a local government would benefit from some kind of development. I say this precisely because there are many, many small settlements with elementary problems. I have tabled an amendment to this, of course, for this year's budget. I would particularly like to talk about settlements under 2 thousand, where there are basic infrastructure deficiencies and problems. The settlements of less than 2 thousand people are almost out of every utility application, sewerage application, which has been waiting for many decades. I could list a number of settlements in Heves County. Recently, Minister János Lázár made the proposal and shared with me that it would be fortunate to provide a separate line of HUF x billion in the 2018 budget for which only municipalities under 2 thousand can apply specifically for these purposes, to replace sewerage and other utility shortages or to modernise them. That is why I have tabled such a proposal and I am very curious about where and how it will appear in your budget when the votes on the amendments are, of course, taking place. But I would like to draw attention specifically to the fact that this is an elementary problem, and in many, many small settlements this causes everyday problems. At the same time, the speakers before me, I can safely say, have talked a lot about the tensions and problems of the various sectors in terms of pay, regardless of party standing. [[15.20]] Obviously, on the pro-government side, it was highlighted what wage increases were made, what additional benefits were made by the government, and from the opposition side, their scale and their shortcomings appeared. That is clear, and I think that we will not have a fight about the fact that the wages in Hungary, with the exception of the banking sector, are almost all the same, if we take any sector, they will be dwarfed and lost compared to the average wage in Western Europe. And we are no better at showing the government's performance if, for example, in 2009 we could say for an average wage in Hungary that it is around one third of the German wage in the same sector, and now one quarter of it. This shows the performance that the rate of breakage is steady and, unfortunately, increasing at an increasing rate. I understand that everything has limits and limitations, and they can't, let's say, achieve a 5-10-15-20-50-70-percent wage increase at the same time, but I would also like to lay down the basic item, and I don't think that again, if they want to speak honestly, they can argue: today in Hungary there is money for everything the government tells us to have. What you're saying you don't have, there won't be. But if you really want something, there is plenty in the ranks of that good, big budget that you can delinquent on what every investment, we spend amazing billions on every item that, if you think about it, may not even be at the bottom of the need pyramid if you look at the problems of the great Hungarian average today. That is why we have launched the historic initiative known as the Wages Union, on which the European Commission made a decision the day before yesterday, and I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have already dealt with the extremely false arguments you have put in order. We have never said that the issue of the Wages Union initiated or raised by Jobbik will be announced tomorrow, carried out the day after tomorrow, and that in three days Hungarian employers will pay wages in Germany. What we want to achieve, and that is what we are proposing, is that the principle of equal pay for the same work should be included in the EU Statute. There is one problem that we should not have raised this 13-14 years after the accession of the European Union, but the always-regulating Prime Minister. Which, let's be honest, if Viktor Orbán is fighting freedom with Brussels, as he was in the storm... - or didn't happen, he has never exercised, for example, his right to veto. Never in anything! He has never confronted any international players, such as wages in Hungary, for example, for the sake of any actual elementary Hungarian problem, because the commodity has been achieved. No one will dispute that if we go to any store in Hungary, we buy almost the same amount as we buy - often more expensive - also in Western Europe. And our proposal, our motion, is about how cohesion policy should be changed, for example, and every Member State should play a role in this, and it should have a role to play, for example, in spending integration money: on Chinese artifacts and fountains, or possibly on investment creating jobs, or perhaps on reducing contributions, which could, where appropriate, mean raising wages. This is what we are talking about when we say that this is a historic mission, and it is not our shame that Jobbik is the first to take a meaningful step in 2017. And it's no coincidence that we didn't have a hard time finding partners in the other seven countries, which are, by the way, ruling parties. Your shame is that you've been silent about this, and you're listening to it now, and you're trying to mislead society with that false illusion and false argument that we want to give Brussels the right to levy taxes. No, we don't want to give you anything. What we want is what you, among other things, have misled the population of Hungary in the campaign before accession to the EU, that we are entering the European Union and that we are going through unprecedented development, not only in the infrastructure sense, but also in the financial sense of individuals. Only the opposite was realized. And it would be good for you to consider the possibility that if you have already failed to do anything for this matter, how will you deal with this question in the future? I think it is not a shame to admit that the other person has a very important programme, which, by the way, is in the interest of all Hungarians regardless of party status, age, gender, ideology; I even go further: it is in the interest of the Member State of Central and Eastern Europe. And why am I saying this in the budget debate? That is because, in the course of the budgetary debate, wage tensions in the various sectors may appear most often. And if we are talking about wages, and if we are talking about wage increases, then obviously the direct consequence of this is either emigration or demographic crisis or the pension system. It doesn't matter how wages develop in Hungary in the medium to long term. It doesn't matter how much tax will be collected by the state, and it doesn't matter whether the youngest, freshly completed workforce, whether the graduate or skilled worker, will work in Hungary and whether it will tax in Hungary or in other countries of Western Europe. This is already a matter of national strategy, and it is not a story of which party first highlighted it or what party has done to this end. Their responsibility is that if such a proposal has already been launched and we have done it for you, then how will they deal with this question in the future. Are they trying to keep sweeping everything under the rug, or will they join, if necessary, even take the lead, so that we can fight the only real struggle that makes sense to confront Brussels? Because we must not declare war against educational institutions, not against NGOs, and not against phantoms that Viktor Orbán does, but then we must fight shoulder to shoulder, and we will be the first allies to raise Hungarian wages, for example. And that's what I think you should be thinking about, for example, about a budget, not arguing that I shoveled more out of the pit into pit B this year than I did last year's budget, and that's all right. It's not gonna be okay. It will be all right if we do the historical justice that this country has been waiting for for for 13 years and not just this country, but all of Central and Eastern Europe. Because it's a matter of fate, not just for us, but for everyone in the region. So I would ask you to think about this, and to do so, politics, not just for the next few months, but for the next few years, regardless of whether the responsibility is in a political party or in an opposition or in a government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-18-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am forced to argue with several statements made by Mr Adam Mirkóczki, and I hope to recall precisely the statements made by the Member, which can be refuted on the basis of the data in my hand. Congressman said that the purchasing power of wages is now lower, let's say, compared to German wages, than it was a few years ago. He had a phrase that years ago the Hungarian wage was worth a third of the German wage, and now it is worth a quarter. I may not quote you precisely, Mr President, but the message was that we would not approach Western European countries in terms of wage levels, but rather break down. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: We are constantly moving away from European wages.]] [[15.30]] Please, I have in my hand the Eurostat data series, where, from a purchasing power point of view, wages are rightly seen, as Mr President said, not only as regards wages, but also as regards their purchasing value. In 2015, the last Eurostat data. By 2016-17, the Ministry's estimates are still available for 2016 on the basis of the facts. Both for Germany and Austria and for the United Kingdom and for the Czech Republic and Slovakia, I repeat, the value of the actions in the purchasing power parities has increased. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: How much?]] How much? By 3-4 percentage points compared to Germany, Austria, and by about 10 percentage points compared to the British. Different dates can be compared, but I am happy to pass the table on to the representative, and you can be sure that the fact that we see real wage catch-up not only in domestic terms, but also in European terms, is the fact that real wages have been caught up in recent years. I therefore think that from this starting point, from these figures, it is worth evaluating the government's economic policy, whether the steps that the government or Parliament has taken have been correct or not, and from this point of view, I think it is worth evaluating the proposal for a budget law for next year. What Congressman has said is equal pay for equal work, I think it is an extremely dangerous claim. Indeed, if the Member looks at the economic context, this means that he wants the same tax system in all Member States. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true!]] If we think about it, this means that we should give up a sovereignty that, I think, is the basis for economic policy. Congressman proposes the same wages [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: This is a principle.]] as a basic principle, it proposes equal wages in different countries. These same wages must be financed from something, from the performance of the economy, from the tax system. Are we talking about raising taxes? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Of what, anyway? Are you suggesting that the deficit increase? So let's be clear about what we're talking about. My statement is that this claim would have very serious disadvantages, competitive disadvantages, a significant part of our sovereignty would be renounced. I think that the figures of recent years prove that it is not appropriate to give up the sovereignty of our economic policy, and if we do so in the future, then we can hope for the results that we have seen in recent years. The Member had some findings that I absolutely agree with, and where I see the Member banging open doors. He said that it doesn't matter what we use EU funds for, we buy Chinese stone from it, or we may support more productive investments. We have often said that we want to spend 60% of the EU's 2014-20 resources on direct economic development, which is precisely to provide support to companies that are able to generate higher emissions in the longer term as a result of grants, to employ more people in the longer term, or to achieve higher performance and capacity with the same level of employment as the company's production, production value, output and thus its contribution to GDP, as if possible, with one machine acquisition and one efficiency improvement. This could, of course, be accompanied by higher income and higher standard of living. So when the Member says that we should look at EU funds as a long-term investment and use them in this way, then, again, he is banging open gates, the draft budget law for next year was also prepared in this spirit. I also agree with Mr President's statement or proposal that it is worth thinking about a reduction in contributions, as this could cover wage increases, wage increases that could result in further catching up on real wages in the European context. This is what the agreement was made by the government in November 2016 with the bodies of workers and employers. Everyone should be reminded that this year there has been a 5 percentage point reduction in social contributions or employer contributions. This is followed by a reduction of 2 percentage points under the draft budget law next year. It's a six-year deal. So our aim is to ensure that, if the performance of the economy permits, this reduction of the employer's burden is achieved and coupled with a wage increase. Finally, Mr Gábor Bányai is not here, but allow me to say that in my opinion he has made an objective list of the investments that will be made in his constituency. Some of these are purely domestic-funded, and the other part is part-financed by the European Union, as all projects supported by EU funds should be covered by a national own contribution. We also say that in the European Community, both Hungary and many other Member States are legally entitled to these funds, which the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian society, is legally receiving, and this is a significant part of our membership of the European Union. It is undoubtedly a fact that sometimes it seems automatic to use these resources, but we do see Member States and we also see practices in Hungary when the available resources have not been used. So I think that, whether it is purely domestic or partly European Union funds, that if we can use these resources intelligently, by investing in the future, and if the institutional system is able to use these resources effectively and as soon as possible, then they should indeed be welcomed, and these resources can have a longer-term impact. That is the spirit of next year's budget law. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-98	We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to express my appreciation to Mr Secretary of State for the fact that he has been defending this budget for two days. But in the spirit of fairness, I would ask that if you criticize something, such as Jobbik's Wage Union initiative, you have excellent staff working under your hands, you have nothing but to do but to read the text and content of this initiative. If you read it, you would know that, not only is it not about transferring tax licenses, but it is about changing the whole story along much deeper principles of European cohesion policy and the flow of money. Mr State Secretary, what you said doesn't make any sense because if certain rates were reduced to zero percent and no taxes were to be paid in Hungary, say, to a vegetable farmer, his wages couldn't reach Dutch vegetable wages in a five-year perspective. That's not what anyone was talking about. We have talked about establishing principles that, when the free movement of capital has been achieved, the free movement of labour seems to have been achieved or goods has been achieved, that it does not bother you that a disgustingly spectacular gap can be shown in terms of wages. Let's take a look at one of your beneficiary companies, the Mercedes. Mercedes spends 15 percent of its income on human resources in the foreign zone, typically on wages, but also education. Secretary of State, 15 percent, I'll say it again. The same is true in Hungary, so the factor for human resources is 2 percent. It's an amazing, screaming chasm. Or, if you look at the average salary, this company gives its employees a salary of HUF 700 thousand net; in Hungary it is barely worth 240 thousand. And, Mr State Secretary, in Hungary, this company shows 2 percent profit, and the results of top multi-enterprises before and after tax are nearly the same in Hungary. There is a robbing mechanism in place, Mr Secretary of State, where Western Europe is pumping resources out of our region. It's a betrayal to stop this! If there's a good initiative, at least think about it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Whether or not you will join this, or if you do so, you will be at the forefront, because we will still support you in this. But don't you dare reject such a responsible approach without reading, because in the last 10 years we have not been able to start something more serious from Eastern Central Europe! Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2017-05-18-100	Thank you very much. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Sándor Hadházy is next, for a two-minute speech.
u2017-05-18-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to add a few points to the speech by my fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki. One is that if someone doesn't tell the truth and does it a lot, they eventually become uncredited. If someone's making a statement, they'd have to prove it in a reasonable way. [[15.40]] You have often accused Fidesz of corruption with your peers. If you say that a hundred times, you'll still be discredited until you can prove it and prove it, so I would respectfully suggest that you consider what you're saying. The other question I would like to mention is that you have accused one of the speakers of Fidesz of coming up here with local affairs and describing what improvements he has made or would like to make. My fellow Member, the fact is that there are two types of Members, of course, legally only one, but there are two types of Members in this House, one of which is the individual Member, whose job is, among other things, to keep in touch with the mayors, civil society organisations, businesses, people and try to make their daily lives easier, to help with improvements that they make. It is clear that these must be ranked, which is more important, which is less important, but this work must be carried out by each Member with individual mandates, so he cannot be accused of whatever sense he makes here in this House. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So I would think you would accept this practice. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-18-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Benő Banai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-05-18-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I promise to be brief, because I do not want to take the emphasis on the debate on next year's budget bill, but I think that the proposal that is about equal work and equal pay is very dangerous. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is not what the proposal is about.]] In addition to what I have said, Mr... Congressman, it is about the fact that there is a free flow of labour and capital within the European Union, equal wages should also be guaranteed, if I remember correctly, that is what they said. I would ask whether you believe there are differences in productivity between EU countries, whether there are differences in employment, whether there are differences in the quality of public services. Then let's talk about this, see how the education system is financed in the UK, let's say. We are talking here about the fact that healthcare in Hungary and education are essentially public-funded. I'm reporting that there are totally different proportions. Mr President, if we put these in favour of the principles, I think that the proposal that they have formulated may lead to a very significant economic disadvantage beyond abandoning our sovereignty, Mr President. If we bear in mind that the real wage catch-up that has been achieved in recent years with regard to wages in Hungary and wages in Europe should continue, then I think that this principle should not be adopted. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-18-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will begin the next round of speeches. I am speaking from the Fidesz Group to Mr Font Sándor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-18-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On agriculture and rural development, which I would like to mention here at the level of the budget, I would like to prevent by saying that, since nearly seven years ago in 2010, since the government classified agriculture as a nation strategy sector, it has in all respects not been included in the disputed sectoral classifications of the public discourse, as it has not been said that in some years there has been no difficulty in some areas - such as this year's hail in the area of Heves a few days ago or even winter frosts - but, overall, as the illness of Hungarian agriculture, it has not been heard. That's understandable, because it's not. There is no question that the task which the current government is calling for is to provide agriculture, to maintain the countryside, to increase its competitiveness, to strengthen its ability to generate income, this seems to be justified in some way and, as I have said, there is no mass criticism on the part of the people living in agriculture or on the part of politics. Of course, this does not mean that we are not aware of an unpleasant situation such as when the European Union freed up the milk quota and the dairy farmers were forced to sell milk at a cost price for nearly a year, but it has taken immediate intervention measures against both the European Union and Hungary's own budgetary framework, and I do not claim that it is offering milk-producing farmers a bright, high profit at the moment, but this issue has also shifted towards the island of tranquility. Since agriculture is a very diverse area, allow me to narrow my thoughts down to the circle that affects many people. Right in front of me, my right-wing fellow Member said that we are here from one pocket to another, and we are proud of this, and that we are pumping EU funds, or that we are handing them out as if they were our own. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's not what I said.]] I would therefore only like to analyse the budgetary framework for national agricultural subsidies with a few sentences. This is the budget that comes exclusively from domestic sources. I am only confirming this so that my better fellow Members know that there is such a thing in the agriculture and rural development chapter. Therefore, only, knowing the difficult situation of these sectors and industry players, we are therefore implementing various objectives and grants from the Union's allocated domestic resources. This, by the way, is the long-known, more jobs in agriculture! We do it according to his motto, as we use statistical data to show what the increase in the number of agricultural workers has been like in recent years. And we still claim that there is a very significant potential in it, of course, for this production itself and what is above it is true, it is no longer directly accounted for in the agricultural nomenclature, but the manufacturing industry, which in our view offers a very serious opportunity to illustrate Hungary's agricultural economic nature, has additional reserves in it. And to illustrate this calm state and strength of agriculture, with the exception of perhaps two years, with the exception of two years since 2010, it has been a very difficult year for agriculture due to weather and environmental impacts, with the exception of these two years, it has all been one of the most stable participants in the GDP growth of that year. And precisely, that sometimes uncertain emissions of agriculture can be stabilized due to weather conditions - and then allow me to mention the ice damage control programme specifically - in Hungarian, we want to stabilize agricultural emissions clearly so that they are a stable member of the current domestic growth. The so-called transitional national grants amount to HUF 26 billion in direct support to areas such as cattle farmers, the milk, sheep, goats and a very special and narrow sector, tobacco producers. These are usually subsidies which the EU does not or only partially support, and due to domestic circumstances and conditions of competition, these farmers would be in a very difficult or potentially destructive situation without domestic aid. Therefore, the other area is highlighted, to which we pay great attention, the poultry and pig sectors. These two sectors are well known not to receive any support under the current EU rules, and therefore, under the authorised EU-approved procedure, animal welfare aid for the poultry sector is available for HUF 12 billion in the 2018 budget, accompanied by a special aid for breeding poultry of HUF 1.2 billion. I would like to note that if the Commission of the Union decides on a crisis aid to reduce the impact of the influenza in poultry, domestic co-financing sources are also available there. I mentioned this only because from September to October 2016, avian influenza virus, which has never been seen, has been swept through not only Hungary, but also because of our special concern, because the significant amount of birds and wild birds that are passing through the Central European region is passing through Hungary, and therefore we have been particularly affected by this huge weight of poultry mortality and forced slaughter caused by the virus, and then by the destruction of animal corpses. [[15.50]] So we are ready to place the part of the co-financing, the domestic resource, at the side of any resource freed up as a result of negotiations with the EU. As I said, in addition to poultry, it is the pig sector that cannot receive any direct aid. Not only the Hungarian, I stress this, but they cannot receive support for this animal species in any European Union country. Here, the 2018 budget provides a maximum amount of HUF 9.1 billion, which is authorised by the EU from domestic sources. And another special framework is the provision of breeding material, for which the budget for the 18th year is planning a HUF 8.6 billion envelope. As I have already mentioned in the case of avian influenza, Hungary's animal health is doing its work at an extremely serious level and is also recognised at international level. This is how he did it, and thank you here for your sacrifice in this avian influenza last fall and this spring, for both the official and the private practice veterinarians, who have done incredible, almost day-to-night work to dampen, prevent the spread of the virus, and to allow the propagating animals to be replanted as quickly as possible. This process is still going on, and we are waiting for about September to reach last year's emissions level again, and by then we will be able to rebuild the poultry sector. For animal health, there is therefore also a significant HUF 10.5 billion estimate for the 18th, and, as I mentioned, unfortunately, there is HUF 3.6 billion available for the safe removal and destruction of an animal body in avian influenza. It is not a large sum, but let me mention that it is also financed from the national agricultural budget, for example, by the field guard service, which is a special type of activity, known to everyone involved in this sector, the promotion of interest rate and guarantee rates for various agricultural credit schemes and the area of de minimis de minimis aid. In 2018, we will continue our strategy for the growth of pig populations, one of the exciting areas. It hasn't been as successful as we've been expecting, but let me add, it wasn't just up to us. Let me mention a Russian embargo, which was a serious loss to Hungarian exporters. We continue to see the potential in the operation and development of the strategy. HUF 1.1 billion is only the strategic envelope. For animal husbandry tasks, the budget provides HUF 1.3 billion. Here we want to inspire the domestic breeding organisations, livestock associations and the competitiveness of those who are active in international relations and international networks, and can give themselves and, of course, this sector inspirational tasks based on their knowledge. Here I would like to turn to the system of national agricultural compensation, which, after entering the 2010 government, was introduced mainly on the basis of the Spanish and Italian model, in which practically all farmers were obliged to enter, and on an area-by-area basis, depending on whether they have an area of arable land or fruit and grape production, they must pay a basic premium for hectares. This constitutes a very large amount of compensation fund. The state contributes to this fund at budgetary level, for example by HUF 4.3 billion in the budget for the year 18, and compensation is made from this fund when a damage event occurs; I stress: compensation. This is, in effect, half of the loss in the year of damage compared to the average production of the last five years, and therefore compensation. If farmers demand compensation for the other half, we strongly recommend that they enter into contracts with market profit insurers. Here, the contract fee can also be used for tendering aid. Thus, the contract with profit insurance companies becomes relatively cheap, and therefore practically the entire damage event can be covered by insurance. Unfortunately, it seems that this year, too, will require this national compensation fund, because, as I have already mentioned, exceptional winter frosts, minus 22-24 degrees Celsius frosts, have decimated the areas of grapes and fruit, and this year, the hail of several locations in the cell system has unfortunately caused incredible damage. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] Referring to the hail, and I have already referred to it in some part of my mind: it has started and is expected to happen within two years, but the more optimistic indication is that within a year, the entire country will be covered by an anti- hail system. This is an event that we may not stress enough. We don't see that in any other country. It should be assumed that the territory of Hungary is divided on the basis of a grid-structured net, and that in each grid point a technical equipment is set up to vaporize a good stadium, which means that there is no similar system, either staff or mobile remotely controlled, if the National Meteorological Service is expected to prognosticate hail in that area in a short period of time, such systems will operate in Hungary, in an island system, which means that there is no similar system east and west, nor south or northerly, and therefore, in the case of a storm with very strong lateral drift, this vaporization system will not be sufficiently effective, because it may not be neutralizing the hail clouds above it, but, as a result of drift, exerting its neutralising effect elsewhere, and thus, unfortunately, will not protect or mitigate the area to be protected. We have a great hope in this regard. The National Chamber of Agriculture has applied for an EU application. We will be able to operate this through co-financing, the national agricultural compensation scheme. This means that farmers do not have to pay a special contribution to the future system according to our current plans. It's very special, but it's very nice for us, especially because I was one of the initiators of this program, the farm development program, back in 2009. The 2010 Orbán government was expected to be implemented. We've done it. It is growing every year, with HUF 1.2 billion available in 2018 to help people living in farms. But this is a wide-ranging aid, because it is possible to apply not only for infrastructure - water, electricity, road - but also for food processing and economic activity. Very popular, very large number of candidates, and we see very good results based on the experience of the last six years. And let me mention, towards the end of my thoughts, two programmes that are co-financed by the EU, but Hungary is a big concern - thank God, we have raw materials - the, Drink milk! The programme, which will be increased by HUF 100 million in 2018 and next year, will be extended by HUF 4.3 billion. I'm not detailing the health and vital effects of this program. It's very popular. The same co-programme is the school fruit scheme, in which we provide fresh fruit for students up to 1-6, the system provides fresh fruit. We will increase this program by more than HUF 500 million in 2018, making it HUF 2.2 billion. With 2157 schools currently participating in this program, we were able to register 551 544 students from schools who were involved in this program. That's a very nice song. I think these are the two programmes in which I know that there has never been a debate with our fellow opposition Members, because they have also encouraged the launch of this programme every time. Let me mention this, but this does not come directly from Hungarian sources - I say this to my better fellow Members - but it is a very significant resource and a predictable source in the day-to-day operation of farmers, namely the HUF 425 billion, which is the EU's so-called direct payments. This is the so-called animal and area payment, the most well-known resource for farmers. To sum up and evaluate: the 425 billion, thank God, is possible because of the large agricultural area in Hungary, as we can farm on nearly 5 million hectares. [[16.00]] This is accompanied by a HUF 425 billion source. And what we have just said is how much this national resource is: this national envelope, national grants, agri-targets and co-financing with the European Union is on the way. Overall, the amounts supported exclusively from domestic sources amount to HUF 108 billion. To show that in 2010, this was HUF 52 billion, so we doubled the amount of initial domestic funds in the next year's budget, and compared to last year's 2017 - of course this year, but I have to say last year's funding - there is HUF 106 billion in this budget, so next year's national funds for agriculture are about HUF 2 to 2.5 billion higher. I can safely say, as I have said, that there is no general global problem in agriculture. Some individual sectors are always faced with market challenges, avian influenza, unfortunately a Russian embargo, which moves them, embarrass entrepreneurs and farmers, and they have to solve new challenges. However, I can also say of the budget for agriculture that, just as it is true for our entire budget, the budget for 2018 is a budget for those who live in work. Agriculture is the area where farmers literally live from tangible work. We want to make sure that all farmers can move forward here as well. I feel that the budget we are predicting here for 2018 will give this opportunity to all my fellow farmers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is 16:00 and 2 minutes, and I would like to announce that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, it was possible to submit an amendment by 16:00 today. So this opportunity is exhausted. Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, will now take the floor from the MSZP Group. Mr. Vice President, please. You have the floor.
u2017-05-18-107	Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Congressman Lords! 'Cause I can't talk to congressional women because they're not in the room. [[Dr. Staudt on Gábor's signal:]] I apologize to the notary separately. A budget can be examined for each area of expertise, whether geographical units, a city, the development and development of a landscape unit, and can be examined from another direction. I would like to choose this, as it happens, if it reveals the character that the government recognizes and confesses in its own policy. After all, he has made his own decision to establish financial foundations for what he preaches in everyday life, to name priorities and less advanced areas, to talk about them on hundreds of pages in the language of numbers; I have listened to Mr. State Secretary for the last day and a half, as he has responded to opposition and pro-government speakers' opinions. [[Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced by István Szávay in the notary seat.]] Well, what I would like to say in the approach is that it is not simply possible to look at a budget as what it contains, but what is the difference of perspective between the current government and, for example, the current opposition, my group's world vision. That is why this is a specific criticism and approach, because I would not only like to talk about what you are doing in the budget and how you are doing, but I would also like to say my conviction, and I would already like to underline that neither you are bound to agree with me, nor I will agree with you, because in a parliamentary democracy there are different parties and views that conflict with opinions. It is, let's say, a prerequisite for having an opinion. If there are such things, there is a distinction between world views. I would therefore like to demonstrate how I see the interests of our country through an important segment of the budget, and this is higher education, the world of science, everything that the literature calls world of learning, an educated world. Understandably, because it is a budget, let us stick to the figures, and although obviously, as you can say, I can say billions and hundreds of millions or millions, but it is more appropriate, for the sake of accurate understanding, to talk about proportions: how they are in proportion to the past years, how they are in proportion to an earlier period, and how they are in proportion to the possibilities. The state budget support of Hungarian higher education in the rate of GDP in the 2018 proposal submitted by you is 0.7 per cent of GDP. I am talking, therefore, about the fact that here, not in conjunction with its own revenue, but with the state aid granted by the central budget on a GDP-rate basis. This was 0.1 per cent higher in the last year, lower in 2016, 0.6 per cent in 2016 and 0.8 per cent in 2010. I propose that the debate, because I would like to invite you to do so, should not continue at a tenth of a percent. Let us not continue that, in this order of magnitude, I am debating the approach where you say, obviously, that economic growth, as a result of your economic policy, can deliver such and such results, either this year or the following year, according to your plans. Compared to this, I say that you have a world of knowledge, higher education, science, culture, not only is it not a priority area, but something so strange, suspicious, in which if you put money, you don't get results, you have constant problems with it, you can't handle it. In no way do I think that this would be treated as a priority in the traditional sense, with a technical term. Fifty priorities do not exist in a budget. If there are fifty kinds of priorities in a budget, that sky has no character in a world, it's more of a blabbermouth. I fully acknowledge that a budget can have three priority areas up to four, then it can provide the character with which a government can achieve its objectives. The fact that the world of knowledge, including higher education, is not one of these, I would like to raise this as a very serious criticism to you. I think that this is not in the best interests of our country. I would like to support this by saying that, while you have been using the term "work-based society" for years, you are unwilling to see it, but if you see it, you are not willing to admit in your policy that real work, real quality work, exists only if it is based on learned and useful knowledge. It's not just some kind of local charity, it's not an opportunity, it's a knowledge-based job. A job that is otherwise high-quality, long-term able to provide income, existentiality, the possibility of ascension, and is not knowledge-based, such as XXI. Not in the first century. Therefore, I must express my strong incomprehension as to how you can call your policy as a whole a policy of a work-based society, how you can call your budget with the expressives you have heard several times in recent days, when I do not see your intellectual, knowledge-based base in any way. [[16.10]] I therefore claim and criticise - in this I propose the debate with you - that, compared to the opportunity you talk about a lot about - see economic growth - you do not put the sphere that is already in the interests of our country in the medium term. Let me not go into the gift of our country; if you are able to prove that there is a large, coherent oil field under the Great Plain or that Mátra is a single block of gold, then I am willing to modify my argument, but as long as you can represent it with little result, I suggest that we put energy and money into the talent, diligence and training of Hungarians in human resources. Therefore, let us discuss the question of why higher education, the world of science, is not a priority for you, compared to the economic opportunity that you have highlighted. Why is it that the world of our universities and colleges is more characterized by cautious retention than by intellectual investment? I would particularly like to find an explanation - I have not heard about this in the last two days in the debate - why the budget of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is reduced by 13 percent, why operational expenditure is reduced by 3 percent in the case of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I don't see it clearly at all, but as a opposition, let me assume that, in the past year and a half, they have become more and more powerful, not politically, but specifically professional, but the criticisms of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I can't call it the development of Hungarian public education, but the changes in Hungarian public education that you have been doing since your 2011 Horror Act, or, for example, the most recent very characteristic resolution on the Central European University can play a role in this. How is it that all the central government budget support for culture in proportion to GDP has grown from 0.3 to 0.5 per cent since 2010, but if we take down so-called large investments, which they are willing to compare with culture at all, then we see that this is stagnating at 0.3 per cent? Finally, I would like to raise a question to which Mr Secretary of State responded in a previous speech because it opens a very exciting debate. This was about comparing, for example, the funding model of the higher education institutions of the Anglo-Saxon world with the Hungarian, the advantages and disadvantages. I do not think that the Anglo-Saxons would take over the Hungarian model, and I suggest that we do not take the Anglo-Saxon model either, but it is very worthwhile to compare it on the basis of advantages and disadvantages. Firstly, I would like to link this idea to whether there is a budgetary impact on professional credibility. I say to you that there is that an environment, an intellectual environment, an investment environment can be designed or planned not simply by numbers, appropriations, but by the kind of general environment, the perception that surrounds a government, its policy. I have to say that, in this regard, the perception has not been as deep in the Hungarian government since 1989 as it has been in yours. In a budget, it may be a traditional foreign aspect that I mention, but if you read the world's defining scientific journals, Science, Nature, Oxford University Press, not to talk about daily press, the last half year, the activity I see on posters, you don't have to read Parliamentary minutes by profession, say, 1951-52, but if I modernize the names there and the language at that time, it will simply go to a current pro-government speech. I have to say to you that in this regard, the kind of environment you have created and that I am not now drawing from the Anglo-Saxon world, which may be called alien thinking, but let's say, the Rector of the Vilnius University, founded by István Báthory, which he wrote last, and what he represents before the world's science, as opposed to the higher education policy, which happens to be represented in your budget, at least responsible government politicians need to think deeply about the fact that while our country is 93 030 square kilometres away, there is also a world that judges, which thinks, which offers investment. And the university world consists not only of scientists sitting alone in rooms filled with their own books and computers, but also of people who determine economic production and development. The financing model that benefits in such an environment, such as in the world of private universities, is an important basis for funding higher education, can be obtained from the non-state sphere, as Mr. State Secretary has indicated, by very significant investments, sums, support or effective maintenance, because the state is doing one thing, guaranteeing that it can work. In addition, it has been doing this for 200-250 years and 600 years in Europe. The reason why the private sector gives money to higher education is because, by the way, it could be certain that the horror that is called a landlord, or perhaps an inadequate bishop, or a government does not interfere with how he works. Because if you interfere, the private sector won't give you money for this in the absence of stability. To give you a specific example, and since you're having an international debate with a university registered in America, I'm bringing up another private university, Georgetown University, which is the traditional citadel of American diplomatic education in the United States. Historical geography is actually taught by a dear acquaintance and former colleague, the criterion in the exam is that in Europe, in the case of cities with 100,000 inhabitants and above, in the case of a city with one million inhabitants worldwide, it is necessary to define and determine where that city is in a range of 50 kilometers around the world. Then, if you don't know, you won't be a diplomat. I am only saying this because this institution has the right to undertake and not only teaches, but, for example, one of the largest investors in construction companies in the state and states. Therefore, higher education has freedom when it has a financial basis. In our model of funding, if this ratio is the ratio of state, central budget commissioner, honourable State Secretary, I would like to say that the amount of funding provided by the central budget to Hungarian state higher education institutions last year and next year is enough to be a spiritual vegetation there. [[16.20]] And the chancellor should have something to check for, to provide a job opportunity for his ever-blooming apparatus, but therefore we have no chance of maintaining the quality of Hungarian higher education, let alone increasing it. In other respects, budgetary instruments and non-budgetary instruments do not ensure the stability needed for a normal spiritual work. Therefore, although not included in the budget, as I am talking about higher education, I would like to express and demand that the latest amendment to the Higher Education Act, the law named lex CEU, be withdrawn. Overall, I say that your government budget character is not the character of a future visionary, present and near future developing Hungary. They do not recognise the long-term potential of education, including higher education, but they have actually einstantised it at budgetary level. This is a disadvantage, it is not good for our country, and I have to say that it outlines a character of which you have talked a lot about in the last two days, but that it is not a future-oriented budget, not a budget capable of providing the next generation with the potential for existential and intellectual progress compared to the current situation, I say and confirm that. I ask you to argue and argue, because in the language of numbers and in the concept behind the budget figures, I see my opinion as well as sound and strong, which is a serious criticism for you. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] Thank you very much.
u2017-05-18-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő requests the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-18-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, If I may, I'd like to begin with one of your quotes. If I wrote it right, you said that professional credibility could have a budgetary impact. I think we know what professional credibility means when we draw up economic policies and annual budgets. It is precisely economic policy, precisely budgetary policy, that shows whether the economic policy and budget of a given government are credible or not. I do not want to play puns here, but credibility also shows that a particular economic policy, a specific budget policy, shows the sustainability of whether financial investors lend or not. We know that there was a time when market investors did not lend to the Hungarian State because they considered that its economic policy was not credible and sustainable. It's different now. Let's check the numbers. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Let's check the numbers. I see that it is true that the current money market environment is more favourable than it was a few years ago. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] But the fact that today it is much more credible, if you like, that the financing of the Hungarian state is literally much cheaper, in addition to the international environment, the substantive measures of the Hungarian government and the Hungarian central bank played a role. My statement is that Hungary is more credible to money market and institutional investors today than it was before. This credibility, I trust, is also surrounded by the draft budget law for 2018, the credibility that is reflected not only in the judgement of money market investors, but also in the judgment of real economic investors. I repeat: the characterization of budget 18, economic policy, the curve of this fiscal policy, its key priorities remain unchanged in 2018 as in previous years. I absolutely agree with Mr Vice-President that every economic policy has a curve and that the budget has priorities. This in the draft budget law before us means that the budget focuses on work, family and security. That's why we call it the work budget. Turning to the idea that the Vice-President has said that higher education and science are being dealt with by a country, the government, let me approach higher education from the point of view of work. I think that graduation should not be or should not be required if it is only for l,, art pour l, art graduation. The essence of graduation and higher education education is that young or older workers with higher education and degrees benefit from that knowledge [[Dr. István Hiller: That's right!]] What he's got. The structure of higher education is therefore a fundamental question. The fundamental question is that the structure that, in my opinion, described Hungarian higher education in the region of 2010-11 was in line with the need for those who left higher education to have the knowledge that the labour market rewards. My statement is that that's not what the data showed. In my opinion, when the Hungarian government changed the structure of higher education by defining state-funded places, it did so precisely in order to enable newly graduates to use their diplomas in a meaningful and profitable way. I would add that you can use it in a way that allows you to work in a job that your degree gives you the opportunity to do. So this has been, I think, a structural change in recent years that may have changed the structure of higher education in a meaningful way from the point of view of work. In terms of amounts, there are undoubtedly years in which nominal increases in public support for higher education were lower than the rate of growth in the economy. This should also be assessed from a positive perspective. It should also be noted that the proposal for a budget law before us includes the third stage of wage increases for higher education workers and researchers, and an additional 5 percentage points increase. Higher education expenditure will also increase with fewer resources being paid for higher education workers, employers, universities and colleges for social contribution tax. If I may, Mr Vice-President, I would like to answer your question about the Academy of Sciences immediately. There are expenditure items in the chapter of the Academy of Sciences that are truly lower only because the same work, the same salary or, where applicable, the 5 percentage points higher wage can be paid with less employer expenditure overall, as employers' social contribution tax is reduced to a greater extent than the gross wage increases. [[Dr. István Hiller: Is that the only reason?]] This is the sole reason for the decline in one or two areas you have seen. If we clear the budget of the Academy of Sciences from this item, the Academy of Sciences has more resources in 2018 than in 2017. I hope that if the Vice-President asks this question from the leaders of the Academy of Sciences who are independent of the government, the leaders concerned will confirm this. In addition, of course, to the fact that the wage increase I have mentioned also applies to scientific workers, I think it is worth comparing next year's budget proposal not only with 2017 in the field of science, but also with the previous years. We see that there is a Legendary programme that aims precisely at young scientists who have gained experience abroad coming home and using their knowledge for the Hungarian economy. There is also a specific appropriation for support for young researchers, but also for infrastructure development. I said three areas that were not included in the budget of the Academy of Sciences before 2010. If we look at higher education from the economic perspective, from the economic perspective, at scientific activity, we should also say that, in addition to the often cited domestic sources, the structure of EU funds has been modified by the government by quadrupling the proportion of R &amp; D and innovation resources compared to the period 2007-13. [[16.30]] These resources are included in the operational programme GINOP. The priority of this area is also shown by the fact that innovation appears on behalf of the operational programme and, as I mentioned, the R &amp; D and innovation resources are significantly expanding. I therefore hope that, with the renewal of higher education and the expansion of R &amp; D resources, workers with a working degree with a higher education degree will be available to the Hungarian economy, who will ensure that the economic growth we have seen in recent years and what is substantially above the average of the European Union will continue in the coming years, and, of course, this is important not only at a macroeconomic level, or perhaps primarily not at a macroeconomic level, but also important for the welfare of the individual. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Sándor Hadházy is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-18-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The budget shall rightly bear the title of the budget of the workers. In 2010, when the civilian government was established, we had to face a number of very serious issues. In fact, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy. We tend to forget that. But one catastrophic situation has just taken place in unemployment. People were out of work for a hundred thousand numbers. Over the last seven years, over 700,000 new jobs have been created. You can underestimate that, you can criticize that, you can doubt that, but these are facts. Not only is this result important in economic terms, but let us look at the question of how society, on the one hand, has lived in this state and how the individual has lived in this situation. It is clear that many people did not live on unemployment benefits, but were forced to do so because they did not find a decent job to try to earn income black, either as a casual job or regularly but not in a visible way, but in the black economy. This greatly distorted the individual's situation, and it can be said - this situation has been studied by many people - that the individual felt very badly in this situation, and in fact, if we look at this in the long term, it was wrong because he fell out of the care that would make a great difference in old age. After all, the pension will be determined on the basis of the time spent at work, the amount of pensions will be calculated on the basis of the income received from work and the social contributions paid, and then they will be amazed, or perhaps not surprised, but bitterly experienced, that they have been deceived. Because they couldn't work properly, legally, even though they wanted to - it's typical of the crowd, they wanted to - but they fell out of this world of work. And their lives changed, their circle of friends changed, their role in the family changed. Technically, physically, mentally, a lot of people have been crippled by their masses in this situation. This was not only the country's economic problem, but it was also a social and very deep sociological issue. This is why, on the one hand, the government rightly put this in the focus, on the other hand, in order to clean up the economy, or perhaps the most important issue, that people should be brought back to the world of work, that they should be given the honour, respect for work, and that everyone should be given the opportunity to recapture this way of life and to live a normal life again. Over 700,000 people, and most of these 700,000 people were not part of the community service program. A lot of people have been involved, and I trust that they will be temporarily involved, and we will be able to get them out of this, and they will be brought back to the productive world, to the productive sphere, and they will not be able to participate as public workers, but as professionals and full workers. I think that this process needs to go on, because we still have a lot of work to do. But at the same time, there is a new problem, or not a problem, but a new question or a new challenge, because the main problem now is not just or perhaps not that there is very high unemployment, but the main problem is that workers in the world of work are not getting enough wages. On this issue, we agree with many of the opposition's players, but perhaps we see the solution in a different way. If we learn about this problem and take it seriously, we will find meaningful answers to that. Let us examine how domestic companies and businesses working in Hungary, working in Hungary, work and what they think of the current situation. If we move between people and entrepreneurs and ask them, they will say and say that the taxes and contributions to the work are to a large extent, I am not saying that this is the sole reason, but they will make a major contribution to either working on a minimum wage or working on people half-black and half-visible, but they will in no way be able to pay the wages that would otherwise be needed for a normal life. The government has conducted this investigation and has found that there is indeed work to be done on this issue, and it is worth considering whether taxes and contributions on work can be reduced. I note that these issues have been raised at the faction meetings, especially in the multi-day group meetings, and the government has taken substantial action on these points. This can also be done in the current budget and in the underlying laws associated with it. Dear Parliament, I believe that one of the keys to economic expansion is to create a labour market situation that makes people interested in taking part in the world of work, making businesses interested in providing adequate wages and making the government interested in developing and pursuing appropriate tax policies and support policies. I believe that this budget makes a major contribution to ensuring that this cooperation, this environment, is developed as soon as possible, and I would like to thank the government for being an appropriate partner in this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-18-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. I am speaking to Mr Staudt Gábor of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-18-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is always a problem in the budgetary debate to bring up large-scale ideas affecting the entire budget, or to point out a point that is positive or negative, where appropriate, and can be drawn to it. Obviously, I am trying to do both, but I would rather focus on certain points, because here in the long debate, the great conceptual issues are clearly explained by all my fellow Members, even from our group, earlier. [[16.40]] What I would like to draw your attention to, which is at the very end of the budget - I am talking about a table in the printed version, page 1368, a 50-year demographic forecast, which was attached to the budget as Annex 2 - although it was installed towards the end of the budget, as I said, it is very painful to read such numbers. I think that when we look at a budget and this is true of the current budget of the governments, the main aspect must be how much the budget promotes the survival and growth of Hungary, the Hungarian nation. Unfortunately, it must be said that the budgets of the last nearly 30 years have led to a downward trend in the demographic situation in Hungary. And although it can be added that some improvement has actually been seen in the past period, and we would like to see this strengthening and not such 50-year-old tables, because if this is just a minimal reduction in the population loss that we can show, or what appears here as a trend, then in fact only the vision of national death has been extended. I quote to you only the last number of 2060. This table shows a relatively linear downward trend. Thus, according to current trends, by 2060 there will be 7 million 878 thousand Hungarians in the country, and in the years until then there will be a continuous decline of around 50,000 per year. Anyone who cares can look at the exact numbers. And what's even more interesting and thoughtful is that the rate of pensioners is almost 55 percent compared to those of working age. So this means that a worker will be statistically more than one pensioner. Unfortunately, this will make it difficult for pensions to be paid in a sustainable manner. I would like to see similar tables attached in the future - and this is true of the governments at hand - then these figures, these trends, improve. I know that it is difficult to achieve a huge improvement in the first round, but it would also be good to keep seeing that at least the rate of weight loss shows an ever-increasing trend so that we can see progress in a 50-year forecast. After this introduction, I would like to mention some of the points that I have tabled as an amendment, and I think it is important to highlight. If Secretary Völner's here, I'd like to start with that. We have re-submitted an initiative for a compensation fund that would provide victims of crime with an opportunity from above as a closed fund for unsatisfactionable, unsatisfactionable claims, quasi-called a tendering opportunity; it could be submitted for consideration, and these could be submitted to them, but not met. I should also like to say that there is an adoption of a proposal that is already a major step forward and contains an amendment to the implementing law, which basically lowers the state's demand for criminal costs than the need for victims, the need granted by civil or criminal courts. That was a huge step forward, an old demand. I myself have tabled a number of amendments and a separate proposal. This solves one part of the problem, so where the unsubs have seized their assets, it is certainly a solution, but it would be good - in this case I will propose 1 billion forints, but this may be less in the first round - if there were a framework that could be used by those people on the basis of a fair assessment, so this framework would not be open from above, but it would be possible to turn to people who have been affected by such a situation, and virtually the victims cannot recover their claims on the perpetrators. Then, in the Ministry of Defence's budget, we can see that, despite the attempts, 0.6 percent is the current spending on GDP, so 2 percent is still far away. I know that the Minister has made efforts to increase this to a greater extent, and I also know that it has not been less than 1 percent long ago - I'm sure the Secretary of State knows better - but in these cases, we would like to try this, although we know that GDP is also growing. So obviously, when we spend the same amount of GDP as a growing GDP, it means growth, so this is always the opposition and the pro-government approach, but obviously NATO expects us to do 2 percent, and that is what they will collect on us - quote sign - and that's what we will do next year, while we are at the Ministry of Defence's budget, which was an Eligible initiative, is the Defence Sports Federation, which, as I see it, will receive HUF 1.1 billion for the next year's operation. Here, too, if the Secretary of State is able to respond to the detailed plans, what are those plans that have not otherwise been written down, but which can be attributed to plans from the House of the Defence Sports Federation, we would like to hear, but it would be good to have an efficient and youth-enhancing alliance, and not to spend this 1.1 billion forints in a senseless or pointless way, which, by the way, is not so little, and I must say, a good initiative can be put on the ground. We've already heard that from the press, and I was about to submit a written question myself, but it seems that the purchase of the two luxury sailboats has been canceled. Balaton wanted the defence and the procurement of two luxury sailboats in public procurement, by the way, on the grounds that this is important because of civil relations, although the mahogany cover is important then, it would have been difficult to explain in this respect, but it is certainly welcome that this has been withdrawn. So I have to say, the Ministry was able to show restraint here. What is a small edition is also in the Ministry of Defence's budget, and we have learned from the text that the government has committed itself to the Afghan national security forces for another three years, so in 2018-2020 we will provide another 500 thousand US dollars/year support. I also said last year that, on the basis of this, the engagement in Afghanistan would not be a great success if Hungary again had to contribute directly to the maintenance of the security forces for another three years. We could trust that when the current commitment expires, this would have been 2017 exactly, this would not have been extended, but it seems that another half billion forints will go for this purpose for another three years. It would also have been better spent in the interests of Hungarian taxpayers. Then it may also seem small, but if we turn to the head of state protocol's expenditure title, we can see that it is growing from HUF 355 million to HUF 450 million, so the budget for the head of state protocol is increasing by HUF 95 million. We could say that 95 million forints is not that much money, but on the other hand, this is a nearly 27 percent increase. Therefore, I think that Hungarian tax-paying citizens could expect, of course, to argue with me that protocol expenditures, even in the case of the head of state, should increase in a way that follows inflation or in a way that follows GDP growth. This 27 percent, I think, is difficult to explain, although we can see a vague explanation that the tasks of the head of state are also increasing, but that they would grow by 27 percent, i.e. by nearly a third - more than a quarter - there is no detailed justification for this in the text. [[16.50]] Then I submitted some amendments to Budapest and XXII, Annex XI. I would also like to highlight one or two important points here as well. It was an old plan, but it doesn't seem to have been implemented yet, connecting metro lines 2 and 4 and driving metro lines 4 towards the Gazdagrét. I have tabled an amendment to these planning costs so that we are at least aware of the exact amounts. Here again, the project stopped, an overpriced, corruption-related project, which, by the way, mainly affected the MSZP-SZDSZ city administration, and then, obviously, by Fidesz, the failure to account has led us to the fact that we can't even know who is responsible right now. The point is that the project stopped before it achieved real results, the richer or even different agglomeration connections would have been completed by the construction of real P+R parking lots. By the way, I would add to you that moving metro 4 forward instead of the expensive drill shield solution would otherwise have been easier because of the soil conditions, but I am proposing that this be planned at least in an appropriate way. In the same way, let me mention XXII. district, the rehabilitation of downtown Budafok, which is an old desire. Some investments have been made, but the fact that the downtown of Budafok really wins its old light would be practically possible with an investment of HUF 1.5 billion, and the downtown of the southernmost district of Budapest could be restored and modernised in its old glory, of course, according to the modern age. I think because anyway, improvements are usually made by XXII. district and Budafok are avoided, and there is incomparably little development compared to other districts, and I am not just talking about downtown districts, so it would be good to secure this money, and it could be transferred from other places. I should also mention that it is also the XXII. with regard to the district, that with the assistance of the State, the interior of the region of Nagytény-Ohegy should be introduced. Otherwise, this would help the housing problem, whether it would involve the inclusion of the CSOK or the provision of suitable land. In practice neither the municipality nor the landowners who live there - some of them live locally, some of them do not live there, but have land there - can not afford to make the real home area happen accordingly. This could be a dynamically developing part of Budapest, the Nagytétény-óhegy part, which could practically boost the southern Buda region. I proposed 600 million forints to carry out this investment. I will also recommend 50 million forints to the Hope Ray Rehabilitation Institute for heating modernisation. This institution is not only a district issue, it is a capitalized institution, but it is practically welcoming people from all parts of the country who are in need of rehabilitation. I must say that the state should also help in this investment in this case, because it is feared that the capital city will not have money for this, and I think it would also be a good example of solidarity if this amount was made available. Unfortunately, the time is short, and I wanted to highlight these, and, of course, I expect the Secretary-General's answer when it comes to it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to take that chance. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. We will move on to the next round of speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-18-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Dear House, As the Members before me have already said, the budget can be approached in two ways: on the one hand, from a higher macroeconomic level, I would not really like to talk about it, I would rather focus on other minor parts of the budget, on the subject of farm development, forestry and environmental protection. As a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I have been invited to do so, and I feel that I can comment on them best and indirectly. Before I talk about this, I would like to thank the Ministry of National Economy for preparing the 2018 budget for May, and when we discuss this, we can actually accept it in June, in the spring session. If we recall, Hungary's budget planning had a number of hard debates even at the end of December. This also indicates how stable, balanced the budget is and the economy of Hungary. Dear House, The main objective of the farm development programme is to improve the quality of life and the quality of life of people living on the farm and to renew farm farming by strengthening farming conditions. As in 2017, the draft budget for 2018 contains HUF 1.2 billion to finance the farm development programme, which was announced for the eighth time next year and operated from national sources. Over the past six years, the government has spent some HUF 8.1 billion on the programme, and 1691 applicants have received funding during the six-year operation of the programme. It affects a large part of the population of Hungary, as according to the latest census in Hungary, the population living in the outskirts is around 300,000. I would like to note here that I myself have been living on the outskirts for 19 years, and I think that this farm life form is very much needed by the more than 300,000 people who live on the outskirts. I hope that more people will move to farmland as a result of these types of farm development programmes, as well as under the rural development programme. In addition to the traditional lowland farmland, for the first time in 2017, the tender is open to Transdanubia, Szentgal and its surroundings in Bakony, as well as to three southern walks of Heves County. I would like to note that since 2015, the Hungarian farm has been part of the 2012 XXX on Hungaricums. According to the Act, the priority national value which forms part of the Magyar Vértéretár. The farm development program includes two types of constructions: municipal-type constructions for local communities, as well as individual-type applications for residents of the farm. In the framework of the municipal construction, it is possible, for example, to develop staff services or to carry out water quality tests. The aid level for these proposals is 90 or 100 per cent. Support may be required in individual types of applications for the renovation of the farm-based residential and economic building and the improvement of the conditions for farming. The aid intensity in this area is usually 75 per cent, but young farmers can reach 90 per cent. Dear House, It's about forestry. The Government will focus on meeting the objectives of the national forest strategy, preserving and increasing forest resources, and developing methods of forest management in the near nature. It is important to pay attention to the protection, resilience and adaptability of forests, in particular to reducing the adverse effects of climate change. In recent times, the needs of society are increasing for the multi-faceted services of forests, so more emphasis should be placed on developing the economic, defence and public welfare services of forests, as well as on environmental education in order to improve the relationship between man and forest. [[17.00]] It was just this week that we had the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. T/14461 on the amendment of law and other related laws Final vote of the bill No 1 which aims to achieve a more successful alignment of environmental, social and economic sustainability aspects in the field of forestry and forest protection. Dear House, Emphasising from the environment the protection of air purity, as many of my fellow Members have already mentioned before me, all the main systems in the draft budget law for 2018 have additional resources. The additional resources are due to the expansion of the economy and employment, behind which is a stable, growing Hungary, because the budget is balanced, the new wage increases and tax reductions are due to economic expansion, not credit, as in the case of left-wing governments. The competitiveness and innovation potential of our country, the added value of production, have improved further. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] One of the key indicators of government action is how it improves people's quality of life. In addition to increasing wages and incomes, the conditions of a healthy lifestyle and the existence of a healthy environment and the protection of the natural values surrounding our lives are included. There are unprecedented resources available for environmental development aid, since in the previous EU cycle 2300 billion HUF has been allocated to environmental protection and nature protection; in the current cycle, 500 billion more HUF 2800 billion can be used for this purpose. In addition, national resources for nature and environmental protection are also growing year after year. Now, I'd like to get down to air-purity protection in more detail. The Committee on Sustainable Development has dealt with this issue several times. In the 2018 draft budget, the small particulate matter PM10 concentration reduction in the field of air cleanliness protection is HUF 94 million within the Ministry of Agriculture chapter, which represents a nearly double increase compared to 2017. From this, the environmental portfolio will finance studies on small-scale discharges of particulate matter in agriculture, industry and mining, as well as additional research, modelling, regulatory and coordination tasks related to garden waste incineration, home composting, pollution of residential combustion plants, air pollution spreading across the country. During last year's budget debate, the opposition mentioned as a criticism that the government does not count on air cleanliness protection, as the Ministry of Agriculture only spends 54 million forints on reducing PM10 concentration. I would like to stress that the budget lines affecting air purity are largely within the chapters of the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of National Development. Within the NFM chapter of the 2018 Budget Act, a chapter-based estimate of environmental tasks related to road transport is available at HUF 420 million. This is 40 million HUF more than in 2017. This will finance the following tasks: reducing small particulate matter by implementing a cross-sectoral action programme, reviewing the national climate change strategy from a transport environmental point of view, and updating the second NÉSZ and developing the transport environmental tasks of the national adaptation strategy. Research related to the environmental, climate and energy efficiency regulation of transport aims to carry out the research tasks related to the implementation of the Jedlik Ányos Plan, helping to promote the expansion of electromobility in Hungary; in line with the practice of previous years, the portfolio will continue its transport and environmental change programmes, as well as non-motorised and public transport promotion programmes. This includes the European Mobility Week, the car-free day, the ride to work! -, -, bike over seven borders, -, bike friendly settlement and job application. The noise mapping and related measures will amount to HUF 218 million in 2018. This is 168 million HUF more than in 2017. Under the conditions of a healthy lifestyle, the possibility of environmentally friendly transport, such as cycling, is important. More than 1 billion forints are available in the 2018 budget to maintain the good condition of cycling roads and improve their safety. Over the past ten years, some 1,000 km of bicycle paths have been built from EU and domestic sources. In the coming years, too, there will be serious development of a bicycle road network. This will be largely implemented by 2018, for which the 2018 Budget Act proposal contains some HUF 11 billion, which will be added to the EU's budget of HUF 20 million. The government will continue to pay attention to environmental damage and remediation in 2018. Although there is not enough EU funding for public and residential energy applications in 2018, thanks to the expansion of the economy, it will be possible to add 400 million forints from national sources in 2018. These programmes serve the energy saving and energy efficiency of homes and public buildings. The HUF 5.6 billion available for the green economy financing scheme in 2018 serves international and domestic tasks related to green economy development, climate protection and energy efficiency. Reforming the waste management system at national level and making it more effective also contributes to the protection of air cleanliness. Within the NGM chapter of the 2018 Budget Act, the economic greening scheme is available at HUF 5.6 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover the revenue from the sale of allowances under the EU ETS. The chapter appropriation is intended to finance research and development aimed at reducing emissions and adapting to climate change, as well as demonstration projects, the development of energy production from renewable sources, the promotion of the transition to low-emission transport and public transport, in particular the establishment of a basic infrastructure for electric cars, the construction of charging stations, the implementation of projects based on the action plan set out in the Jedlik Plan. In the year 2018, the Jedlik action plan will focus on the purpose of using the appropriation, by building the infrastructure of the electric charging station. Under the Irinyi Plan, HUF 12.5 billion is available in 2018 for the development of domestic industry. This brings 5,5 billion forints to the development of the production of fixed-track vehicles, in which we can talk about the vehicles to be replaced, which are more environmentally friendly than those currently operating. Industry 4.0 focuses on quality industrial development with HUF 1.5 billion. The priority sectors to be developed in the Iriny Plan include green economy development, renewable energy transmission networks, storage capacities, smart grids, smart public lighting, biomass use and the development of the waste industry. In 2018, the government will focus on farm development, sustainable forest management, nature and environmental protection, expanding the available resources from growing national sources. In the field of environmental protection, air cleanliness protection, efforts are made within the three ministries, with significantly higher resources than in the 2017 budget. For this reason, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the 2018 budget, which helps people from work and also helps growth, taking into account the following aspects. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-116	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs. [[17.10]]
u2017-05-18-117	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that many people have said that this is a budget for working people and a budget for working people - I would like to quote it precisely. I don't know if it's just cynicism or just another expression of the social image we've been living with for seven years now, but if you consider the people who live in work, you're excluded from it, who aren't working, pensioners, children, children, teachers, students; I figure about 6 million people. Nevertheless, I also think, and I must say to him that the tax burden is increasing every year for the seventh year now, we are paying more and more taxes, and we see that a significant part of the tax collected is being spent on unnecessary investments that are absolutely unnecessary. Several agendas have emerged here in recent weeks and months, where opposition representatives, in particular, have set a number of examples, including a bicycle road investment that does not lead anywhere, from one settlement to another. We've heard about a 4D movie that was created in a settlement where there are six people living, and I can tell you by morning. Compared to this, the Socialist Group has prepared its amendments and I respectfully report to the House, we will propose a transfer of some HUF 774 billion. What we see is that next year the government is expecting a 4.3 percent increase in GDP, and this year's 3.1 is being improved to 4.1. However, we also see from this draft law submitted that welfare functions are once again reduced on the basis of the table on consolidated functional expenditure of public finances. Compared to 26.59 percent this year, there will be less education for health care, pensions, social benefits, family allowances, unemployment benefits next year. But not only do they come in proportion to GDP, but also in terms of the distribution of public expenditure, while spending on services that constitute the operating functions of the State is increasing. If we look at this so-called public finances' consolidated functional welfare expenditure compared to this year, we need to establish that the amount spent on educational activities and services is falling; social security and welfare services are falling; money for sickness, maternity or temporary disability benefits is reduced; money for retirement benefits is reduced; other social security benefits - which I will mention later - are reduced; unemployment benefits are reduced; other social benefits - this is a very important item, and I will also mention this - are reduced; expenditure on housing matters is lower; funds for culture and religious activity are lower in proportion to GDP than they were this year. So summa summarum, the funds for welfare functions are falling. You may think that our pro-government fellow Members should not give more money because they still eat it or heat it or maybe have their children schooled. Dear fellow Members, Let me quote - there was a conference at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences recently, and one of the sociologists gave an interview to a newspaper, and I would like to quote why I do welfare expenses here. Today, according to the number of children in need at the academic conference in Hungary, there are 430,000 children in need, but according to the Ministry's calculations - here the EMMI is meant - only 208 thousand of them are entitled to a free summer meal. In addition, it was said that at least 330,000 children would lie down hungry, who would not get a proper meal during the summer holiday. The problems of the mother's malnutrition begin during pregnancy. The highest number of children born within the European Union under 2500 grams of body weight is the highest in Hungary. It's amazing. This sociologist's colleague continues: the third from behind in the EU comparison, Bulgaria and Romania alone, are in a worse position in terms of child poverty. That's what we knew, by the way. We have 4-5 percent higher child poverty than the EU average, which means that 30 percent of children are in need. Not only is it worrying that they will remain hungry, but also that many do not develop as they should. The lack of minerals and vitamins makes it difficult for them to fulfill spiritually as their contemporaries do. Behind laziness, unmotivatedness, there is often a lack of food, so children do not have enough energy. 'The professor,' said the Professor. Let's keep looking at the budget chapters. Looking at the specific amounts of so-called social security benefits - as I said I would stay here with this - will be a few hundred million forints less, but other social subsidies, and we know in relation to the budget chapters that include aid, will already have 34 billion forints less nominally for this function, together with a reduction in its ratios of several items. Family allowances, children, children and maternity allowances will remain unchanged for the next year, for seven years now, and the amount of appropriations will be further reduced. The family allowance is reduced by almost HUF 4 billion, we see some increase in maternity allowance, child care benefits are reduced, child rearing allowances are reduced, child protection subsidies in cash and in kind are reduced, child support premiums are reduced. Now, please, it is possible to say that the number of children is also decreasing, and it is most likely that the compilers of the budget thought that they would reduce these budget expenditure in proportion. But I just mentioned the situation in which hundreds of thousands of children are in, so this money had to be spent on this and not just proportionate. In the context of social assistance, it is already explained that, in addition to pensions, the real value of certain benefits is preserved. That doesn't exactly cover reality, in my opinion. The basic amount of the care fee is indeed rising, but here it is noted that the increase from HUF 31,000 to HUF 32 600 is a 5% increase. The amount of disability allowance is also increasing, as every year since 2014 the rate of pension increase has increased. In several cases, on the basis of the proposal on which the budget is based, the range of right holders has been expanded by raising the eligibility threshold by 5%. However, the amount of many social benefits remains unchanged, the sixth year of employment replacement grants will be paid in the amount of HUF 22 800 if the Parliament adopts next year's budget. It is worth noting that this year's public work is only intended for two thirds of this year's public work, with a reduction of nearly HUF 100 billion in the available resources. The amount of public health care does not change, nor does the reference amounts for baby bonds. The amount of the double annual child protection allowance does not change compared to this year, it is basically 6,000 HUF and 6500 HUF for children with a cumulative disadvantage. Let us not forget how much aid was abolished in 2015. If I were a little cynical, I could also say that I was looking for housing support in this budget law, looking for debt management services, looking for regular social assistance, looking for equity public health care, looking for equity care. All the more so, Mr Secretary of State, because yesterday there were more than 400 civilian representatives in the pension parlament here in the Upper House room, and several speakers said that this measure has basically made municipal authorities impossible for many years. Even if they wanted to help, they could not help the people in need, because the so-called municipal support provided by the central budget on this item is not enough mainly to remedy social problems in small settlements. [[17.20]] Dear House, I mentioned the declines in GDP, and I also have to say a sentence about disability benefits. Invalidity benefits will be reduced by HUF 11.6 billion next year, so this amount will change to HUF 309 billion. In the salad on which the budget is based, the proposal introduces the exceptional disability benefit, for which, according to the norm, - Article 16 §2 - About HUF 150 million is intended within the Health Insurance Fund. In the case of social services, this is Annex 2 - support for individual social and child welfare tasks will be reduced from HUF 51.8 billion this year to HUF 43 billion next year. The day-to-day provision of social catering, the day-to-day institutional care of the elderly, the day-to-day institutional provision of disabled and demented persons, the day-to-day institutional provision of psychiatric and addictive patients, and the normative provision of the day-to-day institutional care of the homeless remain unchanged. Social services will be reduced by more than HUF 12 billion next year, as well as by HUF 3.2 billion less to support non-public human services for social purposes. So, if you look at the main social lines in relation to 2017 in the budget of 18, it seems that less money is spent on family programmes, less money is spent on child protection funds, less money is spent on targeted support for children's loans, less money is spent on social and non-state human services, less money is spent on community benefits, less on social work, less on child welfare and child protection tasks, less on family allowances, less on childcare, less on child support, less on child support in cash and in kind, less on child support, less on child support, less on child support, less on service support, less on pre-age care, less on temporary mining allowances and less on farm benefits. In addition, less is paid for the spousal allowance, less is paid for the support of diabetics in the case of other subsidies, less is paid to supplement the workables, less is intended to perform district social tasks, less is spent on public health care, other housing allowances, social policy travel premiums and the Start work programme, and I have already mentioned that more than HUF 11.6 billion is deducted from disability and rehabilitation benefits. I need to say one more sentence on the pension chapter about an unworthy and unjust government intention. For nearly nine years now, the pension minimum is unchanged: 28 500 HUF. I think it's a shame to say that. It is a shame to say it, even if it is said that a few hundred people will be set at 28 500 forints or even close to it. But it's worth spending time with the numbers. We had a motion last year, and one of our Fidesz fellow Members justified the negative decision - because the Committee on Welfare discussed it - that so few people are affected in terms of their number that it is not worth considering. I'm a pretty thorough man. I look into everything. We wanted to increase the retirement pension to HUF 50,000. There were over 72,000 people whose old-age pension - I would like to stress that his old-age pension - did not reach HUF 50,000. If we also took pension benefits, it turned out that 364 thousand people in the last year were people whose benefits did not reach 50,000 forints. Today there are about 330,000 of these people. If you think my fellow Member, who justified the decision of the Fidesz people that there are so few in their number that it is not worth dealing with, then I think that a policy that says that he wants to politicalise the situation of families and people by improving their quality of life, then I think that everyone should have voted in favour of the motion. Or if they no longer wanted to vote for the motion of an MSZP representative, they would have tabled another motion. If there were ten people with humiliatingly low old-age pensions, that should also be dealt with, but there are hundreds of thousands of people here. It's hundreds of thousands of people! You must have read it yourself, two days ago, a civil society organisation published the minimum subsistence data in relation to minimum subsistence research, since it has been more than a year now that the Hungarian Central Statistical Office has not counted a minimum salary, and it has revealed that only pensioners - if I was at the old-age pension minimum - were living minim, the single-member pensioner household was HUF 79 757 last year. I looked at the number of people who have a pension below the living minimum of a retired single-person household. My fellow Members, there are 1 million 30,000 elderly people whose status is retired and whose pension is less than HUF 79 757. I have finished my speech here, and I think it will be worth addressing the amendments to my fellow Members, because I believe that every Member who submits an amendment to the budget for next year will do so with a view to changing the situation of nearly 10 million people living here. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-05-18-118	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy.
u2017-05-18-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the central budget for 2018, I would like to talk briefly about civil society organisations. I'd like to make two points in advance. The sensitivity of the topic is partly due to the fact that in recent decades there has been a real risk that the organisations of civil society are being used by foreign interest groups. It is often used as a means to influence the functioning of civil society organisations, either directly or indirectly, in such a way as to substantially transform the basic objectives of civil society organisations. The aim of such benefits is to ensure that, through the social influence of the civil society organisations benefiting from them, support interest groups pursue their own interests in Hungary's political and social life. For the sake of transparency of these processes, my pro-government colleagues have tabled a bill on transparency for organisations supported from abroad, which is in the process of legislation. My second point is that there are organisations that want to show themselves to the organisation representing the entire civil society, if you will, as the voice of civilians. This trend, in my view, is extremely harmful, as that is not what the civil world, in my view, is about. According to the latest data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, 62 152 foundations and social non-profit organisations operate in Hungary. Of these 54 401 organisations are classic civil society organisations. [[17 .30]] The number of foundations is 19 917 and the number of associations is 34 484. According to organisational forms, classic civil society organisations include private foundations, associations and associations. Non-profit enterprises are called non-profit companies, and public foundations with a low economic weight compared to the former, with government, local government, mainly specialised in the performance and support of public tasks. The third group of non-profit organisations shall be represented by interest representatives. 23.2% of the country's civil society organisations are located in Budapest, 21 percent in county seats and 25 percent in municipalities, which, I think, is relatively balanced. In 2011, when the law of association was adopted, the National Assembly acknowledged that the voluntary cooperation of people is essential for the development of Hungary, civil society organisations are the fundamental elements of society, which continuously contribute to the day-to-day achievement of our common values. The recognition of their socially useful and community-creating activities, the promotion of their public interest and their public benefit is a necessary and important task. The total revenue of non-profit organisations increased by one third between 1993 and 2015, but still cannot reach 5 percent. However, progress in employment is much more dynamic, with the sector's labour market share tripled. The annual revenues of the classic civil sector have started to grow since 2010, largely due to private and small increases in public support by 2014. Between 2010 and 2015, the rate of public support to the classic civil sector increased from HUF 144 billion a year to HUF 202 billion a year, which shows an increase of more than 40 percent. The most important element of the increase in State aid is the new tax system introduced from 1 January 2015, on behalf of which - a provision on taxes - is similar to the offer of 1 percent of personal income tax, but it is also linked to tax savings in the case of corporate tax. The taxpayer can offer to support filmmaking, support performance and art bodies, support visual team sports. Two specific forms of public support for classic civil society organisations are the National Cooperation Fund, NEA, and the possibility of providing 1 percent of personal income tax. NEA is a form of funding created by civil society law to support the operation and professional activities of civil society organisations, where civil society organisations can apply not only for the support of their operating costs and professional programmes, but also for the use of state aid for the donations they collect. The source of NEA is equal to the difference between the amount that may be offered to civilian beneficiaries and actually allocated to them in the second year preceding the given budget year. In the civil sector, therefore, the amount corresponding to 1 per cent of the GDP reaches in any case, some of it directly according to the taxpayers' provision, and the rest through the support of the NEA. In 2016, 15 858 applications were submitted by NEA, while 16 524 requests were submitted by civil society organisations for ongoing applications in 2017. In order to ensure the independence of the aid scheme, 90 percent of the aid granted by NEA will be distributed by tender pursuant to the Civil Code. The preparation of the NEA calls for proposals, the evaluation of the received proposals and the professional verification of the achievement of the supported objectives shall be carried out by five colleges of nine members, the membership of which shall be partly given by representatives elected by civil society organisations. The activities supported by the five colleges cover the entire civil sector. The Fund can therefore be financed to support the beneficiaries of the calls for proposals and to support individual applications. In 2018 we can count on the receipt of 17 thousand aid applications in advance and 6500 grant applications in the order of magnitude. Support for the operation of civil information centres can also be financed under the Fund. The obligations for the operation of civil information centres are set out in Article 51 of the Civil Code. § 1 states that they are active to support the functioning of civil society organisations, to strengthen their sustainability and to facilitate the proper use of subsidies collected in the general government subsystem. It is also important for civil society organisations to be informed and informed about the operation of the Civil Information Portal. The Civil Information Portal fully includes a description of the legislation on civil society organisations in Hungary, presents fresh news, creates a public-credit database, and provides access to the register of organisations receiving volunteers in the public interest. The electronic forms on the Civil Information Portal promote the implementation of e-administration, as well as the possibility for Hungarian NGOs from abroad to register on the interface. The National Cooperation Fund, which is a key source of funding for civil society organisations, has received a separate sub-page on the Civil Information Portal, with its own content, structure and external appearance. The integration of the Civil Information Portal into society is increasing year after year, thanks to the fact that it has become a difficult interface for civil society organisations, thanks to up-to-date information that it transmits to them, which is difficult for them to operate every day. I would like to remind you that a number of EU calls provide funding for civil society organisations, allowing support for activities at local level and which are being pursued and planned to be carried out by local civil society organisations. The EFOP includes more than 30 applicants for civil society organisations, offering a total of HUF 217 billion in development funding. The budget, involving important civil sectors, also provides support for the provision of certain organisations or specific tasks, be it the case of people with disabilities, the renovation of monuments across borders or even voluntary fire brigades. It can therefore be concluded that, despite all opposition rumors, the Hungarian government does not want to make the lives of civil society organisations difficult or ruined - on the contrary. Following the recently adopted legislative package of administrative facilitations, the 2018 budget also offers the possibility of a thriving civilian life. I ask your support for this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-120	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2017-05-18-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been mentioned here today from Gábor Varga, our pro-government colleague, on the chapters dealing with the environment of budget, let me consider this in part in general, and give reasons for some of my amendments in the time frame at my disposal. It is possible to say and communicate, tricking with numbers that every year there is an increase in spending on environmental protection in the budget, but another question is what results we see in reality and what they are made up of. [[17.40]] So what is included here in environmental and nature conservation expenditures or which chapters of the budget are listed in this section? For as long as it is about HUF 3000 billion that can be used for environmental protection in the EU cycle, of which only 60 billion can be used directly under the budget for nature conservation. And this is surprisingly a large sum at first, but given the nature conservation tasks and problems, it is not an overly generous amount. There are, indeed, lines here in the budget in relation to environmental protection, and my fellow Member Gábor Varga stressed, for example, the reduction of the amount of particulate matter and pollution in the field of air cleanliness protection, to which the government has devoted an additional resource for the implementation of the action plan, but it is questionable how we will see its effectiveness and effectiveness in the following year. After all, we know that while the population is suffering from heating problems, in terms of partly heating with wood, in part, who do not even have enough firewood, but who are firing with all kinds of household waste, they make a significant contribution to the discharge of dust, but they do not do so willingly, or because they are not happy, but because they cannot afford fuel and are forced to heat it with what they have to do not freeze. Of course, this is not right, but a plan of action alone does not help. This example shows that poverty is significant, the proportion of poor people in Hungary. We know that millions of people live below the minimum living age, so it is for them that the government is developing a plan of measures to reduce air pollution, and to do so, a few billion forints is not a help in itself. On the other hand, there are some items, if we are talking about environmental protection, where, for years, or perhaps I can say, governments have been lagging behind for decades, and we are increasingly falling behind, which is a series of amounts to be spent on environmental remediation and the eradication of environmentally contaminated areas. What we see is that more and more areas emerge year after year, where either as a legacy of the socialist industry or as a legacy of businesses that have occurred since then, a contaminated area remains, or a large amount of hazardous waste that needs to be disposed of, and in general, these companies are already in liquidation or liquidated, cannot be reached, their owner is not fulfilled, the polluter pays principle is not fulfilled, but remains to the State if adequate resources are available. And here I am thinking not only of European Union funds, but also specifically of Hungarian budgetary resources; as was the national environmental remediation programme, which was gradually emptied, and there was not enough resources left for the government to take action to eliminate the polluting sites that are ticking here as a time bomb at different points in the country to pollute our drinking water, our soil, to poison the population in the area. Of course, when civilians or local residents start protesting and the media are exposed, the government is forced to act. This is how it happened on Scenty Road, and so it happened in several other places in Balmazújváros, for example: to transport the spectacular part of the waste that was accumulated at the site. However, there is no budgetary source for the less spectacular, but more dangerous, part below the surface, which is a real threat to soil and soil water, for the pollution accumulated over decades to be eliminated and for the areas to be completely compensated. Indeed, this takes much longer and much more financial resources. It is also not part of the Ministry of Agriculture, at least not all of it, but part of the Ministry of National Development's waste management and another part of the Ministry of Interior - why not? - but the problem with waste management is that while trying to maintain these regional waste management systems, established from EU sources, there is no real resources and adequate resources for the most profitable prevention programmes in the long term in terms of environmental protection, low-waste programmes. This would be the best way to prevent future pollution. But unfortunately, it continues to wait for itself, and in the case of environmental protection, it is a border area, obviously we also take energy efficiency here, because it also reduces air pollution or energy use, among other things, if the government spends more on energy efficiency. Unfortunately, there is still insufficient resources in relation to the needs, and even a fraction of the existing needs is this source. However, the real reduction in costs - we always say this - would mean that the full investment in energy efficiency could indeed be made for family houses and apartments, of course not in the next year's budget, but gradually, but at least increasing, because unused energy is the most environmentally friendly energy, we say, and indeed, that is the case. The government should devote much more attention and much more financial resources to this. And although there is a place for public buildings, there is some source for family houses, whether we think of the program "Home Gay" or other programs, but unfortunately there is always multiple demands, and of course every Hungarian household that is outdated and unconventional would have the right to require, in the case of an appropriate financial arrangement, a radical reduction in its spending in the long term. So we're not talking about a 20-percent reduction, we're talking about up to 40-50 per cent energy savings. And this is the best investment in the future and in the field of environmental protection, and every time we talk about it in Parliament, we always say that the government should devote much more energy to these areas. I could mention a lot of other areas, but I have to speak in a few words about the budgetary amendments that I have tabled at my disposal. There are, among these, motions that have been waiting for years to come true, we have been submitting them over and over again for years, with the intention that perhaps someday the government will accept and implement them by some miracle. These include, for example, the development and settlement resources or amendments relating to Lake Balaton, which have been waiting for years, for example, for the resources earmarked for property expropriation, which are used to implement free coastal promenades. The Balaton Act has already stated since 2000 that 30 percent of the inland coasts have to have at least five metres wide accessible coastal promenades. Several ideas have been made about how many properties need to be acquired, and different plans have been made. I have put a lot of written questions on this subject, and the answer has always come to be either a new planning process or an appropriate envelope is not available. That is why we have tabled this amending budget, as we have also tabled, in connection with Lake Balaton, an amendment to the original state of the lake bed and the coastline, which also serves environmental and nature protection purposes, for the purpose of dismantling illegal fillings and docks. The development of Lake Balaton is a matter of my heart, as a Member of Parliament starting in the constituency of Lake Balaton, so I am particularly sensitive to these problems, and a good part of my amendments discuss these issues, the various problems of this region, this region. I wouldn't list them just in the absence of time, but there are still amendments relating to the environment that I would like to say a few words about. For example, greater support for green organisations, civil society organisations in the field of environmental protection and nature protection, as not one of them is actually doing everyday, extremely useful preventive, educational, social awareness-raising activities, which are mostly carried out by their members, and, of course, because it is a civil society organisation, based on their own energy and their own resources. However, we believe that these social organisations should be further supported in the budget. [[17.50]] After all, there are a number of tasks in national environmental programmes and plans that cannot be effectively carried out by a government body or authority, which are responsible for civil society organisations, who are closest to the population, so to speak, because they make up the population itself, the social organisations. In general, it is local interest, local patriot civil society organisations, or in the case of larger environmental organisations, they are always familiar with local problems, they know the local population, they are much more effective in carrying out certain, as I have already said, environmental education and social thinking tasks. This is why we wanted their budget support to be adopted in the 2018 budget with an increased amount. These amendments - by number 33 amendments - which I have tabled for my constituency and, by the way, for environmental protection tasks, we always ask the government to consider their support. We have not yet seen a very good example of this in recent years, but we have always hoped that, by some miracle, some of them will be heard and at least some of them will be adopted. In the meantime, we hope that after 2018 there will finally be a government for Hungary, who will manage environmental protection and nature protection in its place, and will take it seriously. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-122	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr István Szávay, notary, for a two-minute comment.
u2017-05-18-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to respond to my fellow Member Hadházy. Congressman, there are two options for what you have read here, and it's probably been pushed into your hands in one of the ministries. One is that you either have no idea what you have read about civilians, or you do not care at all about the state of the civil sphere in Hungary. You have a historical responsibility for the fact that everyone in Hungary is reminded of György Soros and the migrants, because you have just put an equal sign among these concepts in order to make enemies. In Hungary, the vast majority of civil society organisations do not care about politics, they do not want to install anyone in Hungary, and they do not want to protect anyone's interests, they want to live, but they do not have anything to do with it. A thriving civilian life, Congressman? Let's stop laughing at each other about what you said in the budget. Out of 17 500 organisations, 6500 organisations could receive funding from NEA applicants this year. Do you know what it was before, during the many scolding Bajnai and Gyurcsány governments? 98 percent of civil society organisations, the applicant civil society organisations, received some kind of operating grant, at least HUF 200,000 if they met the tender criteria. And do you know why that was possible, Congressman? [[For signal:]] He doesn't know. Well, that's the problem, so you don't know what you read. It was possible because during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments twice as much money was given in real terms into the open-ended civil organisation framework as you provide as a civil, national and Christian conservative government to civil society organisations. And let's not talk about how these money is being distributed. The left-wing governments - and let me not be their protégé, only if it came to that - added the same amount to the left-wing governments, which is why 8 or 9 billion HUF ten years ago, and you do not do so. In fact, from 1 percent in the last six years, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the tax administration swallowed HUF 1.7 billion from suppliers who did not meet their tax obligations in time, but later did, but according to the current rules, this money is no longer transferred to civil society organisations. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-124	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Hadházy.
u2017-05-18-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, You have a hearing problem, I didn't say George Soros' name, you brought it here. Thank you very much. [[István Szávay: If you had stood up, at least you would have said something!]]
u2017-05-18-126	Thank you. Press the button, Congressman, so don't push now, because you can't get a two-minute comment, but Congressman Attila Mesterházy gets a two-minute comment.
u2017-05-18-127	Thank you very much. Mr President, My fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, has saved me a lot of time to comment on this issue, but let me add one thought to that. You have concluded, Mr President, by saying that only the opposition is saying that the government wants to spot me - not in that way - with civil society organisations. Please, not us, but simply daily practice shows that you only have the good NGO that you provide with resources, and that is why it is loyal and does what you think it is, that all other civil society organisations want to be intimidated or disincentived, and that is in no way a proper attitude. It is true that all you do is label these organisations, and I would like to clean up civil society organisations that make critical comments that you do not like - and I quote your Vice-President - from Hungary, because it would be much easier if you listened to these critical comments and, as my better fellow Member has said, the resources could be increased even more for civil society organisations. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-18-128	Thank you. Now we're going back to normal time-frame comments. I give the floor first to Congresswoman Ágnes Molnár.
u2017-05-18-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the context of the debate on next year's draft budget, I would like to address those who need us to present the health sector numbers of the 2018 budget through realistic figures. We have before us the draft budget for 2018, we finally have the opportunity to make a full comparison of the results of two eight-year-old governments based on facts and figures, where the numbers can be checked for anyone, and we can find out who was concerned about funding the health system. We may also be able to give a reassuring answer to Congressman Tukacs, who has started today's speech by saying that a thousand billion removals from health care during the Fidesz government, and perhaps we can confirm Mr Lukács's speech yesterday, who has already acknowledged at some level that there is an increase in financing the health care system in real terms. Of course, we need to know that the financing of a health system cannot, in the long term, be rejected by a country's economic policy, which is why it is very important and joyful that economic policy has shown results in recent years, and therefore, of course, it has a positive impact on health. The previous high budget deficit has been kept down, instead of growing debt previously, the budget is characterised by a declining debt ratio and economic growth in excess of 4 per cent next year. Unfortunately, however, it is a matter of fact that before 2010, the convergence programme had been subtracted from the sector, and the new government had to make up for it after 2010 with a great deal of effort and gradually over the years. Perhaps the most important item of the health budget is the cash register of medical-preventive benefits, which includes, among other things, the financing of general medical care, dental care, rescue, clinics and hospitals. In this context, it is visible and can be monitored over the years in the examination of budget drafts and budgetary legislation, that during a year between 2009 and 2008, 38 billion were withdrawn from the preventive-healing fund during the Socialist Government, but every year after 2010 the government increased the funding of curative-preventive benefits, from 790 billion to 1201 billion in the financing of curative-preventive benefits. Unfortunately, however, it was also a practice that the Socialists failed to plan the E Fund, and in three consecutive years the lack of the Health Insurance Fund exceeded HUF 300 billion, but thanks to the government's responsible management, the deficit has been reduced step by step, and since 2014 the E Fund has been in balance. [[18.00]] The fact is that after 2010, it was not easy to put this unconventional, credit-based health policy in the direction of a well-founded health system development based on real resources. In addition to stabilising the budget, debt had to be settled and hospital consolidation has taken place on several occasions since 2010. Together with the last €60 billion grant, we spent a total of HUF 250 billion on this purpose. If we look at next year's health budget, it can be seen that this is the second year in a row when an additional resource comes to health to a significant extent, between 17 and 18 more than 100 billion additional resources will be allocated to the sector. As I promised, I would like to compare the difference between the two eight-year-old health resources, so let's look at the Health Insurance Fund first. The total expenditure of the Health Insurance Fund will increase from 1470 billion to 2315 billion forints compared to 2010. That's a 57 percent increase. If we take into account the deterioration of money, there is a 33 percent increase in real terms. For curative-preventive benefits, compared to 2010 there will be HUF 410 billion more money next year, a 52 percent increase, which is 29 percent in real terms, compared to the 0 percent real growth in Hungarian between 2002 and 2010. The GP's register increased from 79 billion to 124 billion HUF between 2010 and 2018, which is a 56 percent increase, representing 32 percent in real terms, compared to 14 percent in 2002-2010. Next year's surplus of basic care will be available to GPs on a number of items. There is a total surplus of 6.2 billion forints for the revision of the indicator system and the financing of quality work, and the expansion of the practice communities, where preventive ordering and health promotion would be emphasized, is 2.5 billion forints, and the operation of the collegial management system has been planned by doubling the amount so far. This represents a total of HUF 9.2 billion more than this year's for general practitioners. In the other important area of primary care, in eight years, there is a 50 percent increase in protective care, from HUF 18 billion to HUF 27 billion in budget appropriations. That's a 27 percent increase in real terms. The same was only 19 percent between 2002 and 2010. Of course, the figures also show that the government has actually started to renew the basic supply, and besides the increase in funding, other remarkable steps have been taken to strengthen the basic supply, to support the start of young general practitioners' careers or asset support programmes.In 2018 there will be 17 billion forints more money than in 2010, which means a 50 percent increase in real terms. The revenue of the National Rescue Service will increase by HUF 6.7 billion, which includes the 4 billion that will cover the 10 percent increase in wages.Since 2010, in Hungary, it has to be said and not enough to stress that 500 new ambulances, which are 60 percent of the total fleet of cars, have been put on the market, 27 new rescue stations have been built and 85 rescue stations have been renewed. Let's see hospitals, clinics, and resources for this. In fact, the budget line for the combined specialised supply was increased from HUF 553 billion to HUF 811 billion, which is a 47 percent increase and 24 percent in real terms. On the other hand, between 2002 and 2010 3 per cent of the combined specialised supply was spent in real terms. In the period 2017-2018, a surplus of 9.2 billion will be received for combined professional care. If we add that after 2010, there were 500 billion health improvements, which were typical of the whole country, if I wanted to, from Győr to Gyula, from Nagykanizsa to Nyíregyháza, there is no doubt that the government has provided significant resources and improvements to hospitals. This has to be clear to everyone. In view of the fact that these developments mainly affected the convergence region, the renewal of the health care system in Budapest could now be the next step. We've already started the prep work. The government has accepted the concept of the. Healthy Budapest. Besides increasing resources, there will be institutional renovations and constructions in the capital, at least three - two Pest and one Buda hospital centers, and the development of associated co-centres will take place in the coming years. The modernization of the supply system in Budapest, the construction and renovation of new healthcare buildings are primarily carried out from domestic sources, with no less than 26 billion HUF available in the budget this year. Thus, 30 billion funds can be used for the renewal of the Budapest Healthy program, hospitals. The budget also provides for two major investments in Budapest. This is the two special metropolitan institutions, one of which is the hospital in Kőbánya, for which we will spend 2.5 billion next year, and the other: the Bethesda Children's Hospital and the Buda Mercy Hospital will work together to develop obstetric, gynaecological and child psychiatric care, and the development of the child's emergency care will also be linked to this. The budget will provide 5 billion for next year's development. Our aim is also to relieve the burden of active hospital care, one of which is to extend overnight surgical benefits. For this purpose, the budget provided HUF 2 billion. In addition, there are 8 billion EU development funds for the development of one-day care, and we have created a set of conditions for the development of one-day care that, in addition to the performance-volume limit, there will be unlimited funding for the work carried out, the one-day care. This is also important because in 2009 only 129 thousand cases of one-day care were provided, and in 2014 this value was estimated to be 224 thousand. So yes, it is necessary to apply this form of supply and to strengthen it. In order to help hospitals and clinics, the government provided HUF 8.7 billion to cover the increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, thus reducing the burden on hospitals' budgets. Death from cancer in Hungary is a serious public health problem. We're doing everything we can to get results. [[18.10]] Unfortunately, some 33,000 deaths occur each year. However, it has turned in a percentage and shows decreasing data, the successful work done because of the expenses. We therefore continue to consider the reduction of cancer to be key and therefore support all programmes needed to achieve our objectives. We have therefore launched a new national programme to identify and develop treatments for cancer-related genes. In this context, new so-called oncogenomic panels are also intended to be used effectively for early diagnosis of tumors. The programme will be budgeted at HUF 500 million next year. It is also a very important goal to manage free screening of healthcare workers exposed to hepatitis C in order to reduce liver cancer and, if necessary, to provide all the conditions for their treatment. For this, a budget of HUF 600 million is available. In order to achieve the two objectives mentioned above, the first funding will be published in the 2018 budget. We can remember what serious public health measures we have taken in recent years, just thinking about reducing unhealthy food and reducing smoking. Next year, we can move forward in this area as well. A government decision on short-term measures related to the national public health strategy has recently been issued. The screening tests are planned for two years; the population is moved close to the screening tests by 20 filter buses. After breast cancer and cervical screening, the start of the third organized national colon screening and the complex program for circulatory diseases can all be steps with high health gains, with a total amount of HUF 9.7 billion in the 2018 budget to support this. Please allow me to talk a little bit more about perhaps the most important building block of the entire health system, the workers in it. I think we have decades of debt to our doctors and nurses so that we can appreciate their work. We need to pay this debt step by step, with decent working conditions and wages. Unfortunately, they thought differently about it earlier. Between 2002 and 2010, they were able to provide a single evaluable wage increase, and this was also done on credit, I am sure that Congressman Mesterházy remembers it. [[Attila Mesterházy: Absolutely!]] - without real collateral, which, overall, caused more damage than profit, and was also indebted to the sector on this basis. It is difficult for my socialist fellow Members to understand this because they have not yet been able to interpret a health budget number in their entire life. [[Attila Mesterházy: Ah!]] And you don't understand, it'd be nice to have expert guards, and then maybe they'd be trying to argue about health numbers. [[Sándor Burány: A little more teaching, please!]] This is different now: after the two-step wage increase in 2012-13 and the frozen release of mobile wages, a new series of wage increases started last year. The government has concluded a successful agreement with the organisations of interest in the health sector after long negotiations, with the winners of which were doctors and health workers. Specialists and institutional pharmacists received a salary increase of HUF 107 thousand last fall, with a further increase of HUF 100,000 coming in November this year. Healthcare workers received an average wage increase of 26,5 per cent last fall, followed by three additional wage increases, 12 per cent this year, 8 per cent next year and 8 per cent in 2019. This doubles the average wage of nurses and nurses between 2012 and 19 on average. I think this is a very significant step forward to appreciate their work. In the 2018 budget, there is a surplus of HUF 58 billion for health wage increases. Let us not forget the minimum wage and the guaranteed wage minimum wage catch programme, which this year meant a 15% increase in the minimum wage, a 25% increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, and next year a further 8 percent increase in the minimum wage and a 12 percent increase in the minimum wage. It is true that there is a narrowing gap between certain elements of pay tables in health care as well, but many in the sector have also been positively affected by the increase, and that, in addition, health workers who are not affected by health wage increases have also received wage increases, but in our hospitals and clinics, for example, in economic and technical areas, are doing very important activities in the healthcare system. According to January 2017 data, the average monthly gross salary of healthcare workers is HUF 274 170, which is an 18.3% increase in one year. With this, the average salary of health workers reached and even exceeded the national average. It is a pleasure that in recent years there has been a decrease in emigration for doctors and nurses as well, in 2016, 15 percent less caregivers requested the necessary permission than they did a year ago. And I am convinced that this is not independent of the residency scholarship programme that we launched in 2012, the wage increases that will give workers a more predictable vision. These residency grants have been running for the sixth year. A budget of HUF 1.5 billion per year ensures its coverage, and the budget of the 18th budget adds an additional HUF 1 billion to this cover. Within the tendering framework, young doctors who apply may receive a net monthly HUF 100 to 200 thousand. This year's applications include more than 4,500 scholarships. With regard to wage increases, allow me to draw attention to two groups separately. Even this year, after the wage developments, the patronage services will continue to receive a monthly allowance of HUF 33 thousand. The wage development program of the women of the defence was launched in 12th year, and in 2018 it will provide an additional HUF 2 billion in cover, which will result in a monthly allowance of HUF 33 thousand. National Ambulance staff will also receive an increase. All OMSZ employees will receive a 10% wage increase as of 1 January. Next year's budget includes a surplus of HUF 4 billion. This means that rescue workers who are also affected by multi-stage healthcare wage increases will also receive a separate increase. This means an average increase of 67 per cent between 2016 and 2018. Apart from wage increases, of course, it is also a pleasure to be able to launch the scholarship system, the so-called Mihalicza Scholarship, for certified nurses. The 2018 budget provides HUF 500 million in funding for this. Training already starts this year. [[18.20]] The 2018 budget, we can say on the basis of what has been said, is the budget of people living in work. It is clear that this also applies to healthcare workers. The government is aware that well-functioning health care cannot be imagined without the recognition of the work of its workers. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that we have a budget that is predictable, solid and not financed by loans. Stability, development, consolidation and wage increases: this is the characteristic of our goals in the past and in the future. The government believes in these objectives in the area of health, and so far the budgetary resources have also ensured that these objectives are met. Both this budget and next year's draft budget will fully ensure that these objectives are achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, I would like to ask everyone with respect to support this budget for 2018. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-18-130	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Árpád Velez.
u2017-05-18-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Thank you very much, Mrs Molnár, Mrs Molnár, for your concern for the Socialist Party, but I would suggest that you deal with industrial theft within your own party, and then everyone will have a better life. Summer is coming up again, and Fidesz is putting forward a central budget once again without knowing the real numbers, with nothing to measure. We do not have the basic objective knowledge that would help us to make our decisions. At the moment, only plans can be compared with plans, thus leading to the creation of a fictitious budget, which will have to be amended countless times in the process. The government will present this year's amendment of the central budget for.17 at the same time and next year's bill on the central budget for 2018. The question of how real next year's budget will be is inevitable. The information and facts needed to base next year's budget are not yet available. Because the figures needed to be well-founded are maximum predictions, trends, and the experience of previous years allows the government to speculate on them. At the moment, the foundation of next year's spending can be supported by little knowledge. On the other hand, the adoption of the 18th budget also significantly affects the scope of the new government, which will be established after the parliamentary elections next year. To put it mildly, despite their confidence, it is not too elegant to set a framework for the functioning of the new government that will be established next spring, regardless of who or who will be in government. During the evaluation of next year's central budget, the State Audit Office also identified a number of points of concern. These identified and identified doubts include, for example, the fact that the 2.4 percent structural balance does not ensure consistency with the medium-term government deficit target. Similarly, it is not in line with the government deficit target of 1.8 per cent as defined by the government decision on the medium-term revenue and expenditure plans for the central budget for 2017-2019 at chapter level. On the expenditure side, it considers the spending of approximately HUF 1500 billion to be wholly or partly unfounded. In comparison, I would like to note here that this amount is just half of what Fidesz acquired and spent by einstanding private pension funds. In the same way, it cannot be excluded that macroeconomic developments are less favourable than anticipated in 2018. Compared to this year, public debt increases nominally by HUF 1300 billion in 2018. The planned amount of debt of the municipal sub-scheme for 2018 is HUF 240 billion, which is 160 percent of the expected value for the previous year, i.e. this year. So next year, local government debts will increase by 60 percent compared to this year. These are the data and facts on which the Socialist Party will not be able to support this bill. Thank you. [[Attila Mesterházy applauds.]]
u2017-05-18-132	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy.
u2017-05-18-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Next, I would like to talk about the justice aspects of the 2018 budget, and I would like to present to you the budgetary processes of the last few years. Before evaluating the draft budget law before us, I would like to recall the laws, the laws that apply to the budget for justice. It is a very important innovation in the 2011 law of the Court of Justice, that the President of the National Court Office plans the budget of the courts, will present this draft budget to the government. This draft submitted by the National Court Office complements, of course, the Curia's budget, and the budget planned by the Curia and the OBH is included in the state budget submitted by the government. What is the significance of this method? It is obviously the importance of independence, the fact that the National Court Office assesses the budgetary needs of the courts and thus submits it to the Parliament. The government will submit it without any change. This, of course, never meant that the National Assembly automatically accepted the proposal of the President of the Court of Justice, but it always shows how the National Court Office imagines the future of the courts. As regards the facts of recent years, I would like to explain to you that in 2010, in the year in which the so-called second Orbán government took over government, the total budget support of the courts was HUF 70 billion in the size of the budget chapter. This increased to HUF 74 billion in 2011, HUF 79 billion in 12, HUF 86 billion in 2013, HUF 89 billion in 2014, HUF 89 billion in 2015, HUF 92 billion in 2016 and HUF 99 billion in 2017. Next year it will exceed 100 billion forints. So from 2010 to 2018, the court budget, the support of the court chapter, has increased from 70 billion to more than 100 billion forints. Of which, a significant item is the provision of personal benefits. So, as all pro-government speakers have already said, next year's budget is the budget of people living on wages and salaries, so I would like to state that the amount spent on personal allowances with HUF 57 billion in 2010 will reach HUF 80 billion by 2018. So in 2010 the amount of personal benefits will be 57 billion HUF, and in 2018 it will be more than HUF 80 billion. The development of the prosecution's budget has looked like this in the last seven years. In 2010, there were 28 billion public prosecutors' budgets, 32 billion in 2011, 36 billion in 2012, 36 billion in 13, and 38 billion in 2014, 39 in 2015, 39 in 2016 and 43 billion in 2017. Next year, the D.A.'s office is planning on doing something about the same. This means that the public prosecutor's support has increased to 43 billion compared to 28 billion in 2010. We know that we also have to count on inflation during that period, but this is also a significant increase in real terms, because if, let's just say, I look at the court budget, the support of the courts increased by almost 50 percent during this period, while there was no such inflation for God. So this is definitely an increase in real terms. [[18.30]] It is true that this should not be overlooked that, in addition to all this, the tasks of the judicial organisation, the judiciary, have also increased significantly, so we can talk about support for an ever-increasing judicial work that is growing in real terms. It is a significant item, and there is a significant debate about the change in the court salary base. The salary base also determines the income of judges and, of course, the income of judicial staff. The judicial salary base is therefore of key importance. I would like to tell you the good news that next year, the salary of the court's staff will continue to increase. I'd also like to show you how you've changed. Between 2012 and 2016, the judge's salary was 391 600 forints. This increased to HUF 431 740 in 2017 and is expected to grow to HUF 453 330 in 2018, which means that the judicial salary base will increase by 15 percent from 1 October 2016, with 15 percent in 15 months. So next year, the law enforcement staff will also make more money. As I said, this applies not only to court staff, but also to other court staff with the status of a judge, and the same applies to prosecutorial staff, since the salary base of prosecutors is the same as the judicial salary basis. I would add that it is also an important rule of law to guarantee independence, its guarantee that the budget of the courts can never be less than the previous year. Therefore, in any case, there must be the same or more of the Court's budget. This is also true of the judicial salary base. So it is not possible to step back, but, as I have shown, every year there is a steady increase, and I think that not insignificant growth, but rather significant growth, can be shown. I have to say that I have shown you the processes that have characterised the court budget so far. You should know that the President of the National Court of Justice is planning to make even greater progress in his budget proposal for next year. The President of the National Court of Justice has submitted to Parliament a budget of well over 100 billion, with a budget of nearly 120 billion. So it is up to us to decide whether this budget needs to be justified. About half of this additional demand is the personal allowance, so the President of the Court of Justice proposes almost double this compared to the 15 per cent salary increase I have said in 15 months. Obviously, this is an old debate as to where and when the judges' salary was cut off from real growth, since the salary base stood still for a very long time before 2012, it did not change much between 2012 and 16, but there was not such a great increase in salaries, and, as I said, the last two years have been marked by a 15 percent increase. So the debate is not about raising judges' incomes, because the government has proposed to increase the wages of judges and court workers by a total of 15 percent in three steps. The debate is only about whether or not to increase judicial wages to a greater extent and at a higher rate. I trust that in the next few days we will see more clearly whether such a great step can be taken now, or whether this should be provided for a longer term for the jurisdiction of the court. It is undoubtedly true that the judicial wage is relatively low in international comparison, but here it is never taken into account how the judicial salary changed in real terms, i.e. due to tax rules, favourable personal income tax rules, because when we converted to single-key personal income tax, this type of income, such as the judicial wage, was the beneficiary of this single-key personal income tax. Dear House, So justice can move forward next year. The decision to make such progress is still ahead of this House. I didn't tell you about the investments, by the way. Very important and significant judicial investments have been launched. In fact, there were years in the period of government before 2010, when no court building was renovated, or at most there was money for minimal tartarisation and wrinkles. Now, however, complete, large court buildings, 100-year-old court buildings are being renewed, which is significant and, let me say, improves the feeling of people working in court, and, not least, improves public confidence in judicial power or justice if judges do not work in broken court buildings. Dear House, I'm asking you to accept the budget bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-134	Thank you. I now give the floor to notary István Szávay.
u2017-05-18-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that we are so few, because in the debate, the LMP had virtually little to say, they left after a few minutes, and they weren't here all afternoon, and KDNP, as usual, didn't have much to add to the budget. Looking at the other parties, it seems that Jobbik is the only party here in Parliament that has as much to say about the budget as there is a time frame for it. I would basically like to talk about national policy issues as usual, but allow me to return to my previous two-minute speech for a few more thought, and I am glad that Congressman Hadházy is still here, perhaps he will now respond to me in substance, not as he has just done. I have tabled a budget amendment, and I have done this every time in recent years in relation to the National Cooperation Fund, which is now foreseen at 5.2 billion forints. I would like to propose this up to 8 billion, which is still far from what left-wing governments have used for this purpose, and this is not a compliment to left-wing governments before the Hungarian Times write it tomorrow. This is your shame, my fellow Members, that as a civil Christian party, social self-organization and the civil sphere are considered to be so important. So, if Congressman Hadházy wants to create a truly prosperous civilian life in Hungary, so he said, he should support this amendment. We won't make it out of 8 billion forints, but we will be significantly ahead of the 5.2 in the proposal. With that kind of money, you cannot create a thriving civilian life, fellow Members. This thriving civilian life is highly doubtful if we know who is sharing these funds. László Csizmadia, your home-made fake, because you have been very sensitive about this because this National Cooperation Fund is led by the Csizmadia László, who has just found out what kind of state money, what kind of extermination of hundreds of millions of people makes campaigns that undermine the opposition. He is the head of the National Cooperation Fund, and while you are telling us how important the views of civilians are, no one has elected László Csizmadia here. In 2012, when there was the election of members of the council, where three civilian delegates and six pro-governments could go, as opposed to the previous nine civilian and a government delegation system, Csizmadia László was not elected by the civilians, he did not enter the first three, he even graduated from one of the last places, and the government then put him on the back of the civilians' necks to decide on these funds. The congressman spoke of the greatness of the civilian information portal. I assume that you have made this speech by not seeing the civilian information portal in your life. If he had been, he would have known how not great this portal was and how not transparent it was. It is not transparent at all, it is not searchable, and it is far from helping civilians as much as you would like to say. Just one example: for example, if I would like to search the Civil Information Portal for the fact that László Csizmadia did not push out any money to make poster campaigns embarrassing the opposition, I cannot do this. You can't look for applications, you can't look for the amounts that some organisations have received. It's the same with the Bethlen Gábor Fund, by the way, not by accident. You have no intention of transparency at all, and you do not consider civilians to be partners at all. They have done so now, while we are at the budget, a package of proposals regulating NEA has been submitted to the law establishing the budget. It's a good thing you're here, Mr. Secretary of State Tállai, and he talked about it. He came in on behalf of the NGM. They did this because you are even afraid of your own civilians, because there was no need for social consultation on the budget. [[18.40]] You, my dear members of the Government, dear government, are changing the provisions on the National Cooperation Fund, otherwise in many cases in the right direction, but I would like to add this for the sake of fairness, but you are doing this by not even asking the views of the stakeholders and the advice of the National Cooperation Fund. Now, that's how you're actually going to get involved with civilians and the civil sector. Let's move on to a few other issues, and let me basically talk about some national policy issues. It is the 100th anniversary of Trianon, my fellow Members. In this regard Jobbik submitted a proposal for a resolution 1920 The declaration of Trianon as a memorial year. You did not support this. This, of course, did not appear in the press across the border in the same way as an unfortunate comment by one of our fellow Members in a Facebook comment, which could be turned into a case. The fact that you didn't support Trianon's declaration as a memorial day wasn't full of public service television, I don't really remember it. That's a question I'd like you to take a little seriously. It is not only the anniversary of Trianon, but also the anniversary of the pre-1920 regionalist resolutions. The Romanians are preparing for this at full speed. All of Western Europe will be full of propaganda about what a great and just decision was made on 1 December 1918, when Romania received or did not receive it, with the Gyulafehérvár People's Assembly, he declared the separation of Transylvania from Hungary. There's got to be a way to compensate for that. This should be brought to the attention of the world and the international public, and it will not be enough that when we win the election in a year's time, we will begin to prepare for this. This preparation should start now. To this end, we have an amending proposal. Several separate items have been identified in the budget and several have been requested to be amended. One is support for cultural tasks across the border, for which you are planning 150 million forints. We consider this to be little, and we recommend raising it. The role of the churches as a national preserver is equally important in addition to a culture beyond the borders. The budget for the development of church institutions is HUF 300 million, which is quite limited at the whole Carpathian Basin level. About two of these churches can be renovated, or rather just one. We also recommend increasing this amount, in particular to double it. We have some old demands, which I often say only for my own amusement, and not for my own amusement, but for ours here, together, or to prove that we will truly deal with these issues after 2018, because you have not done it once, despite your promise. This is the case of Hungarian student ID to be sent to Hungarian students across the border. Zsolt Semjén promised this at his ministerial hearing in 2010. We've been waiting seven years. For seven years, I have patiently submitted the budget amendment every year. You are voted off every year, and someone at committee meetings always tells you that this is an important thing, and we will deal with it. A similar issue is the development of devices for Hungarian TV studios abroad. Since 2007, there has been no public funding for this, so that Hungarian TV studios across the border, i.e. independents, are not the ones that press the Fidesz propaganda, and can obtain any financial resources. This is also a question that we talk about every year. You will tell me that MTV will have money for this, and there will be money for that, and there will be money for that. There is no such thing, and the support of the Hungarian media outside is something so important that I think we should do it. And the same issue is the care of Hungarian war tombs across the border or abroad, the provision of an amount for war tombs, we also say it every year. I think that was even a question that may once have received the support of your pro-government representatives in the Committee on National Inclusion, as we have, by the way, one or two proposals in order every year, supported by the committee responsible, and then voted off by the pro-government majority. Unfortunately, many of the Members who supported this at Commission level have also supported it. I don't know if it's because they're obligated to, or because they don't care what they press the button for. I don't know. In any case, these things happen. There are some items that we would like to propose, introduce and consider, such as support for sister institutions. It could be through the BGA. A few years ago, I myself suggested that there should be a separate tender framework for sister settlement relationships in the BGA. We are very happy about this, but we could move on here through sister settlements and provide resources to enable parishes, schools, civil society organisations and associations to establish such relationships. The other, which I have brought here for many years, and they are also unwilling to address this issue: we have proposed the creation of a sporadic care programme for isolated, small-scale Hungarian communities that already live in sporadics, far from the Hungarian bloc. They have special needs. In many cases, they no longer have schools or congregations. Their embrace, their retention in Hungary, I think it should be an important task for Hungarian national politics, but unfortunately they do not receive enough attention. And while we're at the sporadic, let's say a few words about the csángos. The Foundation for Hungarian Education in Moldva initiated the establishment of a Hungarian educational centre last year. By the way, you supported this in the Committee on National Inclusion and then voted down here in Parliament, saying that this should not be included in the budget, but that the problem will be solved by the national political government in some form. Needless to say, nothing has happened in a year, and in the centre of the csángógóság, or at least in the largest city in the area, Bakó, such an institution would definitely be needed. Just as there is a need to support the Csángó education programme in general; we also propose to allocate resources to this. We have three proposals for Hungarian communities outside the Carpathian Basin, and we have also discussed this on several occasions. The government still refuses to acknowledge these people. These are the people who, for the most part, have left the country because of your disastrous economic policies and not because of an adventurous desire, in increasing numbers, now form tens and even hundreds of thousands of communities in Western Europe and overseas. For their maintenance, education, pastoral activity around them, the government has no strategy at all. For a year now, Minister of State Potápi has promised that they will try to collect it in some way, to assess what kind of Hungarian schools or Sunday schools are operating, and they will be supported in some form by the government. Compared to this, we have come to the conclusion that when Minister Potápi was out in Dublin a year ago and promised 3 million forints to the Hungarians there, the Secretary of State failed to manage the payment in a year, which I consider rather shameful to you. So we propose the creation of three separate lines. One is the support of foreign Hungarian churches with an amount of HUF 2.5 billion. In this context, support for pastoral service and support for the weekend Hungarian school network, which in itself is not only a question of money, but there are serious things to consider here. We would like to present the Hungarian Youth Conference and the National Youth Council on its own. They are not on a stand-alone basis, they are not on their own. Their operation is unnecessary. I think that we are talking about two important bodies and organisations for which the possibility of self-management must be given. Very briefly, about three more things, about three civil society organisations. The Trianon Museum Foundation is scheduled for HUF 100 million, which we would like to raise to HUF 150 million. On the one hand, it is because it is a unique, missing mission that this institution is doing, and on the other hand, I am returning to what I just said - the 100th anniversary of Trianon. I think it would be good if we could take as many children as possible from schools in Hungary. We need a Hungarian historical film foundation, I think, and I don't want to go into it now, because I don't have time to see how low the production of historical films is in Hungary. We have passed several anniversaries, hundreds of years of important, significant anniversaries, in recent years, about which films could have been created, but were not born. This is also the Pongrátz Gergely 56 Public Benefit Foundation, whose support is recommended. In the former home of Gergely Pongrátz, Kiskunmajsa, the museum he created operates. And let me also present a proposal for a constituency in one sentence. This is an old deficiency and a problem affecting the people of Zuglós in their daily lives. This is that at the intersection of Szeged Road and Teleki Blanka Road, the construction of an overpass has been virtually absent since the change of regime. Since then, many have promised to do so. We would like this to be a source, because for the people of Zuglós, from the point of view of traffic in Zuglós, overcrowding, the people in the constituency feel that this is an important issue. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-18-136	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in two minutes. [[18.50]]
u2017-05-18-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I am very sorry that Congresswoman Molnár has left because I wanted to answer her, but given the house rules, I can only do so a little later. The Congresswoman has been very personal, so I thought I might add a few thoughts to her comments. After all, we need a more modest attitude when he speaks, although it may be necessary to protect the family trap or his cashier function there in Sopron. He was talking about how we don't understand budget numbers. Well, Congresswoman, perhaps you'll read it in the minutes someday. I'm an economist. She's probably a doctor, if I'm right, who hasn't practiced in this profession since 96. So when it comes to how to interpret budget figures, I think it's more him who's behind. In particular, modesty would be justified by the fact that he became the director of the hospital without complying with any legal requirements when he was appointed in Sopron. In any case, his comment showed that Canaan is in Hungary with regard to the health budget. I'd like to remind you of a small parliamentary newsletter, called "The Info Note - Inpatient Care." I'd like to read you a few thoughts. According to the waiting list register in Hungary, 27 300 patients are waiting for surgery. According to the data of the Hungarian State Treasury, on 31 March 2017 HUF 23 billion of debt accumulated at the health institutions. In the context of the lack of doctors and nurses, the SAO concluded in an internal study that there are more than 70 percent of the specialists and professionals who do not allow them to leave. According to some statistics, 2-3 thousand doctors and 4-5 thousand nurses are missing from sick beds. According to the latest data from the KSH, the share of expenditure from the government, municipal and health insurance fund, which represents public expenditure, was virtually unchanged between 10 and 15 per cent and around 67 per cent of the total cost of health care. One more: the budget spends 5 per cent of GDP on health funding, while the EU average is 8 per cent. So you don't have to do such a big prognosis here. They've taken 400 billion out of health care. That's a lot to put back. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-18-138	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai as a normal comment.
u2017-05-18-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pity that Attila Mesterházy did not mention the data that previously related to waiting lists, for example, between 2002 and 2010, as these figures were once again this big in terms of waiting lists. I think that taking the number on which we improved is cutting the waiting lists by half and not telling you what the hospital waiting list was in your time is not fair. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Turning back to the budget, I would like to address the budget's family policy expenditure and its chapters in my contribution. The most important objective of Fidesz is to build a family-friendly country. Building a family-friendly country requires not only a family-friendly approach, but also family-friendly laws and family-friendly budgets. The general justification of the bill on the 2018 budget also states that the government's aim is to make Hungary a family-friendly country. The 2018 budget will give further support to families and will take further steps towards full employment. Next year's budget will ensure that there will be significantly more money left over by families in 2018. In this way, we will spend some 1900 billion forints next year, about 8 percent more than this year, about 140 billion forints more than this year, and nearly twice as much money compared to 2010. This represents an equivalent of 4.7 per cent of GDP this year, which is at the same time nearly one-third above the 2010 level; this was 3.6 per cent at the time. Compared to the 2010 budget expenditure, we spend HUF 303,4 billion and 56,8 percent more on financial family support and family benefits in 2018. Let us look at the amounts that will be included in next year's budget on this issue. The minimum wage increase continues, after the 15 percent increase this year, the minimum wage will increase by an additional 8 percent in 2018, which will also affect the amount of the child, which will continue to increase in 2018, with a gross HUF 193 200 and a net amount of HUF 144 900. Ladies and gentlemen, The second priority concerns the system of family tax incentives. In 2018, the third stage of increasing the family tax relief until 2019 will be implemented. In the case of families with two children, the monthly tax allowance will increase from 2018 to HUF 17.5 thousand per child, i.e. the income of families with two children will increase by HUF 60,000 per year compared to 2017. From 2016 onwards, we will gradually double the number of family benefits that can be applied by families raising two children in four years. In 2016 the amount of the monthly tax benefit increased from HUF 10 000 to HUF 12 500 in 2017, to HUF 15 000 in 2017. The third stage of this is that which is guaranteed in the draft budget for next year. Here's the home-building program. With the home creation programme, we want to continue to strengthen families. More resources will be available for this in 2018, HUF 226 billion. Within the framework of the family home creation discount, families with three or more children, who build or buy new apartments, can use a 3-percent fixed rate housing loan. In order to improve the housing situation, the VAT rate for real estate sales has been reduced to 5 per cent and the tax refund subsidy for self-built persons. This remains unchanged and is planned for the budget. The first spouses introduced by Fidesz and KDNP continue to benefit, and their budget coverage can be found in the draft budget for 2018. This amount is available regardless of the family discount from 2017, i.e. all newlyweds concerned will benefit for two years, including those who have a child in the meantime. The number of marriages increased by nearly one and a half times in 2010 and has not been seen since 2002. All this is welcome news, welcome indicators. We hope that this value will continue to improve. In 2018, kindergarten care will receive budget support of nearly HUF 37 billion. It's a record grant. While this support was HUF 11.1 billion in 2010, it was HUF 16.5 billion in 2017. The amount of free children's meals - this is the next topic on which we spend an increasing amount of money each year in the budget - this year's record is increasing from 74 billion to 79.3 billion forints in 2018. In particular, institutional resources, i.e. for children's meals during the academic year, increase from HUF 67.2 billion to HUF 72.6 billion, i.e. by more than 8 percent and by nearly two and a half times compared to 2010, while for the holiday meals of children in need, we spend HUF 6.7 billion, which is close to three times the year 2010. [[19.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Many of the amounts spent on family support could be mentioned among the budget items. Let me now say a few words about the chapter on free textbook provision. In the case of free textbooks, families will save thousands more. From the 2017-18 academic year, the free textbook supply will be extended to all primary school students, to senior students, up to the 5-8th grade, and to the first grade of high school. With this free textbook, the number of people receiving an additional 285 thousand is up to 1 million to 18 thousand. Thus, 85 percent of students will be free of charge in the following year. I believe that, for example, free textbooks should not only be talked about, but also be based and guaranteed in legislation and in the budget. Compared to previous governments, we have not only talked about these increases, but we have also implemented them. I think it's a huge achievement that 85 percent of students can get their textbooks free of charge from the next year. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the chapters of the budget that I have just mentioned, which concern family support, children, kindergarten, kindergarten care and schools and family budgets, in any case. I would also ask you that, if you were to debate these numbers, you will certainly be challenged by some of the opposition's representatives, not to make eight years, but to look a little backwards. Look at and compare in your comments how much you provided and what circle the former government and before and before. That's what we did. In our comments, I also compared these figures with our previous government, where we were able to show an increase year after year. I ask critics to always look back on one or two or three more cycles, and from that perspective, that is the starting point. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to family policy preferences, family taxation and all the packages that are earmarked for support for families and children in the budget, I would ask you to support the proposed legislation. After all, these steps are essential for the development of a family-friendly country together. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-18-140	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. With all due respect, I would like to welcome the fellow Members of Parliament, the Secretary of State, and give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-05-18-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I wouldn't argue with some of the first sentences of Congress. You didn't hear what Mrs Molnár was talking about, so the debate would be uneven, because you weren't here, and I was. I'd move past that. I would like to repeat one or two points because, at the beginning of the debate, they were often said as criticism, but I do not see that they have fallen on fertile ground. After all, there have been several fidesz comments today, in the context of such a production conference, which were just opposite the facts and the problems that this budget will not solve, while these issues should be given much more attention. And perhaps these are the issues in which a national consensus would also have a place, because the budget is one of the most important laws that would help to remedy certain social, economic and other problems most effectively, even if we knew that there was no budget for the country that the opposition would have accepted. But beyond this political criticism and debate, perhaps it makes sense to listen to each other's opinions. Allow me, Mr. Secretary, I know that you yourself have criticized what I said, but I would like to repeat them, in case we understand each other better. Earlier, one of my fellow Members from Fidesz spoke about the fact that Hungary's competitiveness has improved significantly in the last year. Well, according to the latest report of the World Economic Forum, Hungary has made six places worse and is 69th. We believe that Hungary's competitiveness has not improved, but has deteriorated in recent years. I dare say this so firmly because the Minister of the Ministry, Mihály Varga, expressed many self-critical thoughts at his annual hearing about what needs to be improved, what needs to be done beyond the many fantastic successes that the government has achieved. But one of these areas, which he expressed as criticism, was the area of competitiveness, that Hungary does not perform well here, that I quote the fidesz slogan, and that there is more to be done in this area. At the time, Minister, he also said that all sorts of, I don't know, White Papers or some sort of series of measures would be prepared by the Competitiveness Council. If I understand today's press reports correctly, Minister, at the end of this discussion, he spoke about the fact that some action plan had been put in place. I was only in the press to look into the measures proposed by the Council and the Ministry. I think there is still something to be done there, even if there is much to be done that will certainly serve the development of Hungarian competitiveness. After all, let me highlight three major points, which have a significant impact on Hungarian competitiveness. This is a lack of legal certainty, so there is no significant or solid legal certainty based on the assessment of the foreign or domestic business sector in Hungary. For in many cases economic operators, like a sector, are faced with the fact that if a fidesz oligarch likes a particular sector or a particular business opportunity, the fidesz majority is able to amend the law so that they can ingeste this sector if necessary. So in Hungarian, not only would there be legal certainty, but there is abuse of rights. They simply use their majority in Parliament as a weapon to strengthen certain economic operators so that those Fidesz backup people who are trying to consolidate or strengthen the power of Viktor Orbán and the government can make the most of their profits. The other is that there is a high percentage of corruption. Hungary is also making different lists worse every year. You don't have to look at international lists, you just have to read the news or watch what's happening in the country. It can be seen that in many cases public procurement is avoided, it is clear in advance who will start and who will win at a public procurement. I understand that everyone always says that, of course, we should press charges, and no one at the Public Procurement Committee complained about this, that or that tender. This is also due to the policy that you are pursuing, which is a policy of intimidation. This is about the fact that the players in the economy don't dare to face the Fidesz majority because they think they're gonna go after it themselves. In Hungarian, the lack of legal certainty, the high rate of corruption will certainly impair Hungary's competitiveness, and the political risk is significant for these reasons. So the political risk in Hungary is not at the level of a European state, as these unpredictable political decisions are very difficult to follow with medium- or long-term economic planning. [[19.10]] And I am thinking not only about tax laws, but also about a lot of other legislation that the government is able to change from one moment to the next, thus endangering either the profitability or the viability of sectors or certain companies. Therefore, I am saying that it would be worthwhile to have a sound professional debate on competitiveness, in which it would certainly make sense to seek a national minimum or some kind of consensus, and perhaps to find a minimum compromise. The second is that here you have been constantly, in today's debate, nothing more than constantly comparing the current period after 2014 with the period between 2006 and 2010. The only reason I'm surprised at this is because on one side we hear from all the Fidesz politicians how much trouble the country was before 2010, how bad the budget was, how many problems were, and the rest, how can a budget in such a difficult situation be compared to a budget operating under much more favourable international financial conditions? On the other hand, if I look at it professionally, the budget of a country with a global economic crisis cannot be compared to the budget of a country in economic activity. Don't get me wrong, I'm not accusing you, it's not a rating, it's a fact. If there was an economic crisis in Hungary in 2008-9-10, then, of course, the government had to take different types of measures and put the budget together differently than in the case of the 2018 budget. It is also possible to say that there are a lot of things that the government has done well in the past, and I would just like to refer to the fact that the basis of the comparison simply does not hold up, because the Hungarian economy had to withstand or manage the crisis in completely different international economic circumstances. The Secretary of State also said at some point, if I remember correctly, in one of his replies that Hungary was unable to borrow from the financial markets, and then I tried to shout rudely that Germany did not receive any of these times either, so not only Hungary did not receive any credit, there were many other countries that did not get any credit. In English, it is not about a unique state, but about the fact that it is more difficult to solve these tasks in the midst of an international economic crisis. The other one. They are constantly talking about an independent, unique Hungarian road, a Hungarian success story, which is unique in the European Union. You always wonder what makes you single. If we take a different basis for comparison and look a little outside the walls of Parliament, then we see that if we compare Hungarian economic data to other countries in the region, then perhaps this Hungarian success is not so bright or glamorous, because we see that this year, last year and even next year, there are many countries that perform better than Hungary. This, of course, makes us happy if the GDP growth in Hungary is as high as possible, just to say that it is unique, unique and that the world should actually copy us and that Matolcsy's unorthodox economic policy is excessive, as Hungary's GDP has increased more slowly in the past period than the GDP of the neighbouring countries, so Hungary is constantly lagging behind the countries of the region. In 2015-16 the economies of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania and Slovakia also developed at a faster pace than the Hungarian economy. The third one. The percentage of public debt is falling more and more slowly, and that is why we say that next year's budget is an election budget, because we did not see that the budget for . 17 would have been made in this way, for example, we did not see that the government has so far set the deficit target, the public debt target in an interesting way in the year of the election, even if it is still a little more looser, even if it is to be acknowledged that these trends will not knock out the guarantee anywhere, because it does not fully comply with some Hungarian legislation or even the Fundamental Law or the Stability Act, but it is a fact and true that it is still in some respect within the parameters that the European Union feels it is desirable. However, this will still be an election budget, because, as I have just said, the percentage rate of public debt is decreasing more slowly, while the amount of it increased by almost 50 percent from HUF 20 thousand billion in 2010 to 2018, and the previous deficit could only be reduced to 3 percent by a one-off large take-off of private pension funds. Then the fourth is such an important point that poverty has increased in Hungary. I understand that here in every budget line they say that there is more money, more money, but if we look at welfare expenditure, then welfare expenditure is reduced overall in terms of GDP, so in Hungarian - and this is not what we claim, this fact has been published in every news - this means that not only would welfare expenditure increase, which we would like to and should interpret in the systemic perspective for the entire Hungarian society, but also that welfare expenditure is decreasing in relation to GDP in the Hungarian budget in 2018. So this means that growth is not, in our view, properly distributed by the next year's budget. We believe that the benefits of growth must be understood throughout society, not just by the privileged few. I understand that you always select a special type of family, a special topic where statistics stand the test, and the fact is true, but there are families with not only two parents, two salaries, two children in Hungary, but also the concept of family in Hungary is more colorful. Therefore, I must say that there are other grounds for approach to this. Not to mention that the difference between the poorest and the richest upper and lower tenth is eight times today in Hungary. This was the last time, to my knowledge, in a year or two after the change of regime, and this worsening trend is showing an ever faster pace. So we cannot narrow down the social income scissors in Hungarian, which would be desirable for people to really live better in Hungary, and on the basis of a more recent research, 36 percent of Hungarians already live below the minimum living amount, which is also an extremely high number. That is why we say that your social policy measures are much more in the interests of the privileged few or the richer, behind which there must be an election mathematics and consideration. You think that it is these social groups that are more mobile, who, if any, enrich the Fidesz electoral camp, and we say that there are not only party political aspects in a social policy, but also only national aspects and social interests. So this means that these measures should indeed be taken for society as a whole, and not for this perverted social policy, which is about that if the privileged few or the wealthy are in an even better way, then this prosperity will flow down to the lower layers of society in an existential sense. Such a social policy does not work anywhere in the world, it is certainly for the purpose of increasing inequalities, it is for the purpose of breaking up Hungarian society more in two or more directions. It can be seen that there is not only a migration from Hungary, so there is not only a departure abroad in the hope of a better life, in many cases for existential reasons, but also migration within the country, which shows that people are going from Eastern Hungary to Western Hungary, and people are migrating from the perspective of a better life. I think Sopron's population has increased by 15,000 in recent years, as I recall, because people are going from East Hungary. In Hungarian, the potential for social mobility is limited, and this shows that society is both socially and geographically fragmented, and that this current budget is certainly not a solution to reducing these differences and these inequalities. The other is that today there has been a lot of talk about earnings, salaries, average earnings. Only in order to be a different measurement or other benchmark than what you use: Hungary is the last of the V4 countries in terms of average earnings. I thought we were comparing it to the V4 countries, because in foreign policy I hear nothing else - I am also a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs - but how we ourselves, how we compare it and how we fit it into the V4. I thought we'd take a look at this comparison. [[19.20]] So, in Hungarian, Hungary is the last of the V4 countries in terms of average earnings. I note only as a small colour that the salary of Hungarian diplomats is also the lowest of the V4 countries. The purchasing power of the minimum wage reached the 2010 level only last year. That's how you say we're talking about a wasted six years. And it was quite funny to listen to several speeches today that the last eight years, because the last eight years are slowly on you. Therefore, all criticisms expressed by the opposition are now about what opportunities, opportunities have been missed in your last eight years, or what bad government decisions have been made, which will still have an impact on Hungary, the Hungarian nation, or even negative effects on the future. We've been saying for years that we need a raise. You guys kept sweeping this thing off the table. As I recall, we started a campaign three years ago, campaigning for wage increases in Hungary. That didn't exactly touch your threshold. Nor is it that for at least four years now, I don't know, the MSZP has proposed to the government, and we have also made a number of proposals in Parliament that, for example, the VAT on basic foodstuffs should be reduced in terms of VAT reduction. Moreover, the scope of basic food should be extended, since 27 percent VAT is the highest VAT rate in the European Union. VAT is also called the tax of the poor, so in Hungarian, such a high VAT rate affects the smaller Hungarian families extremely hard and uncomfortable. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to reduce the VAT on these basic foods. Perhaps not as ingeniously as the government does, but rather, in cooperation with professional organisations, defining a relatively wider circle to do so. Jobbik also has similar initiatives, where I understand correctly, related to family, education, child rearing. I think this is an interesting and good proposal, which would also be worth considering for the government, even if this results in a short-term loss of budget revenue, but in the medium to long term it will certainly be compensated. The government probably knows that, because that's why he's become the same stealthist and a step-by-step tax reduction. The tax burden on people living on wages, in particular minimum wage and guaranteed minimum wage, will not be reduced either. Therefore, even if I look at the comparison between the EU and the OECD region, it will continue to be among the highest. This is also part of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. Let me say one more point: the forint is 17 percent weaker than it was in 2010. I understand, I have heard Mr Matolcsy's vision of how a €350 euro would be a good exchange rate for the euro. It might be good for him, but then for no one else in Hungary who lives here. In addition, the various economic analysts and the main players of the economy may have succeeded in this, and they could explain to him that even the economy would not benefit from such a weak forint exchange rate. The Hungarian economy, we see, is essentially kept alive by EU funds. It is apparent that without EU funds, the Hungarian economy could almost not have grown in recent years. It is also apparent that EU funds now have a restrictive effect, as companies do not invest or take out loans, since they are calculated to solve their various problems with non-refundable EU funds, who have the opportunity to do so because of their political relations. This certainly does not prepare Hungarian companies for the competitive situation when EU funds may no longer have such an magnitude. After 2022, this support structure will certainly be reorganized, and we have to assume that Hungary will have fewer resources for economic recovery. I have to say that the government is not doing anything to prepare Hungarian companies for the period after EU funds. The good news is, in any case, that I want to devote 60% of EU funds to economic recovery or economic recovery, but it doesn't matter how they do it, and how they can take concrete action beyond the slogans. Let me bring you an investment, Mr. Secretary, just because I've read this in the last few days and it's been in Parliament. This is the Belgrade-Budapest railway line. The Prime Minister was in China and said that this was an indispensable investment for us, or, if I remember correctly, perhaps Mr Kósa also said that it would be a profitable investment. Besides him, no one's likely to say it's a profitable investment. It's an investment that will never pay off. Moreover, it serves only and exclusively Chinese interests, economic and political, strategic interests. This would not necessarily be a problem, but the fact that Hungarian taxpayers will have to pay for this, while the Chinese party does not guarantee that this will be loaded with goods. From the point of view of passenger traffic - although not yet fully tracked, but clearly - it will not complicate a sweeping passenger traffic. It is also strange, and the Minister of State of the Ministry could not answer that during the debate, who would build this railway line. After all, the news may be misinterpreted, but it can be concluded that Chinese entrepreneurs will build this in Hungary with the Chinese government's money and credit. This is when you think that the national economic policy, which you refer to so many times, is where it would appear, because the aim would be for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to connect to these projects as suppliers, and not to be Hungarian suppliers just like many, if I remember correctly, automotive companies, because the supplier is Hungarian because the company from outside Germany, who delivers there, joins a Hungarian company. In Hungarian, it is more of a statistical compliance to the different, I don't know, 30% Hungarian supplier rate, not real, actual delivery. It would also be worth thinking and moving forward with certainty that they should be real Hungarian-owned companies in the long term. In English, European Union funds are certainly a huge opportunity today, but due to the restrictive effect they can also cause a serious competitive disadvantage later on. When I asked the Minister about this at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, he said that he said that the Hungarian companies are already prepared for this today and are sufficiently competitive to compensate for this hiatus. I think that Minister is too optimistic to be polite. I do not believe that this is true today, unfortunately, for Hungarian economic operators, or I would say that it is certainly not true for everyone, but for only a few companies. Then what I would like to say in the debate is that the public burdens measured in proportion to GDP have increased from 37.5 per cent to 39 per cent since 2010. In our view, the tax system has changed in terms of the interests of the rich, and the single-key tax system is certainly only a real step forward for those with higher salaries, those who are above average pay. The people employed under average income, and there are relatively many of them in the countryside in Hungary, are much more problematic and difficult. That is why we have said that it is also worth changing, and that a much fairer tax system should be created in Hungary, because this would certainly serve the national interest. That is all I wanted to say for the time being, and then, I am sure, during the detailed debate, there are still many arguments to be put forward, but overall, as today's opposition representatives have seen from our group, we have a number of critical comments. There are certainly some critical comments which also support the debate, but nevertheless, they may be worth considering, because on the part of opposition representatives, I think that there have been rather constructive proposals for the current budget. [[19.30]] We will also present proposals for amending the budget ourselves. We will focus on three main areas: one of them is the social area, because in recent years there has been a significant withdrawal of funds in this area. The second is education, where there is also a serious lack of resources for those working in that area and therefore for Hungarian families. The third is the area of health, where - let me repeat with what I started - we do not share the optimism that Dr. Ágnes Molnár presented here in Parliament, based on which almost Canaan is working in Hungarian health care, and in fact it is almost a pleasure to go to the hospital, because there is a service and there is such fantastic opportunities for budget increases that almost no problems can be encountered. So in Hungarian: there are no waiting lists, there is no need to bring medicine in, there is no problem with catering, toilet paper and many other devices, and if there are so many sources, the overload of workers in these sectors can only be an urban legend. And then, of course, it is difficult to understand why workers in these sectors go abroad, especially from the social sector or from the health sector. So in Hungarian: we are trying to make this budget a fairer budget, because we believe that the benefits of growth must be distributed fairly in Hungarian society, not only and exclusively on the basis of party political interests. That is why we have labeled this budget by political slogans so that it is a budget of injustice and corruption, because it seems that the Hungarian budget will certainly continue to benefit from the Mészáros Lőrincek. Indeed, I also think that at the university where I and Mr. Secretary of State were to teach Lőrinc Mészáros, because this knowledge of management, this ability should certainly be passed on to the economists of the future, because if someone's assets can grow by HUF 100 billion in a mere year, and according to his own statement, the Mayor, as I saw in a TV interview, said that the increase in his wealth is greater than that of Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, because he may be smarter than he is. I wouldn't have thought of that argument, but I'm sure there's something to be done about corruption in the coming years. But the simplest and best solution to these problems will be that the government will be replaced by the Hungarian people in 2018, and that is why this budget is not only the budget of injustice and not only the budget of corruption, but also the last budget submitted by the Fidesz government. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2017-05-18-142	Thank you very much, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai.
u2017-05-18-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Let me begin with my opinion that we should leave the voters to trust the Fidesz-KDNP government. Let the voters compare two eight-year periods. They can compare not only the overall real economic figures, but also what they could achieve in their own lives between 2002-2010 and 2010-2018, in addition to the evolution of these real economic figures. Allow me to quote you, Congressman. He said the words didn't fall on fertile soil. I have the same feeling, because Mr President has mentioned a number of topics that we have said many and many times over the last two days. One of Mr President's points concerns macroeconomic figures, what drives the growth of the economy, what international economic activity is being achieved today, and whether the current growth of around 4 percent is comparable to what was in 2008-2009. On the one hand, I must say that from 2002 to 2007, the European Union was characterised by a very strong economic activity, which is greater than what is now characteristic of the European Union's economy. So if we say that there was an economic crisis in 2008-2009, that's true, but let's also say that between 2002 and 2007, it was a bigger economic activity than it is now. This is again confirmed by Eurostat and other international bodies. Let us also add to the picture that, after 2010, the economy of the European Union as a whole was shrinking in 2012, and this had an impact on the Hungarian economy. The performance of the Hungarian economy also decreased slightly in 2012, just because it was a time when the European Union did not come out of the crisis and we also see that many countries in Europe have not yet recovered from this crisis. To mention all this, I think that the numbers speak for themselves as regards the competitiveness of the economy. The rate at which the economy is expanding, according to the European Commission, that we are among the countries with the largest growth this year, is the third lowest in the 28 Member States that our current account shows a very significant amount of activity, which shows that our economy is now more competitive than it was before. This does not mean that we have no task in the area of competitiveness. This does not mean that we should not address where we can move forward from the ranking of competitiveness in the World Economic Forum and where we disagree with the proposal or recommendation of that organisation. There are a number of areas where we can see what we have to do, which is why, on the basis of a proposal from the Competitiveness Council, the government has submitted several legislative amendments to the Honourable Parliament, which are on the table of Parliament. I am thinking here about redefining the construction code, renewing the regulation of access to utilities or the tasks related to the registration of companies, the creation of new companies. These are all items where, if the Parliament accepts the Government's proposal, we may well be able to move forward in the competitiveness ranking mentioned by Mr Attila Mesterházy. Whether EU funds drive the Hungarian economy or not is another long topic, let me say one sentence. If that were the case, Greece would soar and Germany, a significant net contributor, would be in a very bad economic situation. As far as corruption is concerned, I agree that corruption is unacceptable regardless of party status. We all know that. As Congressman said, we all read newspapers and read about metro 4 recently, a report on the EMIR system; I think that everyone can judge whether corruption is acceptable or not, regardless of party standing. It's not acceptable, it's not a question. Political risks, stability. Allow me to highlight, as a virtue and merit, the political stability that marked Hungary after 2010. This is precisely the political stability and it was the two-thirds majority that needed a new Fundamental Law to create a law on Hungary's economic stability, the law on local authorities and many other laws that needed to be able to report on the current results. It was precisely the predictability and stability that was strengthened by the political support provided by the Fundamental Law that it was not possible to return to the path Hungary took after 2002, when the government debt continued to rise. This is exactly the political stability that needed to be included in the Fundamental Law by a two-thirds majority is the provision that the current government must draw up and implement a budget that will result in a reduction in public debt. So I think that, thanks to the legislation, the main macroeconomic figures must also be in line with the budget bill, and I am pleased that the debate on the figures is, in a way, only about whether the structural balance, which is an extremely complicated item, is in line with EU rules or not. I do not bother the honourable Members at this late hour with discussing the structural balance, and I do not think that, apart from a narrow economics layer, people know what this structural balance means. They know what the lack of public finances means: the gap between the government's expenditure and revenue; they also know the cost of financing this gap and the public debt. Thank God, it seems that the cost of financing public debt for all of us taxpayers is getting smaller. In this overall macroeconomic context, the question is whether individuals have been able to move forward in their own lives. The data in front of me, again not government, but Eurostat, show that all social groups, the lower-income groups, have also seen significant progress after 2010. [[19.40]] I have already quoted today, in today's debate, how the real value of the net income of minimum wage earners changed after 2010. Not only the three or more children, not only the two children, but also the children without children, have increased their incomes. [[Sándor Burány: Not until 2016.]] Real value-- Congressman, then allow me to tell you. For the 2017-18 figures, we are currently looking at prognosis, since you do not have any facts, but let me say, comparing data over two periods. The real value of the net income of minimum wage earners who do not have children has been experiencing an increase of 5.8 percent between 2002 and 2010, and between 2010 and 18 if the Honourable Parliament adopts the Government's motion, the increase is 30.1 percent. For single children, the real change in the net income of minimum wage earners is -2 per cent 2002-2010, 44.3 per cent between 2010-18. In the case of two children between 2002-2010 -8.7 per cent and between 2010-18, 79.7 per cent. Between 2002 and 2010 -7,6 per cent for three or more children, and between 2010-18, 90.3 per cent. These figures show that everyone has been able to make one step forward in their lives. We use that term a lot, and you can see it here. Families where parents live from work and raise more children also feel responsible for the survival of the nation, the greater their income, the more children they have taken on. This is undoubtedly the direction of the government's economic policy. But if we are talking about what is expected in the longer term in the healthcare system, what is expected in the pension system, then we also need to talk about the fact that it is vital, in an economic sense, not only for the survival of the nation, to have children. And, yes, there must be a limit between the fact that there are countries who are openly talking about the need to carry out migration, because otherwise the country is unsustainable. We know that's the case. The government has chosen a different path. It sets economic policy in this direction, which is also the direction of next year's budget bill. In addition to the minimum wage, let me mention that Congressman Mesterházy said that there is a stealth VAT reduction. I don't find that stealthy. If we look at the VAT reductions for which products and to what extent, I think that this was a significant reduction. If you look at consumer baskets, it is the very layers of people who buy more food in their consumer basket. I think that the positive real economic figures will also allow us to count on surpluses in these areas, in the area of education and health. Here again, I have to deny the opinions that say "refunds." It wasn't like that. There was a year when the resources of the sector increased to a lesser extent than the growth of the economy. But I think that this is a positive thing, because it means that the expansion of the economy has been such that it has created the opportunity to increase the resources of the sector in question, and it has also created the opportunity to reduce public debt by keeping the budget low. On this basis, I therefore believe that some of the basic assumptions made by the opposition parties can be refuted on the basis of the figures, and I think that if the figures show that the government and the country are basically moving in the right direction, then we can decide to maintain the direction, the honourable Parliament can vote calmly on next year's budget bill. Thank you very much. [[Mónika Dunai and Róbert Zsigó applaud.]]
u2017-05-18-144	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Banai. Preliminary speaker Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President, Member. [[Sándor Burány: I applied for two minutes. It's gonna be a new round.]] The two minutes will take place after that. It wasn't the end of the circle. Mr. Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2017-05-18-145	[[To Sándor Burány:]] You'll be the new round. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pity that there is no time to argue with Mr. Secretary of State particularly for a long time about the data he has told me, but I am already beginning to think that these beautiful figures, especially those of low-income earners, are very well cosmeticated. I am sure that instead of 28 500 HUF social assistance, the HUF 47,000 community service programme was introduced, which actually means a serious increase, and that will soon distort the data that would mean reality. And I also missed your speech, although at the end of the day you mentioned this at some level, that social renewal is a fundamental condition for competitiveness, and we are exactly here in a huge problem: health, education, demographics, emigration is all reducing our competitiveness, and to an enormous extent. That's why we can't get ahead of ourselves, but that's what I wanted to say, because that's not what I wanted to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me first quote a few thoughts from the Minister's expozee and try to shed light on it in reality. This is what Mr Mihály Varga said: "The 2018 budget is rightly called the budget of the people living in the labour market, the continuing tax reduction, the promotion of broadening family policy measures, wage-raising programmes and investment, all in order for everyone to take a step forward in their own lives next year. Next year, we will be spending more on supporting families and children, creating jobs and keeping the workforce and continuing careers. I would also like to point out that you also said that to preserve the real value of pensions. Undoubtedly, it is a fact that family tax relief is increasing. It is only in design that the government ignores the fact that small - income families, who are growing in numbers - because workers' poverty is growing steadily, cannot avail themselves of full tax relief. On the other hand, we are about to see that the family allowance is not going to grow. Children's care is not increased. The care fee remains undeservingly low, and there is no more money for home care. It would be an important social policy step for the newly born generations to have a family allowance of three children, but a much larger family allowance of 2-3 times higher than today, while the support for the birth of further children could be taken over by the family tax relief for already working income. Thus, families with lower earnings, but also those with higher earnings, I should add, would be better off in the coming period. We can indeed call this budget the budget of those who live from work when we still do not see the wage increase in the social sector in it, even though in 2010 Viktor Orbán promised in the government programme that he would immediately settle the wages of workers in child protection and in the social field. The latest figures for 2017 also show that, in the context of the minimum wage increase, i.e. that many have reached the minimum wage in this area, the income of workers in this area remains facially low. For the seventh year, 93,000 social workers have abused their conscientious work and patience. We can call this budget really the budget of the people who work, when right now the paramedics are gonna go out on the street because they lied to their faces again. And here are some of the many things that continue to wait for you, even though it is desperately needed. The lack of child psychiatric care remains a major problem. Year after year, we move to regroup resources, to solve this problem, because there is a huge gap in this area. You, by the way, acknowledge every year that there is indeed a big problem, and every year nothing happens in this area. We also propose, year after year, the launch of the boarding school system, which you are sweeping off the table year after year, even though the causes of the failures in the PISA survey clearly support Jobbik's position. [[19.50]] The pension issue remains to be resolved. The abolition of the early retirement pension system, which is unique in Europe, is on your conscience. In many professions, men have been led to death and literally disability for years, when they think that at 65 years of age, a firefighter can be rushed up to the tenth floor with 30 kg equipment to put out fire and save life, or the paramedic can be brought down from the fourth floor on a gurney, the 65 - year - old paramedic, the 120 - pound patient. It's just that there's a fidesz old congressman who'd set an example of how he can do it himself. This inhumanity, which the Fidesz continues to allow against certain professions, is amazing, and it tolerates the need for a multitude of people to live and become crippled in these areas. Of course, men's retirement age, the possibility of retirement after 40 years of employment, is not included in the budget either. And where is the solution to the biggest problem, because, thanks to the low incomes over the last 27 years, there is a massive rise in pensioner poverty or the treatment of poverty in old age? Where is the problem of 60 thousand HUF pension-worthy nurses, social workers and many other professions after 40 years of employment? Who can make a living on a pension of 60,000 forints, I ask you nicely? Ladies and gentlemen, Where is the expansion of nursing homes? The current government is far, far behind. Fact and truth, I don't want to point out for the last 8 years either, but the fact is that 10,000 seats were created at the time, but in recent years this is only a fraction, while 30,000 older people are waiting for an elderly home in Hungary. I have tabled more than 300 amendments, some of which are professional and some are proposals that have come to me from all over the country, most of which are about developments that have failed since the change of regime. While you are moving out of the country with stone, there are settlements where driving by car is almost life-threatening, even closing roads for long, long months. There are places where the kindergarten, the doctor's office, should be completely renovated. The destruction and depopulation of the countryside is tragic because they refuse to help small and medium-sized economies in the villages, but instead, we know we have those oligarchs who can build the vast estate system in the settlements where they can only work for one or two people in addition to large-scale monoculture production. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to outline an apocalyptic vision, but at the moment, the settlements of 10 percent of the country are in which every second, third house is collapsed, collapsed! No more than 20 years old, and 60 percent of the settlements of Hungary will look like this 10 percent, every second and third house will be collapsing in these villages. This is the current demographic and economic situation in Hungary and the countryside. Look around, wander around the country. I think many of you can see that if you look around a little - and unfortunately, this budget does not provide a solution at all, there is no sign of this. I'm not even talking about it anymore, because I don't even have time to hear the government chant so many times, and all the countries of Central Europe will leave us. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , The salaries in Bucharest are already higher than in Budapest. Thank you so much for creating such a beautiful economic policy. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-146	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Congressman. No other speakers indicated... [[For signal:]] I mean, I'm sorry. For two minutes, Mr. Tamás Burány has the floor. [[Interjections: Alexander. Sándor Burány: Sándor.]] Sándor Burány, I'm sorry.
u2017-05-18-147	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. It's the middle of the night, and the concentration is fading, of course. I'm going to make a few brief responses. Of course, in a two-minute period, I cannot respond to all the statements made by Secretary of State Banai, but let me draw attention to some of his factual errors. First of all, the amendment of the Fundamental Law has nothing to do with the stability of the economy, Mr Secretary of State, so much that you had to change the debt indicator because you couldn't keep it. Of course, it is easy to create stability by constantly following life with the laws. Therefore, it was not so that it was a Fundamental Law and it ensured the development of debt indicators; on the contrary, they could not comply with it, so it was necessary to change the granite-solid Fundamental Law. The amendment to the municipal law has absolutely nothing to do with economic stability. The fact that you changed the electoral rules on the composition of the general assembly in the capital has changed in the municipal law, while providing a fidesz majority compared to the previous electoral system in the general assembly in the capital, but this has absolutely nothing to do with economic stability. Your minimum wage data are quite simply flawed. If we look at the net minimum wage before the change in government in 2010 and then look at its annual development and correct it with inflation, there are no other figures, Mr Secretary of State, there have been several studies on this. Look at their own miscalculations if they have reached the opposite outcome. It is quite simply that in 2016, the real value of the minimum wage exceeded the real value of the 2010 minimum wage, the net minimum wage. I am also talking about the childless ones, although this is inaccurate, because who, let's say, has three adult children and is not entitled to children's discounts, but is looking for minimum wage, is not childless, but of course he cannot avail himself of the discounts. And lastly, in 2012 there was a solid economic activity in Europe, there was a recession in Hungary due to the introduction of a single-key tax, and it reduced domestic demand to such an extent. [[For signal:]] That's right, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-18-148	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Burány. I give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Banai.
u2017-05-18-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr Sándor Burány knows economic matters, and if he puts the legislation next to his knowledge in recent years, he will see that the rule laid down in the Fundamental Law is that the government at all must draw up and implement a budget that will lead to a reduction in public debt until the debt reaches 50 per cent. [[Erik Bánki: That's right. Exactly.]] The Fundamental Law provided for the creation of a Fiscal Council that could veto in Europe, but I would add, in a unique way in the world. If the Fiscal Council considers that the rule laid down in the Fundamental Law is not fulfilled, it may veto. There is no other budgetary council with such a right in the world. What you remembered, Congressman, is another law, an amendment to the Stability Act. This was done on one occasion, determining the rate at which the public debt should be reduced. However, this does not affect the fact that the Fundamental Law provides for a reduction in debt by two thirds. Congressman, allow me to say that every year I have consulted with the credit rating agencies, the investors; there was a very serious argument in the government's hands, yes, Congressman, that we could reduce the deficit, and no one believed that. The fact that we were able to put down the Fundamental Law was a very serious credibility step. Local tax law, local government law: I highlighted it because we can only talk about the stability of public finances if we can also ensure the stability of the different subsystems. You know exactly what a lack of local authorities had, and yes, this two-thirds law required to provide that local authorities cannot have an operating budget and can only be owed for development purposes if they are responsible for paying back the loan from subsequent revenues, and there is a control mechanism that ensures that this rule is respected. These were the steps we needed to be able to talk about financial stability now. As regards minimum wage issues, Mr President, I have used Eurostat data, and here I would also like to draw the attention of Mr Tamás Sneider to the fact that if you use the word cosmetics, the government should not be the recipient of this statement, but Eurostat. In the figures I said, there were government prognosis figures for 2017-18, with Eurostat figures for the facts of the past. [[20.00]] On this basis, I think that the image we see is real to the economy as a whole and to the economy as a whole, to the individual changes based on the facts of the past, and to hope for the future. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-150	Thank you, Secretary of State Banai. I give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, President of the Commission, for two minutes.
u2017-05-18-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! It is not unusual for Congressman Sándor Burány to make statements in the building of the Hungarian Parliament that are not due to truth and reality. State Secretary Péter Banai has already pointed out that the Hungarian Parliament, in the Constitution, has established in the Fundamental Law that the current Hungarian government is obliged to submit to Parliament a budget with a declining deficit. Sándor Burány claims that we are using different tricks in order to keep it. That's not true, of course. He claims that the performance of the Hungarian economy is far below what we are talking about in communication. I would like to remind you, Congressman, to take a look around the world. Our biggest attackers, who were the biggest critics of the Hungarian economic turnaround, the European Commission itself, the IMF, acknowledged each year as we progressed and as we carried out the convergence programme, which we agreed on, and the numbers of which were credible, and which Mr Banai spoke about, not only from the point of view of investors, but also in the negotiations with the European Commission, that while they had reservations about the credibility of the Hungarian budget in the first years... - which you owe to you, Member, because you cheated and you tricked with the numbers, which have now been revealed. They tricked the European Commission. Lying numbers were placed on the table during János Veres' Finance Secretaryship, which turned out to be black and white that they were not on a thank-you basis. Unfortunately, it took time for your blessed activities to finally make the figures submitted by the Hungarian Government and agreed with the European Commission look credible. Today, this credibility problem has been removed. [[Sándor Burány: That's not true! The numbers were accurate! The president's ringing the bell.]] And all the international credit rating agencies have classified the country, and they acknowledge the economic performance that we put on the table. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else has a comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned and resumed from 8 a.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a properly expanding amendment to the bill amending certain legislation relating to the food chain will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/15372. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture was duly exaggerated and T/15372/3. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I remind you that the Parliament is the House Rule 70. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 states that the over-extension of the amendment proposal is in order. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the general debate, which is reopening, consists solely of discussing the proposal for an amending amendment, which is currently expanding. I would like to inform you that amendments may be tabled by its representatives to the proposal for an amendment which is duly overextensive until the debate is over. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-05-18-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would beware of approaching the time frame at my disposal after today's budget debate of about 12 hours. I would just like to say very briefly about the amendment tabled by the Committee on Agriculture, because in the general debate on the bill, we have touched upon a great many, perhaps all, important details of this proposal, on the basis of which the Government has submitted a proposal, adding the rules on the food chain monitoring information system. What we need to know is that the FELIR makes it possible for the Authority to know all the actors involved in the activities covered by the Food Chain Act. The updated functioning of the FELIR is also linked to the amendment proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, according to which the Act 10/A on identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes. Article 4a is amended and supplemented. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that natural persons' FERIR identifiers can be accessed and verified through the register. By the way, as I said at the meeting on Monday, this facilitates the electronic administration of customers and reduces the administrative burden. That's all I wanted to say. I said on Monday, I have also said that the government is in favour of this proposal, because it is in our interest, like in recent years, to adopt any amendments in the area of food chain security that will result in a strong authority and to take all measures that will eliminate, on the one hand, unfair businesses in the black economy and in this food chain and strengthen fair businesses. So, Mr. President, I'm trying to save you the time of the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-18-154	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Zsigo. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-18-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group agrees with the objectives and principles set out by the Secretary of State. On behalf of me, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, I would like to give some further explanation of our position. On 9 May, the Committee on Agriculture T/15372/3. has tabled a proposal for an amendment to the Food Chain Safety Bill, which we are now discussing in this reopening general debate. The amendment is deemed to be over-expansion under the house rules, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out, since it opens a law which was not part of the original bill. The modification is XX of 1996 on the identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes. Opens a law, the amendment of which in relation to the food chain law is necessary in order to establish a data link between the FELIR system, the food chain security information system and other identity databases. Such a data link will make it easier and faster to identify persons carrying out activities covered by the Food Chain Act. This could speed up and simplify food chain security, as we have heard from the rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction takes the view that the bill amending the Food Chain Act No 15372 should be supplemented by this short provision that we are discussing today and that is why we support it. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-18-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, On the part of the political groups, the Jobbik Group has indicated that it intends to address it in the keynote round. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2017-05-18-157	I try to be equally effective at this relatively late time after such a long budget debate. Mr. President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, tightening up and making food chain surveillance more effective is in the common interest of all of us, we could say, a national interest. The clarification of data processing contained in the proposed legislation and in the proposal for an amendment that goes beyond the proposal submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, as well as the proposed amendment aimed at making data processing more efficient, are also intended to make the administration more efficient and thus to increase food safety in Hungary, to make food chain monitoring and control more effective. So on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we can support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[20.10]]
u2017-05-18-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. I don't see anyone applying for a two-minute speech. Further speeches may be made by Members. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the author if he would like to comment and speak. [[Robert Zsigó: No, thank you.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was possible to propose amendments to its Members until the conclusion of the general debate that was reopened. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary, has applied for a post-meeting speech.Why does Count Benyovszky tolerate Slovakianisation of Count Móric of the Government? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, notary, in five minutes.
u2017-05-18-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Last year we celebrated the 27th anniversary of the birth of Móric Benyovszky, in which a memorial committee organized a colourful series with the active participation and support of the government, organized a high-quality commemorative conference and gala evening to honor the memory of the world traveler, Móric Benyovszky Society, but also wrote a musical work in honor of the former Hungarian king of Madagascar. In memory of the anniversary of his birth, I told the Parliament that the unparalleled adventures had been experienced, and the restless Hungarian count was now considered by our Polish friends and Slovak neighbours as the son of their own nation. At the present time, only Slovak-language inscriptions announce that he was a Slovak traveler, while we know that he spoke only Hungarian in his family. Dear Parliament, Madagascar's king of Hungarian origin was buried far from his country, and his grave has since grown into the jungle. However, the Benyovszky Society, founded in 2002, has since placed numerous statues and monuments in Madagascar, and has published a sourced scientific volume in French, English and Hungarian about the adventurous Count, organized numerous presentations and events at home and in the world. In April 2017, a high-ranking government delegation, led by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in Madagascar, visited the Benyovszky House in Józsefváros. This is President György G. Németh, who reported on the life of the Hungarian traveler, and asked the Government of Madagascar to help introduce Móric Benyovszky to the people of his country, as well as the fact that he was Hungarian, appreciated the people who lived there and did much for them. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of this year, the Szemler couple in Sweden reported that several Benyovszky monuments set up in Madagascar had been damaged or destroyed in the capital and elsewhere. In at least one case, this vandalism has been demonstrated by Slovak extremists. Unknown people destroyed the Hungarian monument in the former site of the Fortress of Benyovszky Mauritanie, and in the town of Maroantsetra the local chief guards the foundation of the Benyovszky monument set by the company under his bed. In Ambodirafia, local guides guide tourists interested in Benyovszky with a multilingual guide prepared by Slovaks, in which there is also no mention of the Count's Hungarian origin. According to reports, in the villages of the area, Slovaks glued Benyovszky stickers to the sides or doors of the houses in Slovak, French and local languages. But Slovak stickers are also decorated on the memorial plaque in the capital. In the northeast part of the island in Antalah, in the centre of the village, Slovaks - in agreement with the city leaders - built an impressive monument to the Slovak Benyovszky, where there is also no trace of a Hungarian aspect. The locals are also aware of the cultural centre of Benyovszky, which will soon be built with Slovak support, but according to the plans already in place, they would not mention any of the Hungarians of Benyovszky. Dear fellow Members, The above facts are not independent of each other, according to the Benyovszky Company - I quote - we have also experienced in recent years the significant Slovak pressure behind which there is strong government support in Bratislava, which, unfortunately, we, as Hungarian civil society organisations, cannot compensate for. According to some calculations, Bratislava has now spent half a million dollars on the Slovak Benyovszky project. In response to the events in mid-April, Zsolt Cséke, led by documentarist Cséke, started a voluntary Hungarian expedition to the North Madagascar region with foundation support to restore damaged or destroyed monuments and strengthen the memory of the Hungarian Benyovszky among the locals. Today, Tibor Nagy, Iván Bradányi and Zsolt Pozsgai also produced a musical entitled Liberty Lover. This is planned to be presented by the Pesti Hungarian Theatre in the spring of 2018, but for a high-quality performance there is still a lack of adequate financial means. Dear Parliament, I firmly believe that the government should act much better for the Hungarians of Benyovszky and stand up for the protection of his monuments in Madagascar. I fully agree with the position of the Benyovszky Society that every people have the right to cultivate their Benyovszky image, but no one has the right to prevent others from doing so, to disfigure or simply destroy monuments that they do not like. I regret that the representatives of the government are no longer present, I wanted to ask them what they wish to do to cherish the memory of Benyovszky; whether they are planning to support the further care of the memory of Benyovszky in Hungary, Madagascar or anywhere else in the world; or whether the government is planning to support the presentation of the musical on the life of Benyovszky, the Liberty Lover. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-18-160	Thank you very much, Congressman István Szávay, notary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful good night. [[Meeting ended at 20:17 p.m.]]
