u2017-11-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members and all those who are monitoring our work today. The 26th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Loyal Dezső notaries will be here to help me. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2012 in Hungary, the dominant companies of the economy, universities and research institutes joined the initiative of the German logistics company, the logistics day programme series, which aims to familiarise the industry with its activities and prepare the country for putting this extremely important discipline into practice. It is no wonder, since today the products in the trade are made in various parts of the world, and they are assembled from parts, ready to be manufactured, transported, stored and the organisation of the entire process has now become an independent discipline, which has played a key role in ensuring the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy. In recent days, the Chinese Prime Minister Li Ko-csiang has been negotiating cooperation between China and 16 countries in Eastern and Central Europe in Budapest. The choice of location and the first two export trains launched on Monday clearly indicate that, taking advantage of the opportunity given by our favourable geographical location, one of the most important objectives of opening up to the east can be fulfilled, namely that large Asian companies producing for European markets choose our country as their head office. Economic processes are clear, since logistics and, in particular, the share of transport and storage in job creation are now of equal importance to health and construction. This segment of the economy contributes to Hungarian GDP by HUF 2000 billion. The potential for development is still huge, as logistics costs in the United States now account for about 10 percent of GDP. These changes really appreciate cooperation between industry and science, industry and higher education, as well as research institutes. This is why it is a pleasure that the Institute of Logistics of the University of Miskolc has been able for many years to participate in prestigious international programmes, to lead them, to coordinate them with the aim of improving the science of logistics, putting them into ordinary practice, that is, to create innovative solutions that increase our competitive advantage and ensure that our country can become the logistics centre of Central Europe, but also of Europe as a whole. Today, in the spirit of the logistics day, these universities, the University of Miskolc, the University of Technology of Graz, the world-famous Fraunhofer Institutes, the representatives of the sciences of MTA SZTAKI and German logistics will hold an international conference here in Budapest, with serious interest in the profession. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, From here, also from the Hungarian Parliament, I welcome the participants of the conference, wishing success and a successful meeting. Dear Parliament, A parliamentary report by the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2016 will be followed by a report on the provision of legal unity and control of local government standards and a joint general debate on the proposal for a decision to adopt it until closure. Report submitted by the President of the Curia B/16325. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/18540. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend a warm welcome to Dr. Peter Darák, President of the Curia [[It's a rare applause.]] [[It's a rare applause.]] and Dr. István Kónya, Deputy President (A round of applause). and the guests who have come to the hearing of the proposal, who are monitoring our work today from the box here in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia, author of the report, who will present his report here on the platform. Here you go, Mr. President, to the stand. We'll wait for what you're worth, Mr. President. Mr President has a 30-minute timeframe. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2017-11-30-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I respectfully request that the Hungarian Parliament adopt the report of the President of the Curia from 2016. For this reason, I would like to highlight some important points from the written report. A key issue for the Curia is the ongoing examination of how we can contribute to legal certainty and the consistent and transparent application of the law. To this end, in 2016 we examined, together with the Supreme Courts of Latvia, Lithuania and Spain, the specific features of the operation of each Supreme Court. It is very instructive that the joint summary report highlighted what was new from the work organisation of the Curia. These include the internship programme, the board of chief advisors, the results of the case-law analysis, the regular publication and registration of preliminary decision-making initiatives, the continuously updated regulations on internal work issues, the adoption of an internal audit manual by the Curia, the publication of newsletters for the judiciary on outstanding international decisions, and the publication on the Curia's website of notices on the substance of our judicial decisions are of paramount importance. The investigation considered the allocation of cases on the basis of objective and predefined criteria to be a fundamental factor in the quality of justice, according to which most European Supreme Courts share cases among judges on the basis of binding rules. The Curia is no exception. The Curia's colleges use pre-defined methods of case allocation.In 2016, the Curia undertook significant case-law analyses. Thus, we examined the responsibility of senior officials to creditors in the context of the new civil code provisions, the case-law on condominium disputes, the practice of ordering and maintaining prior detention, the enforcement of the requirements of the Fundamental Law, and equal treatment and abuse of law in labour law.In 2016, the Curia adopted an extremely high number of five decisions, five decisions of law units, and eight opinions of the College. The Presidential Advisory Board, set up to examine the application of the new Civil Code, has issued resolutions on statute of limitations, the liability of senior officials, common property and its abolition, and legislation on legal persons. I think it is very important that, in agreement with the President of the National Court of Justice, we launched in 2015 a consultation panel aimed at standardising judicial practice on the register of civil society organisations. The functioning of the Panel contributed significantly to the decline in the number of complaints related to the registration and registration of civil society organisations in 2016. In a similar way, there was a body in connection with nullity lawsuits. The opinions of the Consultative Board and the minutes of the meetings are available on the Curia website. [[9.10]] I am pleased to inform the Honourable Parliament that the establishment of the main advisory system at the Curia has been completed as part of the multi-annual process. The number of people filled is 14 and so many young lawyers help the councils of the Curia. I would also like to point out that the Curia's full meeting in 2016 has listened on several occasions to the council president's reports, which have contributed to giving some of the Curia's councils direct knowledge of the principled content of the work in other councils. Participation in and preparation for the codification of the new Codes of Procedure was a significant moment in 2016. In particular, the Civic College has excelled on this issue, discussed in several rounds the draft of the new Civic Rules and made proposals to improve the draft. Dear Parliament, In 2016, the Curia adopted a major legal unit decision on the definition of the subject-matter of the loan contracts and the repayment instalments and revised its previous guidance on the requirements for signing will witnesses. It repealed it and adopted a more modern position on the validity of the Witnesses' signature. I would also like to mention that, before 2016, the Curia had already carried out a case-law analysis on asylum cases. However, in view of the legislative changes that took place in 2016, it decided that it would no longer maintain its college opinion at that time in 2012 and would allow the free development of judicial practice in the changed legislative circumstances. I also consider it important that, after a long period of time, the Administrative College, setting aside the practice of general sales tax, has formed a college opinion setting out three distinct facts in order to make it easier to judge the right to deduct general turnover taxes. I also consider the judicial practice of criminal offences which violate certain fundamental rights to be an outstanding result of the case-law analysis, on the basis of which it has been established that not only individuals belonging to the minority but also to the majority may be victims of hate-motivated attacks. It has also been established that members of an organisation may enjoy special criminal protection only if they operate within the legal framework. The analysis of the case law on the application of the requirements of the Fundamental Law in the judicial case-law has made significant findings in order to clarify the extent to which the courts apply the provisions of the Fundamental Law directly. In addition to the reference to the Fundamental Law, an analysis of their content can be found in 35% of the 500 decisions examined by the analysis group as part of the explanatory statement. The report contains in detail - and I do not want to mention this now - how diverse the reference to the provisions of the Fundamental Law is in court judgments. This data is supported by a research project launched jointly by the Constitutional Court and the Curia at the opening of yesterday's scientific conference by István Stumpf, Judge of the Constitutional Court, on the fact that the Supreme Courts have applied the Fundamental Law in two thousand cases in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Let me also say in a few words about our municipal standard control exercise. In 2016, a change of legislation affected the practice of the municipal council of Kuria in so far as the legal requirement for the rate of taxation was modified. Therefore, the summary indicates that the Curia will have to decide in the next tax year whether or not its previous practice is sustainable in relation to the proportionality of the local tax rate. I would like to point out that, to date, there has been no case before the Curia concerning the 2017 tax year in which we could have carried out this review and review. The practice of the local government standard control council shows that the Curia seeks to respect the local government's margin of manoeuvre in terms of the method of determining the land tax below the legal tax ceiling. Therefore, the Curia does not consider the land tax rate below the legal tax ceiling as sanctioning taxation. At the same time, in another case, the Curia has stated that, when deciding whether the land tax is confiscated, account must also be taken of the tax practices that have been applied over several years. We have also examined the extent to which the principle of the protection of trust is met in the local government standard setting. It has been established that the subsequent levying of taxes for the originally exempt period will result in an infringement of the time needed to prepare for the application of the legislation. We have met once again on a case with which, in previous years, the municipal regulation seemed to define taxable persons in a normative manner, but in fact only one taxpayer was adversely affected. We found this kind of regulation illegal. We have also established that the criterion of exemption from the land tax cannot be whether the taxable person lives in that municipality or not. Therefore, the existence or non-compliance with the tax liability cannot be made subject to the details of the address register. The Curia considered that, if a real estate owner is also an entrepreneur, this activity precludes him from being subject to the municipal tax. It has also been pointed out that the tax situation described in the local tax law, which is regulated in the form of specific tax types, cannot be repeated and re-regulated under the name of municipal tax. I also consider it important that the case-law of the norm control board affected the intention of regulating the order of the municipalities on the part of the municipalities. Two of our decisions affected this problem. One concerned the regulation of the night-time opening of shops, where the Curia stated that local authorities could take into account the right of residents to rest and a healthy environment. In another case, the Council of the Curia stated that local authorities are authorised under environmental law to lay down local noise protection rules, even in a way that affects occasional events. An important conclusion has also been given by the municipal standard control council that if a regulation also applies the amended rules to pending cases, it may conflict with the prohibition of retroactive legislation. Dear Parliament, My written report concerns the formulation of our professional objectives for 2017. I would like to predict that in 2017 as well, the Curia has set itself the objective of examining new legal institutions, such as the reintegration detention and the judicial control of the notary's property protection proceedings. The amendment of electoral procedural laws and the related new judicial practice justified that the Administrative College should also review electoral and referendum practices in the context of a case-law analysis. This job is about to end. Dear Parliament, It is also a very important task this year to prepare for the application of the new codes of procedure, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Rules of Procedure. To sum up, I would like to say that in 2016, as a novelty compared to previous years, the establishment and functioning of the consultative bodies was a new phenomenon, which, according to the Curia's assessment, contributed effectively to ensuring that the legal issues at issue could be resolved in a satisfactory manner. [[9.20]] As the past year's experience has shown, in the face of continuous and significant changes in the legal system, the Curia still cannot be satisfied with the issuance of traditional legal consolidation acts at certain intervals, but must play an active and proactive role in the development of informal forums in which we can learn about the problems of judges judging in different parts of the country and, ultimately, the practical problems of citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-30-2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, the rapporteur of the motion for a decision, who will also present what he has to say on the platform. Here you go, Mr. President of the Commission, come on up. Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-3	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to welcome Dr. Péter Darák, President of the Curia and his colleagues to our plenary session with special respect, as well as to begin my expozet with the Latin-language quote of the former Palace of Justice, which is now still the Ethnographic Museum, but tomorrow it is once again carved into the facade of the Palace of Justice, which Fidesz-KDNP intends to rewrite in gold letters:. The truth is the foundation of power. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a legal predecessor of the Supreme Court, the Curia formally regained its old patina name as a result of the 2011 judicial reform, but received not only this, but also significant new powers while separating the professional and administrative management of the courts. This was not only a restructuring of the Supreme Court forum, but also a historical justice, because we must not forget that the highest level of Hungarian justice is not XX in 1949. It was created by law, but much earlier. The Curia is therefore heir to the professional and moral standards established over the centuries that have affected and affected the whole of the Hungarian judicial system, which has made the Hungarian judicial system a state of law, and has also become a European standard. This is how the Mansion became the 21st. One of the key tasks of which is to ensure the requirement of a legal unit in order to further strengthen legal certainty. In the continental legal system, including in our country, there has been a long-standing demand for justice, so that judgments that contradict each other are not passed. Of course, this does not mean that the Curia wants to transform the Hungarian legal system into an Anglo-Saxon type legal system based on precedent by fulfilling its priority task. Rather, it aims to ensure that all courts operating in the eastern and western, northern and southern parts of the country are equally judged by the same facts. Ladies and Gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 November 2017, the Judicial Committee discussed the report of the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2016 and supported its adoption with 9 votes in favour and 1 abstention. It also shows that a significant majority of the committee appreciates the work of the Curia very positively. In the Commission's debate, the Curia's system of division of cases was highly emphasised, in which it was found that the Curia's colleges were using pre-defined methods of division of cases, and this practice was most consistent with the fundamental principle of the spirit, the spirit of the Fundamental Law and the right to a legitimate judge which could be broken out of the Fundamental Law. It is obvious that citizens are entitled to the right to be dealt with by a judge appointed for their case on a pre-defined basis. This is also followed by several instructions from the President of the Curia, namely the order of order of order and the order of the four-member councils of 4/2017 as President of the Curia. The Committee stated in the debate that the Curia's professional objectives for 2016, such as ensuring uniform and high-quality case-law, improving the timeliness of the judicious activities in individual cases, making the decisions of the Curia more understandable, supporting the preparation of legislation, ladies and gentlemen, have all been achieved. The Committee also considered important the work of the case-law analysis groups established for a high level of judgment, in particular the examination of expert evidence and the establishment of the main advisory system, which can effectively assist judges in their substantive work. The Judicial Committee welcomed the outstanding work carried out to identify legal interpretation issues arising from the application of the new Civil Code in order to identify problems relating to the application of the law in relation to the registration of civil society organisations, as well as the problems of interpretation of the foreign exchange loan contracts, which I would like to thank the President of the Curia. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Judicial Committee is hereby appointed B/16325. No 84 of the House Rules. In its proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act, the Parliament is recommended to adopt it. Please support the adoption of this report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In its proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, Parliament is recommended to adopt it. Please support the adoption of this report. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2017-11-30-4	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. I respectfully ask Mr Pál Völner if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to say anything right now. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Imre Vas. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-30-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Darts, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the law on the organisation and administration of the courts, the President of the Curia is subject to an annual reporting obligation on the activities of the Parliament in the field of legal unification and local government standard control. The report is supported by the Fidesz faction, given that the Curia's activities continued to meet the overall social expectations at a high level in 2016. I highlight the following from the report and from what was said in the Judicial Committee. I think it is important that, in response to my question at the committee meeting, the President of the Curia presented the functioning of the system of court distribution of high interest to society. Like the large majority of the European Supreme Courts, Hungary has a kind of automatic division of cases. This system of division of cases complies with the principle of the right to a Judge set out in the Fundamental Law. [[9.30]] After the presentation, we could make sure that there was a certain objective distribution system for each college. The mechanism itself is regulated by 4/2017. Presidential instructions are public and accessible to all. In order to ensure high-quality and uniform case-law, it is of paramount importance that the President of the Curia, other leaders of the Curia, public bodies, and the case-law analysis group set up with the agreement of professional bodies on ten subjects of inquiry, should identify the problems of the application of the law. In particular, it has become necessary to set up these groups in cases that play such a current role today, such as the case law on public procurement or the status of the liquidator in bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. A consultative body has been set up to identify the problems of interpretation of the foreign exchange loan contracts, taking into account the large number of lawsuits of social importance. The consultative body shall be responsible for the collection of questions, indications, discussions and opinions sent by the courts in the context of nullity proceedings, which can provide a great deal of assistance to judges. I have found with satisfaction that reminders of the board's meetings are available on the Curia website. The fact that the establishment of the main advisory system in 2016 is deemed to be completed should also be emphasised. It has been successfully achieved that the work of the Curia Councils in all disciplines is supported by a highly qualified senior advisor on a scientific career. The main advisors shall provide the councils with summary material on the issues of interpretation and analyses of the interpretation of European Union law. It also supports the work of colleges in the opinion of draft legislation, in the preparation of legal unit decisions and in the preparation of college opinions. The internship programme is also of particular importance, since, on the one hand, doctoral students can carry out their research activities more effectively with regard to the study of judgments and, on the other hand, the Curia can select its future chief advisers. Thanks to the rapporteurs invited during the entire meeting of the Curia, it was possible to learn about the problems raised by co-professionalism and legal science, as well as about the Hungarian judiciary, such as the Court of Justice of the European Union or the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Two of the activities of the civil and economic case-law analysis group should in any case be highlighted from among the large number of cases on the subject. In the judicial practice, different positions were established in proceedings against the insolvency proceedings against the insolvency proceedings against the insolvency proceedings against the insolvency proceedings against the insolvency proceedings, whether or not the insolvency proceedings were carried out on its own behalf or as a legal representative of the debtor, or who would bear the procedural costs associated with it. Based on the substantive decision taken in the review procedure of 40 of the Curia's decisions, the opposite of the two camps remained, so the opinion of the group leaves the task of the Parliament, since the debate can only be settled by legal regulations. The other priority issue, in which a substantive enforcement opinion was delivered, is the responsibility of the executive officials of the business entities vis-à-vis creditors. The group opinion stated that the legitimate presumption of damage to creditors' interests the burden of proof is reversed, i.e. the applicant does not have to demonstrate any behaviour detrimental to the interests of creditors, only the extent of the loss of assets and the fact thereof. The exemption from liability is clearly governed by the provisions of the bankruptcy law and is applicable. It is also up to the legislator, in the opinion of the group, to decide whether the liability rules in the Ptk. constitute a separate title of suing. This can only be achieved by clear legislation. The Council of the Curia pointed to a very important principle in its response to a procedural question in a particular case. In that case, a local government decided not to hold a public meeting on the fees due to Members and Committee Chairs. In the decision of the Curia, it pointed out that the publicity of the meeting of the municipal representative body is an important requirement of the democratic rule of law. It is possible to hold a closed meeting only for the reasons set out in the law. In 2016, the Presidential Advisory Council on the issues of interpretation of the new civil code, which had previously been established, continued its effective work, resulting in an increasingly smooth and uniform interpretation and application of the provisions of the law in civil proceedings before the courts. It should also be mentioned with regard to this objective that the new Ptk, which operates on the basis of the voluntary participation of the judges, has started their work in Curia. Legal unit groups. It is noteworthy that the President of the Curia points out that the Curia cannot be satisfied with the release at certain intervals of traditional legal consolidation acts provided by the law, when, as a result of events taking place in the world and affecting Hungarian society, the legal system is subject to continuous and significant changes. In 20106, the consultation bodies appeared as a new institution, which I mentioned earlier in the case of foreign exchange. These professional consultations have proved to be effective, since they have helped to ensure consistency of case-law and, as regards the subject matter and nature of advice, their activities are compatible with the requirements of an independent and impartial procedure as regards the individual of the consultants. It should be noted, in any event, that the opinions of the consultative bodies, however useful, are not legally binding, as they are not part of the instruments of legal consolidation provided to the Curia by law. Their purpose is solely to broaden the horizon of the judge. This objective, regardless of the lack of binding force, serves the effective and effective implementation of justice in all respects. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the Curia carries out its tasks at a high level and effectively, thereby contributing to the strengthening of the trust of society in justice. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the report by the President of the Curia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-30-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[9.40]]
u2017-11-30-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Silent from today's debate, at least from what I've seen so far, I've been thinking of a Chinese bad wish that sounds like you have an interesting life. This occurred to me because the report by the President of the Curia has so far been the least of an interesting parliamentary debate. And I think it's good as long as it is. I will not necessarily make it that way, because that is what an opposition Member is essentially supposed to do, but I think in such a debate even the pro-government party may be able to highlight in a report what is not good, acceptable, problematic, or otherwise. I do not feel it is my job to repeat what is included in this report instead of Mr President. I can say that, for us, what is in it is acceptable, it is eligible, and therefore the MSZP Group will support the adoption of the report. I would also like to point out here and also in the report by the President of the OBH that we would like to thank very much for the work of the judges who have done their work fairly and conscientiously, in addition to the current burden, and, in practice, and by maintaining their independence, have made the Hungarian court the last witness point in the rule of law. Perhaps I would like to make two comments or two points of thought in a little more detail, Mr President, which is, in particular, one concerning the work of Parliament and the Mansion and its relationship. One of them is 2/2016. a criminal unit of law decision which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and repealed. I would, of course, ignore the professional judgement of this, but I consider this to be a fact that this has happened. But according to the Constitutional Court, it is not the Curia that has to deal with its contents here, but Parliament. I would like to say that we have witnessed the rare events in the debate on this bill, where we have succeeded in reaching agreement and consensus between the opposition and the ruling parties. I myself have tabled an amendment on the subject, and we are talking here about classified cases of sexual violence against children, and a week later, MEP Selmeczi also submitted a proposal. This was taken into consideration by the Parliament, but in the spirit of compromise, the two proposals were in fact collided, since my amendment was accepted in determining the sentence framework of the qualified case, and therefore the Parliament adopted this bill in an exemplary unity either unanimously or almost unanimously. So we are pleased that the Curia has noticed and drew attention to this problem, and in the spirit of cooperation, if you will, we have done our job, and by submitting a legislative amendment proposal, we have addressed this problem. I would like to note in this section, Mr President, just as a flash here, because we discussed this more at committee meetings, that I would consider that there should be a little more openness on the part of the Curia towards Parliament. Because I believe that the Parliamentary Act is 98. In accordance with Article 5 of the Curia, when a representative comes to the Curia on a subject in which the Curia is otherwise required to report, I believe that the substantive consultation and the substantive response are mandatory under the law. To you, Mr President, I think that, in the first place, however strange this may sound, the government is not your partner, but the legislator, the Parliament. Because the government is proposing law, and the Parliament is creating it. That is why, although I know that there are laws governing the relationship between the Curia and the Government, and this can be followed up in several places in the judicial system, for example, by the fact that the Minister of Justice is a member of the National Judicial Council, but I must say that I think it would be a good thing if your opinion came directly to Parliament and went directly to the Government. Because in many cases, your opinion is not shared by the government, and this is a problem, I see it as a problem. I sincerely hope that this will be changed, that this will be different in the future, because this will facilitate better legislation. I think, Mr President, that if you are concerned about party politicians sitting here in Parliament, then you can give these comments to the President of the current committee, President of the Justice Committee, who, I note, is also a party politician, but I note that, let us say, Secretary of State Völner, who is sitting here on behalf of the government, is also a party politician. Obviously, we are not consulting in this capacity, but in relation to our public office. So I am asking Mr President very nicely for this consideration. I have done this several times in the past, but I feel it is my duty to do it now, especially in the case of this report. What I would also like to say in connection with the debate: I am always pleased when my fellow Members speak of the respect for the independence of the judiciary, and I was pleased to hear the words of President Vejkey on this, but I believe that the respect for the independence of the judiciary does not depend on you, Mr President of the Commission, on whether you - as Fidesz-KDNP - will be able to find the quote on the wall of the facade of a building in gold, but on the fact that, for example, the Vice-President of your committee, who is part of the Group's association, does not commiserate the entire judiciary. I think it would be more important than writing in gold on the façade of the building the quote you mentioned. In fact, I think it would be more important, Mr President of the Commission, that, if this had already happened at the committee meeting and he is reporting on what happened at the committee meeting here in Parliament, then at least he would have said that he was sorry, that we do not think so, that we would distance ourselves from this. That's what I would have expected of you. I am sorry that this did not happen on your part, nor on the part of the lead speaker of Fidesz, who has highlighted a great deal of what has been said on the committee, somehow failed to highlight this, although this has been the sound of the press for a week, and it may still be a topic. And while we are at it, fellow Members, what happened later... - Well, we know Gyula Budai, we can put him in his place, too much importance, I think that he should not be attributed, perhaps his position, but not to him personally, but that the Prime Minister did not distance himself from this statement, but practically said that not all judges, but only some of them are commies, well, I think that this is not okay. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is your interpretation.]] It's not okay. So, my fellow Member, Mr Vas Imre, I hope you will comment on this debate, because this is an important issue, and this must be discussed. Just because this ominous statement was made when the accounts were being debated. And speaking of criticism, honourable Members, I would also like to say with great respect to President Darák that we would have expected a few words from you in this respect. You can do this now, it would have been good if this had happened earlier, the President of the Curia, I think that such a statement should have bothered you, because it would have hurt your colleagues to the core and the independence of the justice system. So, speaking of criticism, these would all be our critical comments on the report and on the discussion of the report. Therefore, I would like to make it clear once again that I am removing these cases that I have mentioned from the report and that, therefore, the report will be supported in its entirety by the MSZP faction at the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-30-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-9	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President of the Curia, First of all, I would like to reassure you not to be alarmed by the fact that I am speaking again in the context of the report by the Curia in 2017 to repeat what I have just said as President of the Commission. I would particularly like to speak in order to highlight how the Christian Democrats themselves support the report of the Curia in 2017. [[9.50]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats believe that the Curia has also made a significant contribution to legal certainty in 2016, to a consistent and transparent application of the law, to a more complete case-law unit at national level. The case-law unit was greatly facilitated by the case-law analysis groups established by the President of the Curia. We consider it extremely important that the Curia, from the very first moment of its re-shaping of the staff composition of the working groups, has sought to involve as much as possible the prepared judges of the lower-level courts in the work of the analysis groups, since these courts and these judges were the first to encounter the most recent problems due to the procedure of the proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Curia also has an important role to play in informing citizens, understanding and understanding of the case-law. In addition to domestic judicial practice, this activity also covers matters relating to European Union law and the European Convention on Human Rights. We regard as particularly forward-looking good practice the newsletters published on a monthly basis by the International Relations and European Legal Office of the Curia, which provide information on the initiation of a so-called preliminary ruling procedure before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the decisions taken in the preliminary ruling procedure, the decisions of the Curia concerning European law, the relevant decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, decisions considered to be of paramount importance, and decisions on human rights. In the information of citizens, we consider it extremely important to have a summary of the decisions, which will be carried out in such a way that the President of the relevant board of the Curia is obliged to write a summary of the judgments on matters of major importance, even on the day of the decision, which will be published on the Curia's website in a short time. A brief summary of the most important decisions will also be prepared for publication in English. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats consider the binding allocation of cases to judges on the basis of objective pre-defined conditions as a fundamental criterion in terms of the quality of justice. The Curia is no exception to this, although, in accordance with the legal provisions in force, different methods may be used for the distribution of cases at the Curia. In addition to the conscientious fulfilment of new tasks, we find that the Curia has also paid particular attention to meeting its traditional obligations and timely consideration of review cases, which are also very important tools for the unity of rights. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction, as well as the leading speakers who spoke before me, supports the 2016 report of the President of the Curia, finds it acceptable because we believe that all the professional objectives set have been well achieved. Please support this report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-30-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Gábor Staudt, is next. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-30-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I am very pleased that we can continue in a broader timeframe the debate that emerged at the Justice Committee meeting, although I would add that the report by the President of the Curia is always an issue in which the most professional debate can be held. It's also joyful. This is also the case for the Committee and Parliament's plenary session. Of course, there are a few points that we have been criticising before, and the year 2016 has also been defined, for example, I can think of foreign exchange issues, but it is very important that, when these professional criticisms or even professional praises are made, we can learn from this, we can learn together, the legislators like the judges, and in the future we can work together to develop a more balanced, better legislation and legislation that is even more appropriate to the basic laws in Hungary. I am also encouraged by President Darák's earlier speeches and closing remarks, as he said that there is a generous way to go in addition to praises. This is a very good and positive attitude, but, of course, I will also say positive thoughts, so that there is a whole picture that I can tell you here. I also have to add that, although we are lawyers and legislators, as elected representatives of the people, it is also an important task for us to bring matters here to Parliament in a positive or negative sense, where we feel that although legal arguments and arguments can be found, the sense of justice of society in the Chamber of Plenary must be explained, since the courts, I am convinced, can come as close to the truth as possible, this is more important in criminal matters, they say, but in civil matters it may be equally true, although the law has already been forced to reveal the truth - but I would note this in brackets only. I do not want to deal with this issue in more detail here. Public trust will become the most acceptable base for justice, not only for justice, but specifically for justice, if we can also approach decisions to justice and social justice. If, on the other hand, we feel that society on some subject may not yet have a good conviction, then those criticisms can also be said, but I also think that dry lawyering can sometimes be taken aside. Mr President, we have been able to ask some questions at the committee meeting. We've had answers. I would like to repeat a few more here, and I can respond to the answer received, so I can continue to spin this debate. As a matter of fact, it may be technical, but it was very important in foreign exchange matters, what is the verdict on the website of the Curia. President Darák said that he had given a pretty specific answer that it was perfectly defined, that the judging councils would decide which judgment would be placed on the website. I am willing to accept that, so I know that, but the problem here was not about getting up - I am thinking of the judgment of Mary Hartai's council of foreign exchangeers - but of taking it off. So the upshot... then I probably wasn't sufficiently precise at the committee meeting. So it's okay that it's on, because this decision has been made, and we're happy for it. There was a criticism of the withdrawal, and it was mentioned several times here in plenary that the Bank Association came down to the people with such an order, as if the Banking Association had asked for it, or there was a letter written to György Wellmann, which we had already talked about. When people read this, they obviously felt that the avoidance of this judgment was a form of a banking covenant request. So it was the take-off that was to be emphasized. Then we talked about the decisions of the legal development unit, in which I will continue to maintain, Mr President, that it is not enough to keep it within the Curia's borders, because Mr President replied that the Curia exercised self-limitation in these decisions of the development and legal unit, and that they should therefore be regarded as another instrument of the rule of law. [[10.00]] I think it's bad enough that it's up to the mansion president and the mansion to keep it within limits. Therefore, it should also be understood that if he were not, say, the President of the Curia, or if he were a President of the Curia who would appreciate this even further, then, if appropriate, this would be an issue of the powers of the Parliament. By the way, I would like to add that unfortunately, I do not consider the rules on this matter, which, in such a way, permits the adoption of legal unit decisions, necessarily to be fundamental. I will tell you why: because, in my opinion, it is not enough, Mr President, that there are decisions, and then the Curia will then take a legal unit decision; the expectation would be, in my opinion, that a decision to develop a legal unit should be taken in these decisions. We have seen, and perhaps this is another external point of view, but I have seen it, and I am not alone in that there were previous court decisions in foreign exchange matters, some, but in most of them the lower courts have often given the truth to foreign exchange taxpayers, and then the Curia, as if it had interfered with the system, did not make a decision, we may have thought that many of us, which was contrary to the agreement of the government and the Banking Association, had interfered with the Curia, and have often taken legal unit decisions with which a large number of lower court decisions were overwritten so that they did not come from those decisions. So it's not a development of law, but it's actually the lower-level courts... - I could even say that it's already established, because in many places in other parts of the country, I know they've made decisions in a direction, and they've been overwritten in the Curia. However, I believe that this has an impact on the development of law or legislation, and in addition, as I said, it has had a very bitter response, because we have seen the decision of the government and the Banking Alliance in some way. Of course, I have said that I understand the enormous pressure, humanly I understand the enormous pressure that has been on the Mansion these days or these years, but of course, human sensitivity must be set aside here if we are talking about the rule of law, the Mansion, the Fundamental Law and legislation. Only and only the legal arguments have to be met in my opinion, even if the banks make a mistake in concluding contracts that are null and void for them, and they suffer serious damage from their own error; then, in my opinion, the Hungarian judiciary must say so, if this also causes the banks to have a significant negative feeling. I wouldn't go into it now, because we have talked about this many times in the previous years, that it really would have been such a damage to the banks, because even according to the statistics of the Hungarian National Bank, it didn't - not even a fraction - come into the country as much currency as it was set up as a foreign currency loan, so it is clear that they wouldn't have suffered such a loss, but these are already political issues that the government and the legislature should have discussed. The Mansion would have had nothing to do but to focus purely on legality and Hungarian laws, otherwise in many cases or in most cases, thank God, they do. In this regard, I would also like to refer in the report to the decision of the legal unit concerning matters of 2016 and currency, which is 1/2016. I said this at the committee meeting that although it contains only additional provisions compared to the previous ones, it is very important that it has been stated that a contract is a foreign exchange contract even if the amount of the loan is set only in HUF, but at a later date, at the time of payment, in the predictable currency, i.e. in the promissory currency. In this way, they must also be accepted as regular according to the Curia's decision, and here in point 3 - it is always in the details, they say, the devil in point 3 - the Curia states that it does not affect the conclusion or validity of the contract if a contract has been concluded in such a way, as defined in points 1 and 2. So once again, the whole exit is to prevent a claim of nullity, to reduce the possibility of declaring nullity, which also implies that the debtors are unable to enforce their right to be accounted for on a HUF basis by restoring the original status in the event of an invalid contract. So, although this is just a continuation of the previous ones, I must say, too much joy has unfortunately not been caused by the study of this decision. I could not explain this at the committee meeting without time, but here I have already pointed out that there is a significant pressure on us, too, in the direction of legislation, and I think that if many people's problems have not been solved by the government, Parliament, the Curia and the Constitutional Court... - although the decision of the Constitutional Court would have made it possible, so I have to protect them here, an effective legislative and legislative practice, but this has not happened, but it is everyone's shared responsibility that in this case, foreign exchange taxpayers did not really feel that anyone was on their side. Now, in this case, when we decide on the Curia report, we have this social expectation, and I have to say, legally, I think that we should, to a large extent, also bring here a legitimate expectation and consider it when we evaluate the otherwise positive, otherwise positive Curia practice. Then I'd go further on page 22, and because of the page count, I'd say 5/2016. In a KMK opinion, Mr President said that this is the burden of proof of the tax authority. This is a very right and very timely decision. We may often feel that the tax authority believes that innocence must be proven by everyone and not by them. We are pleased that the Curia has corrected this decision here, and we are very confident that this can affect tax administration practice on a daily basis. I must also say that unfortunately, the new tax administration procedures, which have recently been adopted, set out a negative direction in the absence of any evidence presented by the parties or the party subject to the proceedings, cannot be presented to the court. Then, if someone attacks this with a constitutional complaint or otherwise, it is possible that these passes are against the law - I think they can easily be - and how the Curia will apply it will be another question, but what we read here is certainly forward-looking and we thank the Curia for its decision. Mr President also referred to an important issue when he spoke about organisations that are members of or members of organisations in which the organisation does not comply with Hungarian laws, in which case they may claim priority criminal protection. The answer to this, of course, or the answer seems natural, is no, since they themselves have violated the law. This could be broadly agreed, so as a statement, I have no problem with that. The bigger problem is that the case is far more circumstantial, especially because the New Hungarian Guard Movement is also mentioned, and factually the statement in the report is that this organization has been dissolved by a final decision of the court. That didn't happen. This is in a report in Curia, I do not know who wrote this part, but it is factually aware that an association was dissolved by the Hungarian court. I wouldn't go for it, the decision was made, it's final, so I don't want to qualify for that anymore. There was an association whose activity was otherwise different from a movement of the same name. [[10.10]] The association, which had not otherwise done anything illegal, was disbanded by the court - let us accept it, since it was a final decision - and the association ceased its activities afterwards, could not do anything else, and the movement ceased its activities afterwards, and, as is the case with its name, several movements did not function continuously, but in line with the new conditions, in compliance with the laws and in accordance with the laws in force. Then, in such a situation - and here the Curia is talking about the fact that members are members; it is also rather blurry, because we are not talking about a registered organisation, we are talking about a movement, then membership is also a difficult thing to understand, so we are going even further, so we are not even talking about active membership here, and if we go one more step further, we could also talk about the status of a member, which would be likely to be a member, which I think is already asking questions about the rule of law, because if someone, let us say, is offended because they claim that he is a member of a movement, of which he is not a member, which otherwise cannot be registered, which could not otherwise be disbanded by the court, in which way the Hungarian judicial system can withdraw the special protection from him. I understand, and it is possible to answer - and this is the natural answer - that the court in question has to decide on a specific matter, only my fears exist because if the Curia's account contains a factual error, then the courts can easily be wrong about the facts. On the other hand, in the assembly law, the banning of the 48-hour limitation period, which refers to the fact that if the police did not prohibit an event within 48 hours, they could no longer prohibit it, but only by considering the violations that occurred on the ground, so they cannot do so in advance; this is also a forward-looking one, coming from the laws, and we could all think that it should have been a clear practice for the police, and the Curia didn't seem to have done so here, which I thank you for. This will, in many cases, clarify what the police have to do and how long it will have to do so. In the end, I would also like to add a few positives, although I have mentioned quite a few here too. I would add that although it appeared in the MTI news that I qualified the entire civil sector in the Curia, this is certainly not the case, because, as I have listed, there are very good civil affairs and civil decisions in this, but there are certainly decisions by the civil sector, especially in foreign currency matters, which can be the subject of very serious criticism, so it is accurate that I can see the positive directions in one or two cases, but in other cases this should be corrected. What is important, however, and I would like to mention - and I would also like to welcome Vice-President István Kónya here - is that a very important decision has been made in the criminal sector, which must be said in any case; if someone follows the plenary session, if our fellow Members follow it in such a small number, but I know that a number of people from both the citizens and the press follow these meetings. So some decisions have been made which, on the other hand, are consistent with the sense of justice of society and with the laws, and I and the media, I must say, have welcomed it. I would like to highlight two cases, one of which is the case of the thief, where I must say that the prosecution has taken another step, and the Curia has restored the situation to God. There were mixed judgments in the lower courts, and I think it was pronounced with crystal clear legal logic - so there was no need to deviate from the law, of course, only to comply with the law - that in the event that a valuable object was stolen from someone, but it did not come out of his immediate environment, it did not come out of the circle that he could recover it, then the criminal case of the theft was not completed in this case. So, if someone is chasing the perpetrator, and if the perpetrator is not following the rules in this case by accident with his bike, and one of the perpetrators is killed, then not the robber, or to be exact, the individual who has been the victim of the theft has to endure a multi-annual court procedure - and otherwise it is a stressful thing in itself - and a variety of alternating judgments, if I remember correctly, to be convicted and exonerated, but, in this case, the perpetrator has to bear responsibility. We may have even heard an example here, because the prosecutor's office, which, as I'm saying, has unfortunately re-enacted, because they always like to condemn someone if they are innocent, if they are guilty, in many cases that is true, there are very few cases where the D.A. says, oops, I realize that what we've done so far is not good, and that social justice and legislation support someone else; well, the reference didn't even stop to the fact that if a policeman can't do something, then a robbed or a victim of a crime can do it. I don't know where I read that someone locked an unsub in the trunk of a car, held back - there's a right to do so until the police arrive - and obviously the police can't do that, but a citizen can't be expected to know all the police rules on the one hand, and on the other hand, he's obviously in a much worse position than a policeman, whether in a physical or legal sense, or the perpetrator is always in a situational preference, and this can be absolutely justified. Another case, which was also a lengthy case, and I was able to put an end to it very rightly, is the case of legitimate protection, a case in which the lower courts also applied controversially not only the laws, the new criminal law rules for legitimate protection, but also the Curia's decision as a legal unit, which had been made earlier, and I also welcomed it, because it was a forward-looking, very good single-law decision, and it seems that the lower courts did not apply it sufficiently, while the single-law decision was on the ground of criminal law for a hundred percent, and it was not even possible to put them aside, it was not applied; in this case it was also stated that if the legitimate defence situation was established, it would be necessary to proceed from that point forward, or in good case the perpetrator should not be subject to proceedings. In this case, too, the Curia has taken a decision to correct these questions, and we trust that if the decision on the unity of rights was not enough, then these individual decisions will bring about a change in judicial practice. So I have to say that it is also possible to apply legal unit decisions and individual court decisions well and effectively, as we have seen in the criminal law sector. We would have liked to have seen it with the civilian, but it didn't always happen there. So, to conclude my comment, I would like to thank you, Mr President, Vice-President, and all the judges and other staff working in the Curia for their work. We wish to continue to operate in the future as an effective procedure, in accordance with Hungarian law, and also in the case law of the courts as a forum for proper control and supervision. By the way, our abstention - I was also in the committee meeting, who gave the vote to abstain - is largely due to the extended foreign exchange affairs, because we cannot pass the social and legal relations that have developed, but of course, which I have said positive contributions, and I would like to ask Mr President to treat this in a package, and so we can deliver our votes. And as I said, we wish you good work. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[10.20]]
u2017-11-30-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for two-minute speeches and further speeches by Members. [[There's no such signal.]] No one has applied for a two-minute speech, so we will continue with proper speeches. Member Attila Gelencsér, the notary of the Parliament, asked for the floor of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-30-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, CHAPTER XXI At the beginning of the 20th century, we are living in Europe at a time when the state needs to respond quickly and appropriately to international, economic, legal, political and environmental changes in order to guarantee citizens safety, decent living and progress in their quality of life. In recent years, our country's improved response has been accompanied by dynamic legislation, which has also challenged the judicial system. I consider it an important measure in the 2016 report of the President of the Curia that last year the consultation bodies of the Curia have been set up, since the ongoing and significant changes in the legal system have led to a change in the traditional approach. The issue of legal consolidation acts provided for by law at certain intervals was no longer sufficient, but an active and proactive role was needed in the development of informal forums to make the problems of judges judging at different points in the country known, as well as practical problems for citizens. I would like to highlight two of the results of the case-law analyses that President Darák mentioned in his report to the Judicial Committee. I consider it important to examine the judicial practice of offences which violate certain fundamental rights. According to this, it was found that not only individuals belonging to the minority, but also to the majority, could be victims of hate-motivated attacks. It has also been found that members of an organisation may enjoy special criminal protection only if they operate within the legal framework. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-30-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Member of the Fidesz Group, the doyenje of the House, has also applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-30-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that last year, and this year, I have listened to the report of the President of the Curia with the good feeling that we are meeting with a confident, calm and calm account of an independent power branch; a report that was limited to facts and was about facts. This is already a significant achievement in today's and in this rather vomited world in itself. But it is also a significant achievement, this House, that not only does the Curia not reflect on attacks, but it gives the peace that is absolutely necessary in the course of justice. What I would like to deal with in particular has also been affected by the President: the issue of the Council of Legal Units and the decisions of the legal unit. I am probably the one in this House, and I am quite certain, who can look back in the area of justice for a much older period than today, and I can safely say that the decisions of the Supreme Court were not only helpful to the work of judges, lawyers and prosecutors at the lower courts, but it was extremely irreplaceable. After a while, every legislation has an anomaly of the kind where there are difficult findings that a judge has to have a much wider perspective and a much wider perspective than it might have in a local court. This will be replaced and I believe that this decision will help. I think the next one's even more important here. It is clear that moderation - and I suggest that it should continue in the future - does not take these decisions towards the introduction of precedent law and the emergence of precedent law, but provides the support and support that it is very difficult to make uniform decisions without. I am not going to give concrete examples, as one of my fellow Members has said here. I believe that this is what the court should generally seek to ensure that these decisions are uniform, that the same principles are applied in all courts. There is one more issue that I have asked for today, which has also been affected by the President, and that is the question of communication. There's enough communication, there's a lot of communication, how much communication do you need? I believe that the extent and scale of the courts which is not only acceptable to the public but also provides sufficient information, but also does not go beyond the limit which is particularly binding on the courts and on this authority, namely that it should not in any way offend the persons involved in the case, specifically those matters which are concerned, I think that there are certain steps to be taken here. This communication that we are receiving today is, I believe, moderate, perhaps a little bit, because it does not wish to wander into areas, otherwise quite rightly, which may not have been part of the judgment. At the same time, I believe that explanations can and need a kind of simplification that is clear and clear to the people who are not legally involved. In the majority of cases, misunderstandings and confusion can be caused by the lack of understanding of communication itself in terms of public opinion. So in our communication, this kind of responsibility, I think, is significant and important. But perhaps I wouldn't have said all this today if it hadn't been for a proposal from the Member of the Council, which I have otherwise admired, which said something about consulting - perhaps between the two branches of power or between the courts and Parliament? If not, between representatives and the courts? It's hard to say, but for my part, I wouldn't consider it lucky. I am very strongly of the opinion that if the branches of power have to interact with each other, they have to have the forms that take place within the framework of form; and these formal frameworks must be fixed. We must not create a situation where the slightest doubt or concern arises that the two branches of power are engaged in some kind of consultation that goes beyond constitutional and legal frameworks. I believe that avoiding this is absolutely necessary, and today's frameworks seem sufficient to ensure that the independence of the court is maintained, and that legislation should also do its job. Returning to judicial unit decisions for one more sentence. Please, there are situations where this is clear, and I must say this with some self-criticism of legislation, when a judicial decision cannot help the situation if there is a legal deficiency. And if there is a legal deficiency, it is particularly painful and bad taste when we try to point the finger at the court, because in this case, the task is to legislate and to make decisions on the basis of which the courts can already make clear and clear decisions. I believe that this cannot be passed on to anyone. One more short sentence about what made me say the most important thing today. I was deeply outraged by the fact that in a newspaper that was distributed free of charge, there was an advertisement that contained the following, some sort of, I say, as a political show, not anywhere, but as an advertisement for work. [[10.30]] We are looking for full-time judges in Hungarian judicial bodies who are capable of loyal work, guided teamwork, creative interpretation of the law. Lack of legal qualifications is not an obstacle. I won't read the rest because it's even more penetrate. I ask you, please, that this appeared because of a mistake or for what reason, and I cannot tell you this, but personally, as a member of the largest political group in Parliament, I reject any such initiative the most deeply. Please, this story isn't about being funny. This is a story about a separate, independent branch like the judiciary being deeply insulted, and I assume that a person whose IQ is likely to be found somewhere below the bench could hardly be found. With all due respect, it must be made clear that the faction to which we belong is the separation of powers, the autonomous functioning of the branches of power, its full support... - and the Prime Minister has made this clear several times. You can misinterpret all kinds of things here, but the statements that are about this are unmistakable. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: All you have to do is look at the works, Bela!]] I think it's this spirit that needs to get through all of our negotiations today, our discussions, our reports. For my part, I am very much in favour of this report. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-11-30-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy has applied for another speech from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, on a few points. I will start by saying that I do not think we should talk about the Prime Minister in this debate and his attitude towards the courts, because that, let's just say, will make the debate interesting then, and I do not want that. On the other hand, as regards the separation of powers, my honourable fellow Member, of course, we agree in principle that this must be achieved, and this must prevail in a rule of law. However, separation of powers does not mean a lack of contact, Congressman. What I can tell you is that it doesn't even mean informal contact. I think that you should be able to trust the legislator, the legislator and the representatives of the courts so much that we assume that they will not be discussing concrete matters here, but what they are doing. By the way, honourable Member, I have not even spoken about this - but, speaking of which, that is my position, and that has always been the case - but I have talked about the parliamentary law... - because you say that this communication must be recorded. It's recorded, yes, the Parliamentary Act is 98. § 2 of the Act states that this communication must be carried out. It has to be done, Congressman, it's written there, read it, please. I was referring to this case. Of course, a theoretical question that should be separated is whether informal contact is good or not. But what I'm talking about is the relationship that's enshrined in the law. I would like to say that even informal contacts or this formal thing we are talking about will help the stability of the legal system. Let me give you an example, Congressman: if there is a problem with the interpretation of the law, it may be easier if you consult, say, the representative of the government, the representative of the legislator, on an otherwise statutory forum with a representative of the courts, and ask whether it would not be worthwhile to have a position of unity of law here, obviously not about what it should be, just to have it as a law. I think it is for the stability of the legal system. So I think this kind of relationship is very welcome and we have a job, and it doesn't violate the separation of powers in any way. You know what offends me, Congressman? When, in relation to specific judgments, the legislator or politicians impose expectations on the courts, or judge whether they think it is good or not, whether the court has made a mistake or not, what the higher court is supposed to do or not. That's insulting! Unfortunately, there's been a lot of that on your side lately. I say this again because if we are debating on a theoretical and principled basis, and this consultation is being conducted to improve the stability of the legal system, then it does have a place in the Hungarian public law system. Point to any place where this is forbidden; show me the law that forbids it. I don't think so. So I deeply disagree with you, Congressman, I would like to say. I would like to ask you, because I have seen you come to speak, it is a good thing, and here is the point of the debate, where this appeared, which you have referred to, this ad or article or post or writing, I would only be interested to know, because if this is so, as you have said, I would like to join in your separation. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács presents a document.]]
u2017-11-30-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács asked for the floor, but I respectfully ask that you just explain and not show everything that is in front of you, because then you will exhaust the error of unnotified ophthalmology. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: A hundred thousand!]] Which is sanctioned. But I think that Mr President's routine will allow us to know this press product in which this ominous advertisement has been published. Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács has the floor. Congressman!
u2017-11-30-19	Yes, thank you. I'll be very brief. Unless, on purpose, I think more about Congressman Bárándy... - I was just saying that with the kind of consultation that I understood about the speech, that is what I disagree with. This part of the debate can therefore be concluded here. I am convinced, and I would add so much to my own position; it is not a coincidence that if it had already been mentioned here before, and in a historical context that even at the royal board, the seven-man board, for centuries, they had made sure that the number of Protestants and Catholics was the same, because it was obvious that if there was a slippage on either side, then the politician would have been like, 100, 200 or 300 years ago, it doesn't matter that from now on he could fall on the ground of politics even when it was a concrete judgment. And that would be unfortunate. Consequently, I think that the statutory tasks are those which are prescribed, they must be respected, and I believe that then the functioning of the courts is also guaranteed.
u2017-11-30-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. The final words of the report and the authors of the proposal for a decision will now take place. First, I would like to ask President Peter Darák if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. I'll ask you, about the podium? [[Dr. Peter Darák: Yes.]] Or the location? He wants the podium. We'll wait for Mr. President to come up here. Mr President, 30 minutes in the debate is your timeframe. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-21	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Obviously, those comments on my report were not made in order to respond to them at the plenary session. As in previous years, we are now processing these comments and we want to make use of them in the work of the Curia. Indeed, in previous years, I have always stressed that criticism is more important to me than words of appreciation. I must say, however, that this year has had exceptionally many words of appreciation for the operation of the Curia, which I would like to thank specifically, and I would like to point out that I will convey these words of appreciation to my fellow judges, whose work has largely established the basis for this. So, on behalf of my fellow judges, thank you for the words of appreciation, and thank you for the critical comments that will help us to do our work even more carefully next year. [[10.40]] I would like to point out that I would like to talk to the President of the Judicial Committee, Mr Imre Vejkey, about whether the proposal made by Mr Bárándy can be achieved in some way or not. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Thank you very much.]] I would also like to point out that, with Mr Gábor Staudt, we seem to be reading the decisions of the legal unit differently. 1/2016 as referred to by the European Parliament and the Council. PJE. Point 3 of the University Decision contains a specific interpretation for the benefit of foreign exchange taxpayers when the instrument considered by the banks to be a unilateral declaration of rights is simply not recognised as the right to form resulting in the conclusion of the contract and its amendment or termination. Finally, I would like to raise a question that was partly mentioned at the committee meeting, but has some current content. Both Mr Imre Vejkey and Mr Imre Vas affected the system of division of cases during the committee hearing. In recent times, a number of press opinions have been issued to the public which have expressed bias in relation to the person of the Court of Justice or the Judge of the Curia. And the treatment of this bias has been linked by these press opinions to the exercise of the authority of the President of Curia. This connection isn't real. The Curia cannot handle bias issues by defining the distribution of cases. The structure of the Curia's division of cases is based on a college and judicial Council opinion by 10 December each year. This, as in previous years, this year, is in progress and will happen. However, if there is a suspicion of bias against a judge, it shall be enforced in the relevant legal proceedings, in the existing and legal order of procedure. This can happen in two ways. Either the judge announces that he does not feel that he is able to judge the case impartially, and in this case, on the basis of his statement, another judgmental council of the court shall act, or the head of the college shall appoint, by administrative authority, another council to consider the matter. The other solution is that if, in the opinion of the party to the dispute, an objective consideration of the case cannot be expected from the determining board, the procedural rules allow for the application for exclusion. This request for exclusion shall be examined by another Chamber of that court. Dear Parliament, With this addition, thanking you for your comments and your attention to the work of the Curia, I continue to ask for the adoption of the report. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-30-22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am now asking Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] He wants to answer. Here you go, Mr. Chairman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this debate to be extremely positive, which has now taken place before this House. On the one hand, because I believe that all the parliamentary factions who took the time to come and speak this morning about the 2016 report by the President of the Curia expressed positive opinions. He expressed positive opinions, even if he does not support it, but will abstain at the end of the vote. My fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, raised a comment, in fact, on the Commission's debate. So it is necessary to clarify the fact that this was not an answer to a question in a system of debate, structurally, logically, [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Just an honest opinion!]] on behalf of one of our fellow Members, but side-by-side debates with my colleague Gergely Bárándy and one of the Vice-Presidents. I also asked them to pay attention to the speaker, perhaps the President of the Curia was the speaker at the time, but it may be Tünde Hando, already... [[Intercoms: Péter Polt! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Péter Polt. But I didn't hear what Gyula said.]] Peter Polt was the Attorney General; we listened to many then. So, Peter Polt was the Attorney General. I didn't hear that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Neither do I.]] [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Neither do I.]] And many of us, sitting next to me, did not hear it (Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Neither did I!) My colleague Gergely Bárándy did not hear either, nor did my fellow Member Imre Vas hear what Mr Vice-President said. However, I think that what we have said before this House is clear: we have great respect for the operation of the Curia, and we believe that independent judges are doing their job and doing their job excellently. That is why we accept their 2016 accounts. Otherwise, if we didn't think so, we wouldn't accept it. I think that vice-president too - I know because I saw him - voted in favour of accepting the work of the Curia. So, in the event that this was actually said in such circumstances, in this context, he would have voted against the adoption of the Curia's activities in 2016, but he voted in favour. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The faction discipline is a great force!]] Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like to ask you to continue to support this report. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-30-24	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. I would like to thank President Peter Darák for personally participating in the debate. I would also like to thank Vice-President István Kónya and his colleagues for following the development of the debate here on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, We wait for Tünde Hando to arrive, take his place and continue the debate. [[Dr. Tünde Hando enters the Chamber and takes his place.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The 2016 report by the President of the National Court Office and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the National Court Office B/17673. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/18541. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. Dear Parliament, I warmly welcome Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, and our guests who have come to the trial of this proposal, who are monitoring our work today from the lodges. I now give the floor to Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, the author of the report. We'll wait for Madam President to get up to the pulpit and tell her report from here, the pulpit. Here you go, Madam President. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The judges are independent and are subject only to the law and cannot be ordered in their judicial activities. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: In theory!]] The courts carry out judicial activities. The supreme court body is the Curia. The Curia ensures the unity of the application of the law of the courts. The central administration of the courts is carried out by the President of the National Court Office, and the National Judicial Council supervises the central administration of the courts. I quoted it from the law on the court organisation. This law, which was born in this Parliament, and the Fundamental Law provides a clear briefing on what the Curia and the National Court Office are responsible for. President Darák and I are also used to symbolize this system of relations by saying that the Curia is the lighthouse, which shows with its lights to sailors at sea how they can reach shore or sail safely, so what the content of the case may be; and it is the job of the National Court of Justice to keep this organisation operational at all. [[10.50]] Because the court organization gets a million and a half cases a year. This means millions of people who are connected to the courts as plaintiffs, defendants, defendants, witnesses or experts. 11,000 employees receive customers in 185 buildings, and in 2018 we have a budget of 118.5 billion. It is an incredibly important task to ensure that this extremely large organization can function and operate in a functioning way at all. It is also very important that the court organisation preserves its traditions, while at the same time complying with Article XXI. The challenges of the century. That is why in court management, administration, we also use administrative and management methods known from the operation of a good state or even from the private sector, such as the service model, customer focus, satisfaction measurement, project launch or pilot programs, in other words. Of course, as many people, as many perspectives, as many approaches. We look at a high mountain from several sides, more roads can lead up, but the goal is common: to get to the top. As József Eötvös wrote, "All mountains end in the peaks, lift up bravely, and from the bottom of the mountain you will meet on the roof." The strategic objectives of the administration of the judiciary were set in 2012 and the relevance of these objectives has not been questioned in the last six years. What are these goals? The most important reason why the courts even exist is to have timely and high-quality, well-founded judgment by independent judges. But to do so, we need to manage human resources well to make good use of material resources. The next, our fourth strategic goal is to maintain the integrity of the judicial organisation, to ensure transparency in the case-law and administrative work, and to ensure that the administration is predictable. Simplifying access to the court is our next goal. Given the abundance of legislation, being a judge is a lifelong learning exercise, so it is very important that the training is focused and that we work together with the rest of the professional order. There is no way that the 2016 report, which has been more extensive than in the last year, is presented in detail, so I would like to highlight some areas, above all the most important, which can be shown in figures, the high quality and timely judgment. That's synonymous with good justice. Good justice is part of a good state. The effectiveness of the functioning of the judicial organisation also affects the functioning of the State Organisation. But how to measure the effectiveness of justice? When we talk about the indicators of good justice, we need and can look for objective measures, because that is how we measure everything around us, what is important. They measure the performance of athletes, thus measuring the performance of different cars, consumption, horsepower, and the performance of the courts, there are domestic and international standards, according to which order and ranking can be established. Hungarian statistics clearly show that our judgment is speeding up and that our professional standards are improving. According to the main case data for 2016, we have completed more cases than we have received. As I mentioned, nearly a million and a half cases have come in. Compared to the end-of-2015 data, we had a 10 percent reduction in our ongoing case at the end of the year, so we were able to reduce the backlog. In addition to the timeliness indicators, indicators showing the quality of the case are also positive. In district-court civilist cases, 92 percent of the judgments rise to legal force at first instance. Only 8.6 percent of appeals are cases where the court decides to dismiss. It is important to point out that the courts were also able to stand up in the case of dumping. I'm just setting an example here. In February 2016, at the District Court of Szeged, in connection with mass immigration, 105 border closed cases came in one day, as many as other criminal cases throughout the month of December, yet they were not damaged by all the customers in this district court who acted in their other cases. The Hungarian justice system does well not only in the domestic and international comparison, as the 2017 European Commission Justice Scoreboard shows that the second fastest administrative litigation in Hungary is ahead of us, only Sweden. The backlog in the administrative case is also the second lowest, but judges work in Luxembourg alone with fewer ongoing cases. However, the third lowest number of ongoing cases for all civilist cases is among the 28 EU Member States. The so-called "Service Court" programme ended in 2016, one of the objectives of which was the processing of cases pending for a longer period of time. From May 2015 to March 2016, the number of cases over two years decreased by almost 27 percent to 7199 pieces during the ten months of the programme. This was followed by our programme of sustainable development, of which the first of the three pillars aimed at strengthening the timeliness of the case, at least to maintain the results achieved; the other two pillars set out tasks and expectations in relation to customer relations and career development. The latter, i.e. the development of a career, is of the utmost importance, since the improvement in the quantitative and qualitative indicators of the case-law can result from the persistent and strained work of thousands of judges and judicial staff. The year 2016 was a turning point for the salary situation of court workers, because in recent years we have received very, very serious support for the development of infrastructure, buildings, information technology, there have been delays in the settlement of salaries. All this has happened with the performance of the courts showing signs of improvement on the international stage. Unfortunately, the salaries of judicial staff were not even competitive in domestic terms, leaving the court organisation has become incredibly high, and a judge cannot exist without well-prepared helpers and judicial staff. We have tried to sort this out in an internal system from 2016 onwards, by launching the so-called retention programme, which had a lot of elements that served the career of employees, and in this there were elements that were about monetary benefits, as savings, the length of deadlines, there are residual amounts, and we have tried equally to give this back to the employees in the entire court organisation, and by setting different standards and targets for the judicial career body. We have tried to reward the amount of time spent in the organization, the social need, the skills, but most of all, the additional performance, which, as I have already mentioned, has been shown in the numbers. While in 2011, a court worker received an average HUF 22 000 bonus, in 2016 this amount was 509 thousand forints. But more serious things have happened. In particular, there were promising changes in 2016. I'd like to start by bringing up law enforcement personnel, for example. After 12 years, these salaries could have moved from the deadlock. [[11.00]] For judicial staff, this legal provision was prepared in 2016, providing an additional cost of 6 billion, resulting in a salary increase of 8287 judicial staff. On average, the workers received a 30% increase, going back to 1 January 2017. 95 percent of court secretaries are appointed secretary for independent administration, whose salary now ranges from 400 to 600 thousand forints. By offering fair compensation to the workforce supporting judicial work, we rightly expect judges to receive quality support. However, there has also been a change in judges, since after 12 years, three steps from October 2016, the judicial salary could rise by three times five percent, a total of 16 percent. I hope that in the coming years it will be possible to increase the budgetary resources that can be spent on staff expenditure. However, I must also point out here that, in terms of operation, IT and buildings have had an incredible increase in resources in the court organisation, the court's budget has increased by one and a half times; indeed, it has given rise to very serious improvements. When we talk about court careers, it is very important that for everyday well-being, and then for good work, it doesn't matter at all how judges and workers live their daily lives. As part of this Sustainable Development Programme, the courts have started to deal with a great deal in improving living conditions. I am happy to report that this year four courts, Debrecen, Egri, Gyula and Szeged, have won the title of family-friendly employment. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is part of the career path that we have the opportunity to make progress on which to allow me to say a few words about judicial and judicial executive applications. The legal status law clearly regulates who can be a judge, the process of judging the application is very, very complicated, multi-player. First, the judges will rate and rank applicants. The President of the Court may decide not to support the first, second or third place. The president of the OBH then has the right to accept this presidential proposal or to refer the candidate to the president of the public office according to the ranking. However, if we deviate from the ranking, the National Judicial Council will enter, which ultimately has a right of veto over this decision. From 2012 to 16 we launched 706 judicial applications, of which 649 were successful, 604 decisions were in line with the order of the judiciary, 45 were different. These have been agreed by the National Judicial Council. In five years there were only 57 unsuccessful applications, and there were always objective reasons for failure; for example, there were no applications or applications were not valid, because the applications were submitted without an aptitude test, but there were also work organisation reasons behind nullity. But since January 2017, the district court in Szentmiklós was established by taking over the district court area of Ráckeve. This meant that the posts of judges in the district court in Szentmiklós were actually filled by judges in Ráckeve without applying for a transfer. As far as court management applications are concerned, and not in any other public body, judicial communities also have an opportunity to express their views. There are 747 judges in the organization, and the President of the National Court of Justice can decide on the appointment of only 119 judges. It is the responsibility of appointed leaders to solve local problems. Therefore, it is important to appoint leaders, to be leaders in the organization who are able to deal with the problems of individual courts, who are able to ensure the functioning of the courts, to be described in time to ensure that cases move forward in time. This is all the responsibility of the court presidents. I would also like to talk about tangible resources, because, as I said, budgetary resources, and this actually shows the government's attitude towards the court organisation, have grown enormously compared to previous years. While our budget was 77.5 billion in 2012, it was HUF 92 billion in 2016, and in 2018, we will be able to manage from HUF 118.5 billion, including EU developments. I would also like to thank the Parliament and, of course, the government for their support. For example, with a conscious and thoughtful design in the field of building development, we strive to ensure that the buildings also provide customers and workers with a worthy appearance, appropriate to an acceptable, civilised administration and work. Just as government windows are the faces of a good state, we would like to create customer centres in the courts. How great would it be if a client in Debrecen didn't have to travel to Szombathely in order to look into his documents, to be interested in the state of his affairs, but also to be informed at the district court in Debrecen! That's what we're trying to do with customer centers. The size of the task is well understood by the fact that in 2016 there were 185 buildings in the management of the property of the court organisation, which means almost 500 thousand square meters of building. There are 75 historic buildings among them. All buildings that are being rebuilt or renewed can also be regarded as masterpieces in architecture. For example, the district court building in Debrecen has been awarded a prize. But soon we will be able to hand over the building of the Egri Tribunal, which is already being reported by a number of newspapers. This shows that as they were able to restore the Parliament's building here, old memories can be preserved. I've only brought a few numbers from IT. While the courts had 227 laptops in 2011, I can see that in addition to the iPads, you still use laptops, well, by 2016, you can use almost 4,000 laptops in the courts. So every judge has a mobile device. You can't overestimate the importance of information technology. As Henry Ford said, if I'd asked the customers what they wanted, they'd have said a faster horse. CHAPTER XX It's from the beginning of the century. But who now thinks of horses as means of transport? We don't think about that. There is no doubt that paper administration can be improved here, but the future is actually the digital court. Several applications have already helped to deal with court cases over the Internet. For example, customers' convenience is served by the existence of a so-called percalculator. So if you enter this system and file an action that can be brought in several courts, such as family-law cases, demolition lawsuits, you can decide, by looking at the litigation calculator, to file it in a court where the duration of the lawsuit is shorter. We have a text and e-mail notification system for lawyers and clients who have logged into this system. There are constant notifications of important events in their case. And there is an automatic system within the court to alert court time limits, as if the alarm clock were only speaking to the judges before a deadline. A lot of people already use so-called speech recognition and descriptive software in court on an experimental basis, which in the long term will result in the automatic description of the protocols. This will free up a lot of workers, and we will have more human resources in addition to judges who can help with quality work. [[11.10]] Our goal is to be independent of time and space. A lawyer should be able to file his petition even at 10:00 p.m., so that he can look into the lawsuits if he's interested; at any time, we'll be available to everyone. We are preparing for this full online administration and, of course, we would also like our decisions to be available, so we are renewing the collection of so-called anonymous decisions. All these developments were prepared in 2016. What is the biggest challenge for us, besides electronics, is all thanks to you. In particular, the pace of legislation, since in 2016 only 159 laws and 501 government decrees and a number of ministerial decrees were issued. These regulations and laws must be known to the courts. But the biggest challenge, and we have actually dealt with it from 2016 onwards, will be the three major codes of procedure for us. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Justice for the supportive attitude that we have seen for years now, that they are always counting on our comments, that they take these comments seriously, and I am sure that I see this in the figures showing the performances, that it is very important for these opinions to be formulated in the judicial body, because they are actually serving to ensure that the application of the law is as the legislator has dreamed. And, of course, it is not enough to create legislation, but also to keep it alive. We will be faced with a huge challenge by the administration's rules of procedure and civil procedure in force from January 2018. I always compare this to the changes in traffic regulations, as this means a change for us, that what has been a one-way street can now be collected from several directions, where it was forbidden to pass, now it can be prevented, or vice versa. It is of great importance for judges to be fully prepared from these rules, since it is not the authority of the judge, it is not that he is wearing a robe and sitting on a pulpit, but that he knows the rules of conduct best in the courtroom, because a case from the point A is only allowed to arrive and end on the basis of procedural laws. To support this, we set up three projects already in 2016. There are judges involved in this project, and we have dealt with legislative opinions, training and support for administration at the same time. As regards the civil order alone, we have prepared a 1800-page curriculum, 23 judges in Curia have reviewed 68 judges' work for three months, and these materials were not made in the traditional way, but podcasts, audio files, video recordings were taken during the training. This means that any judge on his mobile device can download these materials. They are always available, in any emergency or at all, until the new provisions are applied, the preparation can happen at any time on the part of the judges. Of course, these changes also pose great challenges for customers. And we think, and we can help you with that, the Justice Department, that informing clients is also a very serious task. This was the last time we talked about the importance of communication on behalf of Congressman Turi-Kovács. It is very important here that customers have sufficient knowledge of their rights and arrive at the courts in a way that they know what kind of submission they have to submit, what kind of levy they have to pay, and I think that we have the greatest responsibility in this regard. Dear Parliament, Since 2012, it has been important leadership experience for me to turn to innovative intentions with sufficient openness and respect, but in all cases, caution must also be exercised, and consideration must be given to the opinions of everyone affected by the change. In the words of Ferenc Deák, as our national beauty progresses, changing the spirit of the times, many old ones need to be abolished, many new ones to be created and much improved. In all areas of judicial administration, we work in a spirit of these thoughts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-30-26	I thank Madam President for her report. Welcome, fellow Members, and welcome, dear guests. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a decision. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2017-11-30-27	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to welcome Dr. Tünde Hando here at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament as the President of the OBH, and to begin my expozee in the pre-op by congratulating him on his work, which has greatly contributed to the fact that the independent Hungarian courts are all able to make a fuller transition to the path of service court and sustainable development, as a result of which customers can get to professionally founded, final court decisions more quickly. Ladies and Gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 November 2017, the Judicial Committee discussed the report on the activities of the National Court Office in 2016 and supported its adoption by 8 yeses and 4 non-voting votes. President Tünde Handó highlighted the following four issues during the hearing of the Justice Committee: the quality and timeliness of the case-law, human resources management, the digital court and the adaptation to the changing legislative environment. In the view of the Justice Committee, the achievement of the professional and strategic objectives set out by the President of the OBH is well on track. The Committee considered it particularly important to implement timely and high-quality judgments at all Court levels simultaneously, to ensure the integrity of the judicial body, transparency of the case-law and administrative work, as well as its predictability and control. The Committee considered it a priority to maintain and strengthen confidence in the courts and to implement a programme for the Service Court, which was launched to preserve the independence of judges, resulting in a reduction in the number of litigation cases pending over two years by more than a quarter. The Judicial Committee also welcomed the Sustainable Development Programme announced by the President of the OBH in 2016 in order to further strengthen the judicial organizational development and the effectiveness of the work, with a view to preserving the results already achieved, achieving high-quality and timely judgment and enforcing the nature of the court's service provider. [[11.20]] In the view of the Justice Committee, the efforts outlined in the President's report have brought their results. The European Commission's Justice Scoreboard shows better every year that the performance of Hungarian justice is already at the forefront of Europe. As regards the speed of litigation, we are sixth in civilist cases, preventing Sweden, the Netherlands and France. In administrative matters, we are second after Sweden. In the backlog of the case, the third least of our backlog is our civilist backlog, thus preventing Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands and France. In terms of administrative backlog, only Luxembourg was able to prevent us, because otherwise we are second in the European ranking. There is a great deal of effort to be made by the courts and, personally, by the judges, by the executives, by the workers who are helping the work, whose work I would like to thank from here too. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Judicial Committee is set out in Annex B/17673. No 84 of the House Rules. In its proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act, the Parliament is recommended to adopt it. Please support this report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In its proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, Parliament is recommended to adopt it. Please support this report. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2017-11-30-28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Pál Völner indicated that he would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. The lead speaker time frame shall be 30 minutes for each fraction. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-11-30-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to state that the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance supports the National Judges Adoption of a report on the activities of the President of the Office in 2016. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Court Office! Hit his name.]] Dear House, Please allow me to summarise in my speech the report on the activities of the National Court Office last year. The President added the written information orally, both at the meeting of the Judicial Committee and at the plenary session. In particular, I would like to highlight four themes, which have been defined as the strategy of the President of the OBH: the quality and timeliness of the case-law, human resources management, the digital court and adaptation to the changing legislative environment. Let me state that the provisions of the Fundamental Law state that judges are independent and solely subject to the law, cannot be ordered in their judicial activities. The Hungarian judicial administration is its own, that it is completely organisationally independent of the executive power. The role and responsibility of the central administration falls within the competence of the President of the OBH, which is limited by legislation on the one hand, and the National Council for the Court of Justice on the other hand. is supervised by the Parliament and is subject to a reporting obligation. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to what the President of the OBH himself thinks of the main results of 2016. I believe that the courts have fulfilled their constitutional obligations and have judged them to a high standard. In terms of numbers, we can say that 1 million 411 thousand cases have arrived, and the ending is nearly 3 percent higher than this case number. This means that the courts do not produce a backlog of the case, but, on the contrary, reduce it. The remaining cases decreased by 10 percent at the end of 2016 compared to the end of 2015, because while at the end of 2015 there were 334,000 cases, this fell to 319 thousand at the end of 2016. This means for customers that if the judge has fewer cases, then the individual citizens or individual companies' cases will be brought before a judge sooner, they will be able to be filmed faster by the court. It should be pointed out that 88 percent of cases will be completed within a year. With regard to quality, we need to look again at numbers, which show that 92 percent of final civil cases in the district court are going to rise to legal force here, with only 8 percent appeal. As regards judicial independence, the right of individual judges to refer directly to the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union is of paramount importance. These initiatives and their outcome are up-to-date to the judiciary on the court's internal central website. Dear House, The fact that, in addition to managing foreign exchange-credit cases in 2016, the additional burden on courts to carry out the tasks arising from the crisis caused by mass immigration was not to be neglected, but, in the same way, there was an additional burden on civil society organisations to register for change, for which the courts were clearly in line. In 2016 the president of the OBH launched the retention programme in order to keep the workforce and ensure reinforcements. The aim of the programme is to ensure that both the period of service in the courts and the recognition of additional qualifications and the support of judicial staff and members of their families with extremely low incomes are implemented. This objective also includes the development of a career model, where they help improve the quality of life of workers. This means that 97 percent of the 8287 main judicial staff received a salary increase in 2016, which meant an average increase of 30 per cent. As regards the IT structure: in 2016, there were 3009 laptops already in use, as the President mentioned. This means ten times more than 2011, so judges have modern tools, and if I have read it correctly in the report, it will not be possible to open a debate on whether the court has recorded what happened at the hearing well if it is also done with the recording device. Electronic communications became mandatory in civil proceedings as of 1 July 2016. In April 2016, an e-per contact network was established to facilitate the smooth operation of the e-per network. The network can also help and resolve educational tasks on the ground, answering questions, making suggestions, channeling comments, providing information, contributing to the development and legal consultation tasks that have arisen. Not least, it should be noted that the biggest challenge that the courts, the three new Codes, are now facing as a legislator is that the legislation created by Parliament should work in practice, so that the Curia has prepared 1800 pages of teaching material and several trainings have been carried out. New rules on administrative litigation will be a new task; 200 new judges will be appointed for this reason. This takes place in eight regional centres, where new buildings need to be built, physical equipment must be provided and new types of cases must be prepared. The four objectives set by the President of the OBH, i.e. the quality and timeliness of the case-law, human resources management, the digital court and the adaptation to the changing legislative environment, have been achieved. I also mention the Open Court programme mentioned by OBH, in which the courts reached 50,000 young people last year. Within the framework of the programme launched by the Office, high school teachers are informed of the most basic legal knowledge in their classrooms. I think it is important that lectures, in line with age characteristics, place a great deal of weight on issues such as youth victimization, juvenile delinquency, Internet crime, drug abuse or the right of students to enter the world of work. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the comments and figures mentioned above, I can say that the very detailed report covers all issues which may be partly of interest to the Members of Parliament and partly to the public. The President of the National Court of Justice has legally and constitutionally administered the external administration of the courts, so I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the report with their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-30-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[11.30]]
u2017-11-30-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, on behalf of myself and my group, I would like to thank all Hungarian judges and judicial staff for their work in 2016. A former Ukrainian MP of Hungarian origin, based on his experience in his own country, told me about 2013 that Hungary is progressing very well on the path to demise democracy, but the system destroys the rule of law across generations if the court fails. Today, the judiciary is the last bastion of the rule of law, i.e. in today's public law system, it may be more fortunate to say that its witness mountain, because the castle is no longer in ruins, so there is no such thing as a bastion. Unfortunately, the judiciary today is not only responsible for judgment, but also for the fate of Hungary, for future generations. We thank you, therefore, not only for your work but also for your courageous stand and your perseverance. I would also like to say that we recognise several things mentioned in your report as a result of the OBH. I would like to highlight three of these: we are pleased that in 2016, data on the timeliness of the case-law continued to improve, adding that this is only subject to a positive assessment if the quality of the case does not deteriorate as a price. We welcome the OBH's activity with regard to the opinion of the legislation, particularly in the case of the Codes. And we acknowledge the efforts of the OBH to develop and renovate the courts. All of this, however, is affected by the problems that threaten judicial independence. In the year covered by the report, the president of the OBH declared 9 out of 25 management positions to be ineffective, and 28 out of 122 judges' posts became ineffective. According to news, there were some who didn't include a justification, which is why a colleague of his sued the OBH; I note that the judge who acquitted former socialist minister György Szilvasy. Is that the problem? In the past, I have expressed constitutional and rule of law problems in connection with this regulation and its related practice, and today we see that theoretical problems have become practical, and more and more signs and feedback indicate that the failure to declare proposals has not been caused by the organisation of work, but rather by the OBH, to be more precise: the failure to meet your expectations is the real reason. If that is true, it is a question of judicial independence. For you, Madam President, it has been your method for many years that, if you do not like any of the candidates, you will declare them ineffective, even several times, and then appoint your own choice temporarily for one year. Then, after a year, he becomes the sole candidate for five years. And the rest of you know very well that it's not worth applying for you. There is tension on the outside of the court, judges are suing the court for integrity regulations in Strasbourg and in the Constitutional Court, and because of the practice of declaring applications ineffective, the Hungarian court is suing the court. There is a statement in the press about the problems, about the same content as they said earlier. And according to the latest news, your former deputy in the OBH, the President of the Buda District Court, says you're using your disciplinary powers to prevent the election of critical judges in the National Judicial Council that controls you. He also initiated proceedings for this. Scandalous scandal, Madam President. This alone would be a worrying sign, but it could be said, as you did in the Commission debate, that these are not general phenomena, but isolated cases. It would still be a warning, since no one has ever said or done anything like them now. But there is much more to it, this phenomenon also coincides with a statement from the members of the organization. And what is true evidence is that it is a widely represented position in the courts that, precisely because of your practice of declaring applications ineffective, the judge who brought the lawsuit against OBH and took it publicly, as well as his colleague who criticized the press, received iron applause at the General Court meeting, and they were perhaps elected by their colleagues to elect the new judicial council with the greatest voting rate. This is not good, and this is the responsibility of the number one leader. And speaking of this topic: I asked Madam President in the Commission debate whether it is also true that several places have been confirmed that court leaders are obliged to consult with the OBH during their public speeches, to send a draft statement of their speech, and that, in the case of applications, it is expected to include words of praise on the OBH's activities. Because if that's true, it's a big problem. I hope, Madam President, that you will clearly deny these today, because you have not done so before the committee. Well, you had the time. It was just our time frame. This is interesting only because their press regulations, which have been spoken about in the media, reflect this very central approach, and its integrity code is so central that the petitioners believe it violates the right to a fair trial, freedom of expression, effective redress and freedom of assembly. Quoting a fellow judge on this matter:, You cannot be independent of a legal institution and independent of a branch of power whose members must comply with a person's current values and principles. Well, I can't really argue with that statement. And what is the real topicality: here, during the debate, we have received the news, Madam President, that the Constitutional Court has just today repealed the said integrity code - I do not know if you are hearing this from me for the first time - it was considered that several provisions of the Code, such as the initiative of judicial accountability and the application of legal consequences, violate judicial independence and the right to appeal. There were separate opinions attached to it, and I could not read them in detail yet, but the interesting thing was that, in principle, those who expressed a separate opinion did not think that the decision contained in the decision was not correct - I say it in the sense that your integrity code is in order - but these separate opinions are about the fact that not only these parts, but all of them should have been repealed; because this will otherwise cause incoherence in the legislation. [[11.40]] Well, in line with this, in evaluating the statement of the President of the Budapest Surrounding Court, I think that there is no other conclusion to be drawn, Madam President, that I must say that he must resign. I've never told you that before. I've criticized your work a lot, but it's not a political hangover right now, I mean that. After the Constitutional Court has said that your integrity policy, which, in its genre, is the order of the President of the OBH, is unconstitutional and violates judicial independence, I think that this is what it will lead me to, especially once again, if I put the sentences of the President of the BKT in the wrong, Madam President. And speaking of this subject, I also asked the President about court wages; I think we should move on to this in the absence of time. You have assessed as a result that after 12 years you have achieved a wage increase of 3 times 5 per cent. I don't think any judge other than Madam President will see this as a success, and you're the only one. I'm not even saying he didn't do everything he could to get a decent raise. Even though you are the godmother of one of the Prime Minister's children, and your husband has been a fidesz congressman since the change of regime, and my brother's affairs today are the Renaissance, the best proof of the Prime Minister's gut hatred of judges. Three times five percent, Madam President. When they receive and receive the multiples of this everywhere in the public sector, and the salaries of judges are a driving force in the European Union. So, we understand your situation, Madam President, but that's all, but it's not a success. In fact, we'll live to see the Prime Minister. His dictatorial thinking, the order of the autocratic, illiberal state, the NER does not fit into an institution that does not carry out its instructions, or at least does not function according to his expectations. And the justice system, despite numerous attacks and attempts by the government, doesn't work that way. Therefore, the government refused to raise the salary of the judges. But there was a problem. The judicial staff have started to migrate from the court - and Madam President has now pointed out in her speech what she has said - because they have not been able to make a living on the percentage of their earnings linked to the salaries of the judges. There were times when a full guard resigned, and they went to a multi-storer, where they received a significantly better salary. This has put the functioning of the court system at risk. What was the solution? Raising the salary of judges would have automatically increased employee wages. But you couldn't have done that. Therefore, the wages of the judicial staff were separated from those of the judges, so that it could be raised separately and linked to the wages of other public sector workers. Which I have a problem with in principle, but I'm not talking about right now. This led to two things that I had already indicated in the debate on the bill. One of them is that there's serious wage tension. For example, it has become a common phenomenon that novice judges earn less than some secretaries. Which, I think, is not well. The second is that, since public sector wage rules are applied to judicial staff, there is no more indication of how timely a substantial increase in the salaries of judges would be. Speaking of secretaries. In the Commission's debate, I asked Madam President if she agreed to the extension of the powers of the secretaries from time to time. Then he didn't answer; I hope he will now. We are of the opinion that this is a harmful and dangerous process. It is not by accident that certain proceedings are referred to judicial authority. That's because it requires independent judicial status. The secretary's not a judge. He's a law enforcement officer. In spite of the freedom of decision similar to that of a judge in these cases, the judge does not have independence in his status. We are therefore not discussing the skills and professional skills of the secretaries, not whether they are able to make informed decisions in matters referred to in their respective competences, but rather the level of independence. The majority of cases referred to their jurisdiction are simple cases, which judicial staff could prepare for judges and the decision will be taken by the judge. In other words, the solution would be to increase judicial assistance rather than to increase the powers of secretaries. Not least, it would be cheaper. The secretaries would not fall out of the process of learning substantive case-law because they are crowded with dozens of cases and have no time for anything else. In the absence of a reply, I would like to ask you once again whether you agree with the IM regulation that changed it, in the case of the tender point system, you halved the number of so-called subjective points. For the sake of clarity, Madam President, because you seem to have misunderstood this at the committee meeting, it is not my question whether it was justified to change the point system, because I agree that it is. I'm asking specifically about changes in subjective points. We fear that, after the plan to set up a Fidesz party court - pardon, officially known as the Supreme Administrative Court - has bled out in the absence of a two-thirds grant, this amendment will prepare the appointment of judges from the administration. Did the OBH, the Jury Association, the Curia take this view? If so, what was the result? The issue is also relevant because, in your interview this morning, Madam President has confirmed that 200 administrative courts are being issued, and this coincides accidentally with a change in the point system. On the basis of what we have just said, this greatly strengthens our assumption. In relation to your interview, I note that it may not be appropriate that, instead of answering our questions at the Commission hearing, you do so in an interview published in the newspaper of the Prime Minister's stróman Lőrinc Mészáros, on the same day as you were hearing in plenary. Such timed interviews belong to the political world, Madam President, but you are not a politician, as far as I know. Finally, I would like to ask whether you do not mind or your colleagues that the Fidesz Vice-President of the Judicial Committee has spoken to the entire judiciary, and also in the context of the debate on your report. Even I resent that, and I'm a politician, and I'm in the Socialist Party. However, this comment, in the case of judges, clearly does not refer to ideological identification with the party of a dictatorial system, but to the fact that they are party to their judgments in that context. That is, their independence was challenged by Gyula Budai. You didn't have a reaction to that. In fact, the situation is worse: he said to express a journalistic question that he would not comment on it. Why not? You shouldn't be loyal to power, you should be loyal to your colleagues. The Hungarian Judicial Association has distanced itself from the statement and other similar statements experienced recently. I'd like to quote a few thoughts from your statement. The Hungarian Judicial Association regretted the fact that in recent days statements and opinions have been made by politicians who have advocated the rule of law, calling into question the independence of the judges and the judiciary, which are unduly offensive to the judges and the judiciary. These are often humiliating, exclusional and biased statements, capable of weakening the independence of the judiciary, inciting fear in the judiciary, and violating the principle declared in Article 26 of the Fundamental Law. I think those words, Madam President, are quite serious. And the communication continues with a call, I quote: "The Hungarian Judicial Association therefore calls upon the decisive actors of the legislative and executive powers to act decisively at all times in order to protect the rule of law and to distance themselves from statements that violate the independence of the judiciary, in agreement with the association. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I, in the name of the largest opposition group in the legislature, did so, and agreed to do so, and I will do so. [[Dr. Völner to Paul:]] I'm sorry that Secretary of State is laughing at that instead of you, you know? In fact, I called on the Prime Minister to do so in the context of an immediate question, who did not, and even called the judges a commie. [[Dr. Vas Imre: That's not true!]] Well, not all of them, like Gyula Budai, just some of them. So, I've done it here in the Parliament, replacing your failure so far, you have the opportunity to distance yourself, Madam President. [[11.50]] Do this, please. I don't think it's my job to stand up for the honor and independence of the judges in the first place, but yours. We used to argue a lot about whether the model of judicial administration set up in 2012 was a good one. So far, basically, we have had constitutional and theoretical debates on this. I think it began to prove in practice that it is not, more precisely, in the year covered by the report. This court model has failed and is not even capable of ensuring judicial independence in its present form. In previous years, I have said and I believe that this administrative model is not good for us, but after Fidesz was forced to withdraw at least 80% of the essential elements of the judicial reform, except for one element, it is now a rule of law. It is a surprising lesson for me, too, for the past one or two years, how the only non-status element of a very complicated system could have led me to conclude, however, that the model is not fit to ensure judicial independence in its present state. The best evidence is that constitutional and guarantee principles cannot be measured at a percentage level. There's only one that poisons the system. It would have been a solution if Madam President, as we have been asking of her for years, had not taken advantage of her power of declaration of inefficiencies. But he's alive, and let me put it this way, he's very much alive. And that, like every year, is a reason enough for us not to accept his account. [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] And because of these events, this is increasingly the case. Therefore, we have tabled a bill by Fraction Manager to increase the powers of the National Judicial Council and, in particular, to limit your powers of declaring proposals ineffective. We hope that you and the majority of Parliament will support it, and we hope that this basically flawed and wrong system will form part of the legal history lectures as soon as possible. The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group therefore does not support the adoption of the 2016 report of the president of the OBH. In our view, after the decision of the Constitutional Court, there is no justification for the adoption of the report, but for the resignation of Madam President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]]
u2017-11-30-32	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-11-30-33	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear OBH President, Mrs. As Chairman of the Justice Committee, I do not wish to repeat what has been said, but as a member of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party and its Deputy Group leader, it is important to say, as Christian Democrats, how positively we judge the operation of the OBH in 2016, in particular with regard to the fact that the leading speaker before me has done so in a negative direction. Ladies and Gentlemen, We Christian Democrats, on the basis of the 2016 report, find that the president of the OBH has been thoughtful with the human and material resources of the office, and has managed sparingly. Moreover, significant progress has also been made by the OBH in order to compensate for the judicial workload at national level. I must also point out that the development of the OBH clearly points in the direction that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should apply. The idea of an open and service court of the century is finally being implemented in Hungary. Madam President, Christian democrats find these results particularly supportive. A fuller extension of the possibilities of judicial online administration already presents the image of the digital court to be implemented, which, regardless of space and time, will allow the individual case files to be available to clients as well as their legal representatives from anywhere and at any time. We also find the efforts of the President of the OBH to ensure that the courts, both in their judgments themselves and in their judgments, strive for clarity in order to ensure that the administration of the courts and of the courts can be easily understood and understood not only for the people who have executed the law, but also for all our citizens. We consider it important to have judicial transparency, that is to say, that the case-law and administrative work are fully transparent and that administrative decisions are predictable and controlled. This requires continuous development, internal training and cooperation with the legal profession. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP seeks to achieve the concept of a good state, which is an essential element of justice, i.e. the balanced functioning of the court as a third jurisdiction, since the courts and judges themselves must also serve the values of legal order and security. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Christian democrats see that a large proportion of the courts and judges have also managed to cope with the extraordinary challenges, and have also coped with the crisis caused by mass immigration. Given that the year 2016 was the year of procedural codification, it was therefore a great task for the President of the OBH and the OBH itself to make a professional contribution to this preparation, and now, on the upcoming entry into force of the new Codes of Law, to ensure civil and administrative litigation and preparation for the application of criminal proceedings. At the same time, there has been a significant change in the functioning of the courts in terms of competence-based work, as well as in terms of ensuring a career worthy of judges and judicial staff - we also thank you for that. Greater emphasis will be placed on broadening customer relationship opportunities and enforcing the nature of the court service provider. In line with this, the OBH found it important to present the judicial work in a clear and direct way, to establish a communication capable of improving the social judgment of the courts. CHAPTER XXI The law itself empowers the President of the OBH to establish a high level of organisation of judicial activity in the 20th century, which obliges him to establish and update annually the long-term tasks of the judicial administration and the programme containing the conditions for their implementation. The importance and correctness of the strategic goals expressed by the President of the OBH, we believe and see that the results of recent years have clearly confirmed it. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the 2016 report of the president of the OBH is supported by the KDNP parliamentary group, because once again, we believe that the professional objectives set by the OBH are correct and not only correct, but also well achieved by those professional objectives. Please support the adoption of this report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2017-11-30-34	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-30-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President! Indeed, we have been through a heated committee debate on justice, or because of the time frame that we have challenged there, we have actually only been able to ask questions about the Jobbik faction, so we have actually not yet been able to express our opinions, but thank God we have more room here in plenary to express our concerns. This is also good, because if not elsewhere, the meeting will be broadcast and videotaped, so will the questions and the answers that have been answered. Of course, there is also an excellent record of committee meetings, but still, video recordings can have a greater impact and can better express the feelings that one thinks when discussing such a report. At the committee meeting, we were able to ask the President of the OBH twelve very specific questions. On the basis of the minutes, so we checked the minutes, we were able to identify five questions, but they were not meaningful either. It's not a good sign in itself. Although Madam President said that all complaints are a gift, in this case we have brought many gifts from the opposition, because we will highlight and say a few specific things, but we would very much like to have concrete answers to specific questions in some way. The political opinion is one thing, and it is obviously possible to look at it that way, and, of course, the opposition is always more critical, but here the possibility of one or two concrete violations of law in relation to the year 2016 and one or two specific procedural and regulatory violations, which I believe should have been dealt with by the Hungarian Parliament and, by the way, the Justice Committee, because the answers to these questions must be given, because if we do not do so today, believe me that they will continue to be more and more pressing every day. The meeting of the Judicial Committee also made it clear to me, and this was also reflected in Mrs President's replies that it was a piece of measure and a piece of adjustment point, which is dealing with the backlog, which is an important matter, no misunderstanding, but the measures taken to deal with the backlog must also be legal, otherwise well-meaning. They say the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Unlawfully or unlawfully, do not reduce backlog. Not to mention the fact that the number of cases in itself has only decreased by how much, does not yet say anything about whether these judgments were legitimate, fair, legal. So if we condemn everyone tomorrow - I'm going to turn the situation out of criminal proceedings - then the cases will go away, but obviously there will be a lot of unjust judgments between them. Therefore, the quality of judgments must also be emphasised. I also said at the committee meeting that it is a fundamental question and a fundamental point in these problems that the opposition has put on the agenda, which we also have on the agenda, that in this situation there is a legitimate question as to who is guarding the guardians, which body is able to judge and judge the case law of a current OBH President and the application of the rules. At the moment, there is only one National Judicial Council over the president of the OBH, who, on the other hand, depend to a certain extent on the current president of the OBH, as their progress depends on him - and we can see that it may depend on statements of inefficiencies - their election may depend on him if we consider disciplinary proceedings, which Gergely Bárándy also suggested. I'm not sure the current OBH president will take it, but he can live with it. What is even more problematic is that if the current OBH President uses these tools, there is virtually no body that can limit it. Obviously, OBT can only do this partially or, to say the least, may not do it. It seems that the Judicial Committee is not entitled to do so according to our pro-government fellow Members, so it is better not to bring up individual cases or violations of rights, it was a conspiracy. The Constitutional Court can partially do what it has now done, and I will address that. But basically only foreign forums remain, Strasbourg and the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg, but it is an unpleasant thing to bring these problems to a foreign scene. It would be better if the Hungarian legal system could handle them. Madam President said that I could pretty much sum up her answers, unfortunately with concrete answers to the specific questions that I asked, we didn't really get, but we saw two approaches. On the one hand, Madam President said that it was not her job to solve the specific problems of a court, that she was not responsible for the violations there. This is not entirely legally so, and I will also discuss this. But even if we were to accept this, then - and I can quote from the record here - Madam President, in other cases, on the question of why she tried to get involved in the appointment procedures, she replied that it was precisely her responsibility to appoint forensic presidents and judges who were able to run the court legally. So I think it's a little controversial. In one case, it is not his responsibility; in the other case, when we consider that he may have exceeded his authority, he explains, however, that he is responsible for ensuring the legality of the whole judicial system. The question we could no longer ask at the committee meeting was what if the leaders you put there in a questionable manner did not comply with the legislation, whose responsibility it was. By the way, it belongs to the head of the court and to you, but obviously someone has to be responsible for enforcing the law. It really hurts when these cases come up in the case of a top judicial agency. My fellow Members may know me so well that I like the facts, I like to stick to the facts, I like to ignore them, and I would definitely like to avoid personalisation. Therefore, I have prepared specific questions. I don't see where the Secretary of State is, because I'm going to... there's going to be some things I can ask them, but I hope he gets back. Well, I would like to reiterate the issues that have not been answered very well at the committee meeting and raise serious legal concerns about the operation. It has come up, and I think that this is a very serious issue, and I am thinking of the order of division here, that in the case of the Curia, it was precisely the Fidesz Members who asked President Darák about this and gave him great importance. That is true, by the way, it is of great importance to the order of division and the right to a legitimate judge. It seems that in 2016, the courts broke the rules on the adoption of the division of cases in bulk, so in most parts of the country there was a situation where the right to a legitimate judge simply did not prevail. I also raised this at the committee meeting. Madam President, he also said that he had no responsibility, given that it was the court leaders who had to do this. But it's your responsibility to check these leaders, as far as the presidents of forensics and tribunals are concerned. Obviously, in the case of district courts, this is not your direct responsibility. But I have to say that, according to my information, in 2016, several court presidents who are otherwise under your control violated their obligation to accept and disclose the order of division of cases. [[12.10]] This is particularly unpleasant - and I am very pleased that Mr Secretary of State has returned; we are talking about the order of division of cases and the legality thereof - because if it is true, and Mrs President has not refuted these points - you can still do so here - that these divisions of cases have not been completed, for example, on 8 February in the case of the Szeged Tribunal, on 30 August in the case of district courts belonging to it, in the case of the Miskolc Tribunal VI. It was adopted and announced on the 6th day of the month, if these are true, I do not want to go further on the facts available, for example, the migrant lawsuits on which Madam President mentioned the position, that is true, but if all of this is going to fall over because of the right to a legitimate judge, then someone must take responsibility for that. Madam President, I think that, if that is the case, there will be a few questions on the part of the government and the Prime Minister for you, since this matter is on the EU Committee on Petitions, if you can believe the news, it is precisely about the functioning of the Szeged Tribunal. You can imagine that if the right to a legitimate judge is violated in migrant trials and other lawsuits, then these decisions must be annulled, these decisions should be renegotiated. Otherwise, this could affect hundreds of thousands of lawsuits at national level. I think it is appropriate to address such a question in Parliament, and at least to say that these facts, which the opposition has divided, are not true, and to give some legal explanation. By the way, in the summer of 2016, Mrs President, regarding the distribution of cases, she was called to her attention by a public announcement and a complaint that there was a problem with the distribution of cases. Obviously, at that time, in mid-2016, the responsibility could have been established or corrected, because what was no longer adopted in an appropriate manner at the beginning of the year, and it did not work, the correction is difficult and there is the possibility of destruction, but at least to ask the judges who were involved in it if they were guilty. By the way, as I recall, the President of the Szeged Tribunal also brought him to the committee hearing, Madam President. From this point of view, it does not seem to be spoken out, or, if you are spoken out, please give specific answers, all the more so, because there are rumors within the court system that you are sending the same lady to the head of the Metropolitan Tribunal from 5 January. That's right, that's not true, obviously it's going to come out, January 5th will come quickly, but I think that these issues should be clarified. Then more questions that we didn't get answers to. How is it possible that two judges carrying out a case-law activity in 2016 were presumed to have carried out illegal activities and administrative activities in the National Court of Justice Office. We didn't get much of an answer from Madam President. Then we didn't even get an answer as to whether he had already issued answers to press inquiries regarding public interest requests for expert work in connection with the new Be. and e-suits. The numbers that have appeared are rather excessive. In the field of appointing practice, I also suggested that it was very odd and a specific case that a judge who did not have a certificate of competence at the end of the application deadline could be appointed to the Military Council of the Metropolitan Court, and that there were two judges who were considered more suitable before him, withdrew his application, and was one of the applicants who had never carried out military judging activities. Then, as I mentioned, the Metropolitan Tribunal's application: how could you, too, in violation of the law, have issued this application within 90 days? I would've waited for the answer to that, too. Then, in connection with the Metropolitan Court's tender, he declared this application to be ineffective twice in 2016, and then what God, your former deputy, who he had appointed, Csilla Ribai, put there first as an acting judge, and then, in an interesting way, he was already appointed. However, as I have said, this practice of declaring a failure is no longer just in relation to court leaders. This is what highlighted for me 2016 from the practice of the other years, that, as I said, we have now seen it in the Military Council and in other cases, they are also stealing for individual judges, not just for executive applications. So it could be that, by the way, the famous Csaba Vasvári case, who also filed a lawsuit against you, applied only for a simple seat, didn't apply for leadership, won the tender twice, won the tender for the third time; then they immediately appointed the winner of the first place. I will come back to this, by the way, but it is quite clear in this case that there is an infringement. Then we raised the conflict of interest issue in the press, if my fellow lawyers think about it, the question was - it also appeared in the media - how we might be talking about stories published in the press by an OBT member - otherwise we are talking about the President of the Szeged Tribunal, Tárkány-Szűcs Babett - Tamás Gerber, who is an OBT member, can be a partner of the President of the Szeged Tribunal, while the rules on conflicts of interest prohibit this. They say that if relatives are associated with the President of the Tribunal, they cannot be elected to OBT. That's a very clear question. If there is no answer, then we must assume that it is so, and if it is, there is a violation of the law. I also asked Madam President, once again a specific question, that when the National Judicial Council reportedly rejected her report twice, I do not know the detailed circumstances of this, perhaps the report on her appointment practice, what the circumstances of this, and why this could have happened. We should have heard about that, too. Neither was independence among judges when the news said that the metropolitan judges were expected to pass 10 judgments every month. It's an easy way to cut back on the case. One lawyer noted in the article that it would be good to negotiate with a judge on the 26th of the month, who has yet to pass eight judgments, and, let's say, a motion for proof is likely to be passed. These need to be clarified. Now I don't even go to these lingerie rules and things, because unfortunately, this is factual, but this has also been to the tabloid media. I have to say, that's probably not what the rules are for. However, I would like to point out that it is not just because Gergely Bárándy told me that he is alive, that he is not exercising his authority, that he should not exercise his authority. I don't think Madam President has that kind of authority. You do not have the power to declare a tender ineffective on grounds of organisation of work, if they do not actually exist. The problem is not whether we are discussing the exercise of powers or not, but whether it exists in this form. In addition, the Constitutional Court's decision - I propose to all to read - was quite clear, which stated that there was a failure to comply with the Constitution in 2013. It was precisely the point of the Constitutional Court's decision that it was necessary to properly regulate the grounds on which applications could be declared ineffective, to provide the law with a firm justification as to how the President of the Curia and the President of the OBH justify, to justify these proposals or to declare them ineffective, and to find out to the applicants concerned why their applications were not effective, what they did not comply with. If Madam President only writes in these proposals that there is no longer any reason to load it for reasons of organisation of work, then she does not therefore comply with the Constitutional Court's decision that would require more detailed justification. [[12.20]] Here it should be described what is the specific reason for organising work on the basis of which it is not justified to fill the post. Moreover, even the Minister's explanatory statement, which was presented to this effect and tried to remedy the defaulted constitutional violation, made it absolutely clear that this must happen. But what do we see? The fact that there is no justification, but in the Vasvári case, it happened twice that the President referred to the reasons for the organisation of work and then practically wrote out the application for the same job. This is not legal in my opinion, because when you wrote out these applications, you admitted that the reason for organising work you mentioned earlier was not real. You know better than I do, because you were a labour law judge for a very long time, and you're also a labour law judge, so if a private company refers to such reasons, let's say, restructuring, but it turns out that's not justified, that's why the labour court used to cancel it. So what we don't allow in private companies, we don't allow in court. The law doesn't allow it, anyway. The Vasvári case is also interesting because it has not been said, Madam President. It was very interesting that in a lawsuit against you you argued to journalists that a judge could not comment on the pending case. Well, it's about a case that's going on in front of him as a judge, not where he's one of the litigators. This means a completely different position. In addition, I know - and please respond to this, Madam President - that from the two actions, one of which may have been brought to you by Csaba Vasvári, it may not have been forwarded to the court or forwarded to the court by deadline. I believe that the legal deadlines should apply to everyone, and therefore to you. And it arises again who is guarding the guardians; if that is the case, then who can pronounce the infringement. Right now, it doesn't seem like anyone can do that. Then I told you the two judges, who were entrusted with central administration tasks, worked on the OBH, while doing judgmental activities. I would also like to know who will be responsible for this, because someone should take responsibility for it, if someone will refer to the judgments they have made in a rule of law, since they have been brought by judges subject to exclusion provisions. Then we asked, but we didn't get an answer to that, either, that in the so-called Hunnia case - but this is a fundamental issue, not the case - when the judge resigned, there was no judgment yet written down. How do you make up for that? Can this be dated back? I guess not. No other judge can sign it, because then we'd have to renegotiate the case. At the time, Madam President also claimed that she could not deal with all matters. But how interesting, according to my intel, who was supposed to be the former judge of Kesezék who was supposed to write it down as his chief of staff, was appointed by you in the sense that the General Court meeting allegedly did not support his appointment. So we can see that these errors are now made by the court leaders you appointed, often away from the opinions of the judicial councils and all-judge meetings. Our fellow Member Bárándy mentioned that today's Constitutional Court decision, that many points of the Integrity Code are illegal. It would have been nice when we signaled this, because we also signaled to Madam President in the spring, I remember, perhaps even last year, that we had problems with the integrity code, but we didn't get any concrete answers. The Constitutional Court has stated, which I think says quite a lot, that the provisions under consideration violate the right to appeal and judicial independence. I think these are quite serious findings, even if, in view of the special opinions, it could have been destroyed in a much larger part. By the way, I have the resolution of the Hungarian Judicial Association. Already in December 2015, they expressed concerns about the integrity code. So they told us before the launch that there was a problem. And by the way, the Hungarian Judicial Association does not speak in the voice of the most noble criticism, and I said it diplomatically; that if they say something about it, then it must be very illegal. My colleague Gergely Bárándy mentioned it, so I would not repeat how disciplinary practices can be abused. That it is true or not, but according to the press, it has indeed come to light that the President of the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal, Edit Hilbert, may not be able to take up OBT membership because he is subject to disciplinary action. It's a fox's pike. If he doesn't accept the decision, then disciplinary action is initiated against him and he can't leave, he can clear himself later - well, that's what he did. But if you accept that you've made a mistake, then you might have to admit a situation you wouldn't otherwise do. And one last thing, Madam President. I think that, when we put these criticisms through the years, we were driven by maximum goodwill, and we really tried to make it possible for Madam President to see that your task is not, by law, to choose who will be the court's leader or judge, but to guarantee the legality of the procedure. That's your job. This is not only a philosophical difference between our thinking, but the Constitutional Court also defined this in its 2013 and this morning's public decision. This is an important rule of law guarantee. I must also say what I said in terms of the reasons for the organisation of work, in terms of inefficiencies, that if these questions are not discussed and we do not receive factual, legally qualified answers, then the courts will go further on the way to depreciation, as far as independence is concerned. Believe me, this isn't good for you either, Madam President. Although there seems to be no forum to check it now, it seems that Parliament will never vote off its report, it seems that there is no forum that can determine anything, but I would like to say that if Mrs President's mandate has expired, or if Péter Polt's mandate expires - because Péter Polt's mandate will expire once too - or if another parliamentary assembly in its composition is given, I would stress that it will examine this practice simply without policy, focusing only on the legal arguments I have said here, and put it in an independent system, and Mrs. President will put her hand on her heart, then I am sure that this practice will not comply with the legislation. I do not want to quote facts here, but if these criticisms are true, and we expect Madam President to answer them, this could very easily be the case of a misdemeanor. I'm not sure they're gonna find that out, but if an independent body were to investigate this, I think that this could stop. It is not good for anyone to talk about such things, we want to have an honest debate in the courts, get honest answers, and make decisions that comply with the law. Everyone, the independent Hungarian court and I think the government and the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP would have an interest in clarifying these issues. Because believe me, with these professional debates going on, no one wins, Hungarian democracy does not win most of all, and in the future, adding a report would not be a good message if the atmosphere of moving into the court area would be that there might be illegal actions and procedures. [[12.30]] I would ask Madam President to stop these processes together. We provide all the help we can, if we see reception skills, then, of course, there can be some of this. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-11-30-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-11-30-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Madam President's exposé, he referred to the fact that sometimes it is good to measure with numbers, to measure with objective metrics phenomena that are not always easy to describe with objective numbers. Perhaps judicial independence is one of these qualities, the existence or absence of judicial independence, with numbers that may be difficult to describe. I think we did find a number in your account that was appropriate. I fear that this does not prove the independence of the Hungarian judiciary, but rather proves that this independence does not exist. This is an extremely shocking number for me - I asked in the committee whether it was true, but I did not get a rebuttal - that in 2016 only less than 120 proposals, perhaps 117 proposals, were successfully completed from 161 applications, management applications, and judicial appointment applications. This means that more than 40 were unsuccessful. In 25 percent and one quarter of the cases, the tender was unsuccessful. The question is whether there are so many inappropriate applications, so many incompetent judges, or if they were suitable, but for some reason you declared them ineffective because you didn't like them. It's a very serious thing. I can't believe this song. I think that this figure clearly indicates that it is difficult to talk about judicial independence in Hungary today. After all, if one person's progress is dependent on one person, and this man is the wife of one of the prominent members of the governing party, which would not be a problem in itself, but with this number placed in pairs, it is a problem and a concern, then it raises a lot of serious questions. In addition, it is important to know that these leaders, whose appointment is definitely up to you, will signal the cases to whom a particular case will be brought. And from here on out, it is not difficult to question whether these processes really happen independently. I don't think it's a coincidence that you were expecting this question, since you came to the Justice Committee with a little notebook. Unfortunately, I didn't take this notebook, if someone took it, I'd be happy to, because then you can have it out here, and it's worth introducing to the press. He came with a notebook, so he expected this question in the first place, and he knew it was a problem. This is a multi-page booklet showing this procedure and the data on how many applications there were, and what is the essence of this application. However, at the end of the booklet, on the last page, you can either accept the results of the application or not. Once again, I value the judiciary a lot more than accepting that there are so many incompetent candidates. Let me give you a metaphor here; I also said it at the committee hearing, but I would like to repeat it, because you have used very good, beautiful metaphors. I have to say that in my profession, we can also experience that sometimes an organization from the outside seems very healthy. Looks like everything's okay, an organization is alive, working well. However, there may be a very small defect hidden inside, and there may be a small, millimeter clot, a thrombus, and it can lead to the death of the body, and from then on that body is dead. I think if judicial appointments depend on only one person, true, there is a long process, true, there is a process that seems very objective, but only one person with one stroke of the pen can pull the whole thing out and not let it go until he gets the right person, then that organization is dead, that judicial independence is dead, there is no such thing as being independent. Madam President, Let me take advantage of it a little bit, or take advantage of the fact that a man is a Member, because under these circumstances, being a Member is not such a good thing if you really mean it, I have to say. Let me take advantage of this. I would like to show you a specific matter, and I would like to ask your opinion on this. I am afraid that the previous colleagues have also asked you a lot of concrete questions, but we will not get much answers to that, just as we have not received an answer in committee. We have heard a lot of concrete things, for example, about anomalies around appointments. I wouldn't like to introduce you to one of these, but I'm afraid this case is actually an outcome. It's a personal matter. A lot of people can't ask for an opinion on their personal affairs, but I think this case has a very serious, worrying detail. I was offended by a criminal case, and when this criminal case was being tried, the very last moment of it was quite amazing to me. In the criminal case, the defendant denied it all the time. It was a seven-hour trial, one day the judge discussed it, and we sat on this case for seven hours. The defendant denied me the whole time. Then the last act was that the judge asked if she still maintained that you were innocent. The defendant didn't say he was innocent, and he didn't say he was admitting what he did, but he said that if he had been in the car behind which he was running around with a handle with his arms raised, he would have been scared, too, if he had been in my shoes. That's all they said. The defendant sat down, the judge stood up and read the verdict. He read the verdict, a verdict in which he claimed that the sentence was so mild that the defendant admitted his actions. There was no such thing, but the verdict was already written, and it was stated in the explanatory statement that the defendant had confessed. Of course, as a simple citizen, I could do nothing else, I could write a letter to the President of the Pécs District Court, and he said that everything was fine, that there was no problem. I would very much like for you to talk about this case, or just two sentences in general, in your reply, about what it is like for a judge to practically write a judgment in advance and read it by putting a moment in it that he should not have known about. I think this seems to be a small matter, but in practice it is a very serious matter, and I fear that it can be a very concrete and direct consequence of the phenomenon that you are responsible for the appointment of judges, the appointment of senior judges, and then the decisions of these leading judges depend on the signature of cases. Although we are talking about a 2016 report today, we really cannot avoid the actuality of these weeks when, with a decree or government decree, they change the scoring of judicial appointments; no one seems to be involved, no one cares. At a time when the governing party wants to talk about one thing, let us not talk about Soros and anything else, such a small change - not a law, but just a government decision - seems to have little significance. However, in the case of judicial appointments, people who were not judges, but who worked in the administration, from one day to the next, may receive much more points in the scoring than even a secretary who had been in court for up to ten years, watched the work of the courts, took part in the work of the courts. Much less a candidate like you can get than someone who hasn't even been in court in his life, but has worked in the administration. [[12.40]] On the basis of the foregoing, it was very unliving to assume that this really has only one task: that people close to the governing party can be appointed as judges in the administration. By the way, let me say that the justification is itself, so the justification that you say is very important that the judge who is going to deal with administrative lawsuits is quite ridiculous to me, because there are judges who deal primarily with medical lawsuits and, in the best case, signing is automatic, but I think that doctors should be in the courts, too. Or are those who, say, deal with railway accidents and are supposed to be railroads? So I cannot accept why people who come from public administration and have no judicial experience should receive much more points than those who have already spent time in court in a lower position. With good reason, there is only one explanation for this: fill the courts with people loyal to the government. I apologise for the need to say this, but this is also of concern to us from the outside because of these phenomena. Finally, I would like to say so much and join the speakers before me that I do not see a very big success story in judicial salary increases, and I also think that you may see this as a success story of all judges. So that few times a few percent increase is not really felt by the judges, indeed the court's salary is at the bottom of the civil servants' salary at the moment. However, I would like to say and stress very much that, when we do not accept your report, we are not criticizing the courts, but we are criticising you, so we are criticising your report and not the Court's report. Finally, one more question that I would like to highlight, highlight, highlight, and say three times to answer, please respond and respect Parliament, honor the Hungarian citizens, to answer the question that the remark made on the Judicial Committee, by Congressman Gyula Budai, accidentally made on the microphone, is that all judges are commies, what do you think of them? This is a very serious thing! It's not just a commie and it's not a simple commie, it's basically a political distaste for the entire judiciary, and you're obliged to express yourself in this, even if it's very, very unpleasant for you. I'm asking you to answer that. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members shall not take part in the debate. We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-30-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked for the floor because I watched this Constitutional Court resolution, our fellow Member Bárándy said that the Constitutional Court destroyed this integrity code. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Partly. He partially destroyed it.]] This Code of Integrity consists of more than 50 paragraphs, which concern three paragraphs: in one paragraph, in a definition, a few words were taken out of it by the Constitutional Court; in another paragraph, which lasts until point (f), a list of three points was found to be unconstitutional; in another paragraph, where the list is up to point (j), and there is one point destroyed, and from one point, some sentences were found to be unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, in contrast to the petitioner's request for the annulment of the whole rule, according to the grounds of the Constitutional Court. This is said in civil law that, in principle, the Constitutional Court gave the President of the OBH the truth of exactly 99,9 percent. I will tell my fellow Member Hadházy that this is not the place of free legal advice, but the operative part of the judgment, and what, when, must be written down to the judge and signed, and that the oral justification and the written explanation are not the same, and that is not usually read by the judge - it would not be a problem if he were to be informed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-30-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy for two minutes.
u2017-11-30-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So you weren't listening, my fellow Member, because I was talking about a part of it being destroyed by the Constitutional Court, and the separate opinions state that not only these few parts should have been destroyed, but all of it; this is what I was talking about. I'd like to quote you, Congressman. I think I told you, and you may remember that constitutional issues are neither measured nor can be measured. I'd like to read to you about the Constitutional Court website. A summary of the Constitutional Court's decision was published on the website of the Constitutional Court, and the following sentence is stated there:. The Constitutional Court stated that the provisions examined, such as the finding of integrity, the initiation of liability in the event of failure to fulfil obligations, and the application of any legal consequences violate both the right to appeal and judicial independence. If there is a letter in the integrity code that violates judicial independence, I think that in itself is a problem that cannot be passed without 99 percent being good. Don't make fun of me. This is about the fact that the integrity code is designed to be a violation of judicial independence and an infringement of the right of appeal. 99 percent of this may be good, but it is a problem enough if the president of the OBH gives an instruction that any part of it violates these fundamental rights. Let me ask you, Congressman, if we count in percentages, would you accept me, would you vote for a constitution that does not contain the right to life? Because there I think 99.9 percent of the Constitution would be good, only this one provision, the right to life left out. Would you vote in favour, Congressman? It's the same problem. I don't want to be a percentager. Thank you.
u2017-11-30-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-30-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Gergely Bárándy told most of the things I wanted to tell Imre Vas here. On the one hand, the Constitutional Court's decision stated that the integrity code was in breach of judicial independence and that the right to appeal was also infringed. The regulations included some of the points that my fellow Member, Mr Vas, had listed. So I don't know if he gets all the stupid stuff he says here by e-mail or text, and he's gonna laugh and say it. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I just checked!]] But think about it, dictatorships are used to justify their own actions. We had 99 very excellent moves and one hundredth when we executed some innocents - that's about what you can read in the various propaganda materials of dictatorships. It's absurd for you to bring that up in the multi-hour debate. I think that we should look at the extent to which the other issues raised by the opposition stand up, how they violate constitutional and international law and other established practices. By the way, I would add that if only in the or half of what you listed and now the Constitutional Court annulled, if only such minimal amendments were to be made to the law on the court, in relation to the declaration of failure, or to supplement it to clarify its content, then the whole law would be in order. That is the difference, the 0.1 percent that depends on whether there is real independent judicial action in Hungary or not. So, Imre Vas, please note that such a small thing can ruin a rule of law, and based on the examples we have seen before, this is very much supported by practice. Thank you. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-11-30-44	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Ákos Hadházy, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-30-45	Thank you very much. On the one hand, I do not want to repeat to my fellow Member, Imre Vas, my previous metaphor, but if one little thing does not work in a structure or organization, then it is possible that this whole thing does not work, and so does the integrity code. Secondly, I thank you for your rather instructive and cynical contribution, and believe me that I have been informed about this matter quite a lot, and I know that there is a judgmental part of a judgment, a part of the reasoning, but thank you once again for your contribution, because I can draw attention to this case once again, and I can ask you once again to reflect on this, Madam President. [[12.50]] Here the verdict itself was announced in advance or written down by the judge. After a seven-hour trial - when he didn't even have a chance to get something done during a break and write it - he stood up and read the sentence, the extremely mild sentence, and then gave the explanation orally, and the reasoning was that the defendant had already admitted the crime here. He didn't admit it anyway, and I don't know if the Hungarian court or this judge can see so much into the future - not only in the past - that when he makes a very mild judgment, he can do it on the grounds that he will surely admit the defendant's actions. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2017-11-30-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, Dear House! Dear Friends - I could say now because we're in such a tight circle, and I think most of the time, they're lawyers who understand what we're talking about. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not everyone!]] Although I'm not quite sure about my last statement. It is a matter, my honourable House, that I was driven by the idea that, when the President was appointed and elected, I would have liked to have gone there - I had thought of it then - and I should have said a Mysathi thought that this road would not be sprinkled with roses. That was obvious. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I thought you wanted to quote the Relatives.]] The whole institution itself was needed, and if my fellow opposition Members really put their hands on their hearts, as some have already suggested, and look back at where we started, then I think that I do not have to go back to my long-standing courts, one of the terrible circumstances under which the judges were able to maintain their authority where the system was virtually barely working, but the courts still worked, and from there we got to a situation where today, I have to say, European-class courts operate. This, whether you like it or not, is one of the important achievements of this organization, its president. You can hardly deny that. Yes, the fact is, this House, today, there have been a lot of things that actually contained nothing but powers of appointment and anomalies raised by the opposition. Those involved in the appointment should be aware that they will be subject to attacks. It's inevitable. And anyone who participates in the appointments and makes a decision will be honoured by the consequences of which, however, and for this reason, among other things, I did not know my fellow Member Mr Gábor Staudt here, that is why they cannot go to the threat. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What threat?]] Whether that was the intention or not, from those words, I ask for your permission - and if you do not, please make a strong correction in two minutes - I felt a very strong threat. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: In what?]] And I think that any matter relating to a judicial organisation that is clear and transparent cannot result in one thing: a personal attack that has been made here today. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What was the personalization?]] I think that I understood a significant part of the opposition's comments, but I thought that if I read - and I tried to read the whole of this proposal - then they were not in line, these comments, I would say once again, were almost personal. What was it about? Appointment or non-promotion of a person. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: One is 40 in a year?]] This was the fundamental debate over the period. But I beg you, if there's anything to justify judicial independence, it's just that if a judge feels a grievance, he feels a personal grievance, he goes to the court. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt:]] you're asking for an appeal. Yes! Dear Congressman Staudt, it is possible to smile at this, but I have lived through a time when there could not have been any objections, let alone going to the court because someone in the same organization has suffered or is presumed to suffer harm. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Let's get used to it, shall we?]] Does it really not matter that there have been such changes in the past period that the person who actually works as a lawyer today, I have to say, is light years away from the way we worked? The way you can get to the cases today, the way you can, I have to say, solve all the problems that have meant half a day to us, and those that have taken the time and taken the opportunity, are organized today, wouldn't that all matter? Are we really just supposed to be dealing with some personal injuries here? In fact! Now it's personal, which I think goes beyond what we've heard before. I used to have a really bad horse suit in Balassagyarmat, but I'm not gonna bring it here today. I have to say that he was a very biased judge, thank God not yesterday, but, say, about 30 years ago. So, this House, we must maintain a measure, and this measure, I believe, is about staying within the limits of reality. I think that, when this office stood up, it was a clear goal, and that is why I supported this opportunity, that the kind of very difficult organizational work that has always been involved in battles, and which is very difficult to find within battles that does not even nuance the independence of judges, had to be separated. I know that no profession can take it when it comes to power measurement. Yeah, I think that's one of the biggest grievances. You can measure performance, you can measure it in every profession. It's not easy. I know that a teacher, if they say they're measuring his performance, is upset, so how dare anyone, because it's his spiritual activity. Yes, but he's going on with my child, and I therefore think that this should be measured, as is the case in the justice system. And it must also be clear, honourable House, that if that is the case - and I think that I truly do - that these measurements were necessary, there is nothing more evidence than to see where we are in backlog. 'Cause what was he raving about earlier, I have to say, not just the opposition, but us, too, when we were in opposition? About me asking you nicely, you can't finish the cases. And today, it could be something, and today, the cases will be finished. Is all judgment good? No way! If it weren't, we wouldn't need an appeal. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's not what we were talking about!]] And you're not even sure that the remedy is correct? Yes, that can always happen, because truth is only with the Almighty. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We never mentioned such topics.]] So, I think, Mr House, that if we keep the measure, and if we think honestly about the activities of this organisation and the president of the organization, then there is far more positive than anyone here can bring up as a negative. And perhaps one last thought that I consider important. The programmes that have started deserve to be supported by the opposition. What do I mean? In particular, the programmes that apply to minors are programmes that relate to personal victims. It is not true that we cannot agree that progress was needed here too, a humane step forward! I'm sure the opposition understands, thinks and wants this. And I think that there is room in these areas, and that there is room for further progress. And indeed last and last, but I think that it is not the last in a row that is actually a question of judicial payments. Personally, whenever it is up to me and my weak strength, I intend to use it to make judicial payments worthy of the office of judge and to make them rise. It can't be argued that the judge doesn't go abroad and that the judge doesn't leave the profession. He doesn't leave because he's loyal to his profession and he loves it. And he was there then - let me tell you this, I remember it was in the '70s - when Nagykata went to that time, I don't even know what his name was in the Communist Party at that time, but the point is that the Minister of Justice had gone and complained that the judge had a hole in his elbow. Don't let us get here. Consequently, even if we are not here, but let it be clear that yes, the judge will be rewarded - in accordance with his dignity, his independence - for what he is working for. And I think that's why we work. [[13.00]] And if, as a first step, the people in the courts have been able to make a significant increase, then that should not be underestimated. There's a lot of them, and they're good at it, and they deserve it. I think, as I know my own faction, I know the government that I am fortunate to support, that the salaries of the judges will increase, because we hope that we will have the opportunity to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It hasn't been raised in 12 years!]]
u2017-11-30-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2017-11-30-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party has already been presented in detail by my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy in his speech. Of course, I wouldn't go through this again, I would just like to go over a few details. However, if I may, I would like to add a few points to the introductory thoughts of my colleague Béla Turi-Kovács, who is before me, by adding in advance that I, in my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács, respect both age and work, but I do see something very differently that he said at the beginning of his speech. My fellow Member said that he still remembers the times when the courts continued their work in unworthy circumstances, and at that time they were able to maintain the authority of the judiciary. Unfortunately, today we see that although it is now possible for the court to do its work in very modern buildings and under very modern conditions, we see that the judiciary is not so effective in preserving its authority and maintaining it, and that is precisely why we believe that political influence has arrived at the courts. We think what we have been saying for a long time that justice, as an independent branch of power, is unfortunately not independent. From a legal point of view, it should be, but in recent years, in the face of fidesz amok runnings in recent years, we have found that justice is under very strong political influence. Of course, we can say that even in the case of the prosecutor's office. In the case of the next agenda, we will tell you in detail, but we can say this in the case of the courts, and I do not want to be personal here with President Tünde Hando, but what we see here is that in many cases the court or the judiciary is also subject to a strong fidesz influence. What I have said is that I respect the work of my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács, I can say less about my fellow Member, Imre Vas, because we have been accustomed to being one of the flagships of your creative legislative activities, if I may honor you with that expression, and I do not wish to objectify you, but it is true that the Member, who is often a part of a series of proposals, and also gives explanations here in Parliament, which are precisely the position of my fellow Member, Mr Bárándy, and my fellow Member Staudt, on the opposition side, on the integrity instruction of everyone. You said - and I thought you were a lawyer, but I'm sorry if you're a mathematician; you're lost in percentages here - that 99 percent of everything here is okay, 1 percent is not okay. This was discussed in detail, my fellow Members, what is the problem with this 1 percent. However, once again, the Constitutional Court partially annulled the integrity order of the President of the OBH, because it is unconstitutional on several points. You know, Congressman, I think, and this is a very subjective opinion, and I put in a quotation mark what I'm about to say: if a lawyer in his work would do unconstitutional things, he would do things, such writings would come out of his work, that would be quite a problem, because it would almost mean that he didn't know his profession. But when the president of the OBH gives such an integrity order, it must be a very problem, and I would add, I also think you said in an interrogation in response to one of my fellow Members. [[For signal:]] - Yes, Congressman Bárándy responded - that those who, by the way, wrote out in a separate opinion what was still a big problem. Well, I wouldn't be in the position of members of the Constitutional Court now, because we have repeatedly said that political appointees have been elected to that body, but those who will end their term of office will be terrified if they dare to say such things. We don't think it's the right thing to do, either, but in any case, it's kind of weird that you're suggesting or you're suggesting that most of it was okay, but a small part of it wasn't okay. Once again, the fact is that the President of the OBH has issued an integrity order which the Constitutional Court has found to be unconstitutional in some of its provisions. It can be explained, it can be described, but we have to say that this is very wrong, and this is not professionally right, but, by the way, my fellow Members have already discussed this in detail, so I will not explain this further. What I would particularly like to know - and this has already been said here in the walls of the House today - and I would ask the President to respond to it, tell her, if possible, in detail, how she feels about the statement that Gyula Budai is a Fidesz Member of Parliament, former Commissioner of the Government for Accountancy, and more positions, currently Vice-President of the Judicial Committee, is basically commenting on the entire Hungarian judiciary. [[Dr. István Vitányi: You have before you what he said about the judiciary...]] I see. Congressman István Vitányi has the opportunity to press the button. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Let's talk about this, Stephen. It was a little different.]] We welcome the participation of our Fidesz fellow Members in the debate. [[Dr. István Vitányi: The one in front of you...]] Of course, we do not think that we will be able to convince them that there are things here that are not in place. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy to Dr. István Vitányi: Not afterwards... speak up! You don't have the brains to quote it.]] Mr Vitányi, feel free to press a button, and we will be very much involved in this debate. Of course, our time allows us to be here and to listen to this. In any case, I would like to know what President Tünde Handó would say about this commie, how he feels about the entire judiciary being commised by Gyula Budai, because he obviously meant the entire judiciary, because he even pointed out that it was all about all the judges. I think it is particularly harmful to classify someone in this country and not qualifying for their work, but how he would think he would live, how he would do it. I think it's really, really wrong. Nor is it right that the President has not responded in the last few days; she has not defended the judiciary; she has not stood by them; she has not rejected Gyula Budai's comment. A lot of people did that. I think that the President should do the same, because it is unacceptable, however, that people who claim to be potentates of different fidesz types or those who believe themselves to be potentates can express such opinions. In addition, I can say that it is not a simple - again without hurting anyone, and absolutely not a pejorative sign - it is a mere Member of Parliament, but a vice-president of the Justice Committee, to whom these organisations would belong, if we look at it sectorally. So we find this very, very inappropriate, and I would like to ask the President, at the end of the debate, when she is sure to speak to him, to speak out in her comments, please, in detail, what is your position on this. My fellow Member Bárándy has asked you to distance yourself. I could do that, of course, but most of all, I want to know what you think about all this. We have very, very bad thoughts about this, we could also recall very, very bad memories of such a statement, and it is if there is not a sharp separation in this case. But once again, as I said, I would like to hear the President's opinion on this. Mr. President. Thanks for the opportunity to let you know.
u2017-11-30-50	I also welcome my fellow Members. And now I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre in a normal time frame.
u2017-11-30-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank each and every member of the court, every judge, secretary, author, law enforcement officer, administrator, administrator, official, who has worked victimfully and with great responsibility in 2016 and is still working there today. Obviously, they work to enforce the truth, and that's why they carry out their responsible work, so my first word is definitely my thanks. [[13.10]] The next thing I would like to talk about is the question of judicial independence that has been affected by all those who have spoken before me, and Mrs President has also put the issue of judicial independence at the centre of her report. Not only is judicial independence a cornerstone of our Fundamental Law, but we believe that the most fundamental principle, alpha and omega of justice, is whether the court is independent or not. Relative contradictions could be discovered here in 2016, several of my fellow Members have already mentioned it, and on the opposition side all my fellow Members have already mentioned contradictions about the appointment of senior officials. I would also like to draw attention to these, because, in some respects, I feel that judicial independence is definitely affected by proposals being rejected without a legal basis or due cause. In such cases, it is a message to the judges. Message: If you do not take the line I expect of you, if you do not behave as I expect of you, then you cannot move up that ladder, you cannot occupy positions. So this is definitely a message, and it has a very bad message value. I think it definitely affects judicial independence. But let's also talk positive. I would like to point out that what I liked very much in the work of the President in 2016 was when the Government came up with the plan to establish a new administrative court system and to completely reform the system of administrative courts that have been in place so far, and that the OBH has consistently advocated judicial independence. Faced with the government, he carried out a small study in which the establishment of this new court system was greatly denied, and it has also been pointed out that in many cases judicial independence is indeed at risk. It is no coincidence that opposition parties have shown very serious opposition in this matter, and since it is a two-thirds law, this has not been achieved and has not been set up. So I've seen something positive about judicial independence. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, since it came to parliament, has always been concerned about judicial independence. We are perhaps the only ones who have tabled legislative proposals even in 2010, when the new Fundamental Law was adopted. We wanted to regulate there so that legislation could not influence the court chapter in any way, or affect judicial independence. We would have seen this most well-founded if, in the Fundamental Law, we had regulated what kind of budgetary benefits the courts would be entitled to, which cannot be touched, not the composition of the given Parliament and the government's will depend on how much money the chapter of the court will receive. It would have been better to regulate this in the Fundamental Law, and then it would not have been possible for the government to influence it in such a way that, where appropriate, it would have pushed the courts in some direction. We see that this has happened in the past period, because we have seen that when there was an Orbán government in Hungary, the judges' salaries were not increased. Now there is a small period when the situation was so untenable when we get to the point that in a job that doesn't even need a university degree, they earn more than judges, then the government touches it at a very minimal level, and at last after 14 years raises the judges' salary, although, as I say, I will talk about it in ridiculous and ridiculous terms. In my speech last year as the lead speaker, I devoted a serious chapter on how outrageous it is to see how few and humiliatingly low wages are for judicial staff. We talked about them going to Tesco to charge goods, because they get a lot more money there, and that's something the government has to touch. In this respect, we have also tabled a budget-altering proposal with my better fellow Members, both last year and this year. We do this every year, and we have proposed a serious, minimum 30 percent wage improvement in this sphere. We are very pleased that this has finally resulted in a more serious wage development than the judicial staff, with which the court is truly competitive in the fact that those who have been working for decades may not be able to go to the charger, have the right experience, have the knowledge, and can really help the judges working there professionally. There's nothing wrong with that. There is a problem with the other part, namely the judicial salaries, which the government has not touched again. Each year, we tabled an amendment to the Budget Act, with a minimum wage improvement of 30%. At the moment, at three paces, there will be 5-5-5% wage developments, 10 percent of which will be achieved, and 5 percent will be achieved. I have also said several times before the public of Parliament that there have been serious surveys on this, where Hungary stands in comparison with the European Union and with European countries. We see that the least-paid judges in the European Union are in Hungary; so here are the least-paid judges. I don't know why it turned out like this. We can see that, since 2003, there has been virtually no wage development for judges. We know very well how serious inflation has been during this period. Last year, Madam President, I recall saying that the decrease in real wages in judges has been 42 percent since 2003-2004. This is a very, very serious real wage reduction when the government talks about the need to preserve the real value of wages when it talks about the need to preserve the real value of pensions. However, we also see that, unfortunately, the Orbán government treats the courts as a completely stepchild, and considers the judges to be enemies. By the way, this is very, very well seen from the statements that have been made here. For example, it is obviously intolerable for someone to comment on the entire judiciary at a committee meeting, especially as Vice-President of the Committee on Justice. This shows the attitude of the majority of the government vis-à-vis the judges. This is why the salaries in Hungary are below the bottom of the frog compared to other EU countries. If we look at it, we can see that even with this future 15 percent, Hungarian judges' salaries will be last, because they may catch up with Bulgaria and we will race with them in a dead race, and we will ride back in the European Union. We told you three or four years ago that we needed 30 percent wage improvement, but now it's not enough. Even then, we would have only taken the last place, and we would have preceded Bulgaria. But what can we expect? How can we expect judicial independence, how can we expect the judiciary to be the top of the profession in the legal profession, so that the best judgments can be made in Hungary, so that judgments are well founded, that the procedures are quick? How can we expect the most talented lawyers, the best of the profession, to enter the judiciary? Obviously, that's not gonna happen. We also know very well that a judicial profession is a profession where a second job is virtually impossible, where a political role cannot be taken. They're locked out of a lot of things. This should be valued in some way, more appreciated by the state, not to mention an independent branch of power. The fact that it is an independent branch of power, however, should not only be reflected in what my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács said, what a beautiful new building they have and the rest. Obviously this is part of it, but it should also be appreciated; although - and thank you for that - Béla Turi-Kovács also said that he should also appreciate the judiciary, and he supports all of this. What I would like to say, however, is that I have already mentioned my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács that you have criticised Gábor Staudt. That's what I'd like to refuse. I have listened to the speech by my fellow Member Mr Staudt Gábor. I do not think that there has been any threat or threat, or that we do not do so in our speeches. [[János Pócs: Oh!]] In the President's report, I saw a 23-percent increase in the arrival of the case compared to 2015 figures. I was very curious that in 2016, the number of cases will increase or decrease, or stagnant. I have seen from this report that the number of cases has continued to increase, so in particular in certain areas, in administrative and labour courts, in forensic matters, second-degree cases, in pre-judge cases, from 3.2 percent to 8.7 percent. This shows that there is a minimum increase of 26-27 percent in the circulation of files compared to two years ago. As I know these cases, and as I hear from the judge's acquaintances, I can also see that the complexity of the cases has increased greatly. Today, there are very few simple cases, the number of cases with simple legal judgements, very complicated cases, and particularly complicated cases. If this is coupled with the fact that about a quarter more cases need to be considered, this also means that there is a need not only to develop wages in a court but also to increase the number of staff. However, it is very positive what Madam President wrote in her report about the extent to which the file backlog was processed and there is about a 10 percent reduction in the file back every year. That's definitely positive, but I'd like to add the other side of the medal to what this entails, what extra work, extra tasks. What I see in my environment is that the judges go home with their 20 kilos of paperwork carried home in huge bags every night, mainly for the weekend, Saturday and Sunday, and I see that judges work not 8 hours in five days of the week, but 10-12 hours in seven days. [[13.20]] If this is coupled with the need to assess around a quarter more crimes, this also means that there is a need not only to develop wages in a court but also to increase the number of employees. However, it is very positive what Madam President wrote in her report about the extent to which the file backlog was processed and there is about a 10 percent reduction in the file back every year. This is certainly positive, but I would also like to add to the other side of the medal what this entails, what extra work and extra tasks it entails when I see in my environment that the judges come home carrying home the 20 kilos of paper in huge bags every night, especially for weekends, Saturdays and Sundays, when the judges work not 8 hours in 5 days of the week, but 10-12 hours in 7 days of the week. If it's coupled with this, you're gonna have to watch the scale pan somewhere. Obviously, this is necessary, but they should also be better valued financially if we expect them to do so, if we place the weight on them in such a way, then we should pay them on the other side. Obviously, this doesn't fall within the competence of the President, and I'm aware of that. Although I was pleased that, in previous years, Madam President has always put emphasis on and more emphasis on the fact that judicial payments are obviously not suitable for order in this area. So that's why you need to stand up. I would like to say a few more words about electronic administration. I often criticize this every year when the President has a report. There's always a lot of trouble with that. In many cases, electronic administration does not help but also hinders judges and judicial staff working there. They have a lot of annoyance, which I think could and should be improved with greater care. The center should be more careful about the signals coming up from the lower deck. They should be collected, delivered to the right place. There is much to be done to help the people working there, both in time and in energy, because many times these programs are not working well, they are not well programmed, they can be made right by making small adjustments, there is no place for this information to enter, what problems there are. There's no one to coordinate them properly. So what I see is that there are always problems with this, and I keep getting signals about it. And I really hope that at some point, you get to hear the people responsible from all over, and there's gonna be some sort of change. I also saw in the report that the number and proportion of judgments not appealed at first instance decreased a bit, 79.1 from the previous 79.5. There is no such thing as too great, very little, 0.4 percent deterioration. I think it's definitely a good number. It means that people are basically satisfied with the work of the courts, which is why we should thank those who work there. On the other hand, it is also necessary to see that there is also a tendency that the Budapest metropolitan courts do not have such a good judgment, since there is a much higher rate of appeals. I think there is greater respect for the courts in the countryside, respect for professional knowledge, greater than in the capital, so there is better acceptance. If I may, I will highlight the work of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and of the Nyíregyházi Tribunal and those in the jurisdiction of the courts in half a minute's time, since there is the highest acceptance of the first instance judgments, if I remember correctly, 86.1 percent. So just over 13 percent of those who appeal the first-degree verdicts. This certainly describes the good work that is going on there; and I see that my time is up. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-30-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now giving the opportunity for a two-minute comment to Mr Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-30-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam President, I would like to ask you about which my fellow Member, Mr Zsolt Legény, has already asked you a question. What is your position, what is your attitude towards the statement by Vice-President Gyula Budai of the Committee on Justice regarding comms in relation to the judiciary, because we would like to know how you personally, as President, are related to this issue and this statement. I also think this is important because my colleague Gergely Bárándy asked the Prime Minister on this issue, and there he was not given a clear answer to his question. I hope that you, as President of the Organisation, will make a clear answer in this regard. This is also important because, leaning a little out of this topic, in connection with the discussion of topics such as, say, the subject of the Committee on National Remembrance, where questions about the disclosure of agent files and agent lists have been harassed in the House, Fidesz seems, in an interesting way, to be against these issues. There are obviously reasons for these, too, so the method of commieting could, in practice, be put on the government side with a calm spirit in the context of the debate. But I do not want to get involved in this, but my last thought is about what my fellow Member said earlier. Another question is whether the last eight years have been satisfied - I say, the last eight years - with the development of salary and wage issues that this government has done in eight years. I'd like you to give me a clear answer in this, too. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-30-54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre for two minutes.
u2017-11-30-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There wasn't time for one thing in my speech earlier, so I was only doing two minutes, and this is the integrity code. I wanted to say a few thoughts about that, too. Indeed, all my fellow Members have said, at least in relation to the Code of Integrity, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which I believe was expected, but I see the biggest problem not in this, not in the decision of the Constitutional Court, but in the fact that this Code of Integrity has not only brought great criticisms from outside the media, or by external critics, and also from the Constitutional Court, but also from the inside, and I think that the problem is greater here. I practically didn't find a positive opinion within the court who would have given a positive opinion on the integrity code. Obviously, when people get responsibilities at work, they don't like it. You have to take note of that. However, this is a completely different kind of job that judges do. The problem here is that the judges generally saw them as not an autonomous judge, an independent judge, or an intelligent, thoughtful, responsible person, but a person who has to be told everything thoroughly, and I don't mean the small things of dress, but a lot of other things, which, I think, insulted the judges in their sense of self-esteem, so en bloc the court workers from within. And I see this as a big problem, too, that this integrity code has succeeded, when most judges are fully aware - 99 percent of them - of what the rules of conduct are, what they would be, where they would be illegal, where they should no longer have any impact on their independence; so I think that more autonomy should be given to judges. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-11-30-56	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a normal time frame.
u2017-11-30-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor again in a normal time frame because I would like to respond to a number of things that have been said so far. Firstly, the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Turi-Kovács. I think, honourable Member, that it is worth always separating the results that, let us say, the results achieved in the classic administrative sphere, whether it be the renovation of a building or the development of a computer system or something like that. And it is worthwhile to separate the questions concerning the issues of principle and constitutionality, and they are about the role of an organisation in constitutional operation. You talked about one and compared it to the other. You can't compare these two. If you have listened to my speech, then I have said that the results, in the circle you have listed, are acknowledged. Although I also note that this is not because of the National Court of Justice, because the National Council of Justice could have done the same thing if Parliament had voted in favour of the budgetary resources needed to do so. Because, as I understand it, it wasn't Madam President who put the money into the system, it was the Parliament that gave it to him, and that's how he managed it. [[13.30]] It was not because there was no intention to renovate court buildings before and there was no IT development, Congressman, but because there was no money. Now there's money, thank God, we're happy for it, we acknowledge it as a result, it doesn't matter whose credit it is, it's a result. [[Dr. Imre Vas intervenes.]] But, Congressman, to pair this up with the fact that otherwise there are serious constitutional problems with the operation of the OBH, I do not think we can. This is not a quantitative issue, as has already been mentioned several times today. It's a quality question. I think you have listened to the debate, so you know exactly the arguments that we have made here, so you do not need to repeat it, and I do not want to, because, as my fellow Member said, I respect your age and your work so far. You thought, just to make a comment, of what quote you would have said to her when the President was appointed. Of course, with regard to the appointment, I think that many of us have thought of a lot of works and quotes, especially as regards the appointment of the Relatives. But we're not talking about this now, we're past this, we've played this once, we're criticizing the specifics of the operation now, and we're talking about the specifics of the operation, I think. To sum up, and perhaps with an example: it is important what the court building is, but perhaps more important, Congressman, what is happening in it. With regard to the increase in salaries: Mr President, let us present a joint proposal, which is what I propose, which is about a significantly more serious increase in wages for judges. If you are committed to this, if you are open to this, then you will obviously be able to represent this position as a representative of the Government. I'll prepare it, if you'll prepare it, I'll be happy to take it, and we can sign this tomorrow. Let's do it. In 2003, there was a 50 percent increase in wages during the Socialist Government, then for 12 years there was nothing, and then there was this three times five percent increase in wages. I don't think you can be proud of that, Congressman. If you really care about the judges' fate and their remuneration, then help us help Madam President to achieve a better result than in the past, because what the Fidesz government has done in this case is equal to zero, Congressman. Finally, because I do not want this to remain pending, Mr Vitányi, even if he does not press a button and is not willing to take part in the debate in substance, only at the level of yelling, which is a legitimate genre of Parliament, I always say, but he does not give rise to the speech: if we object to Gyula Budai commising the judges, then how can my statement at the time relate to this - was that your suggestion and the Prime Minister's, too, when I asked? I have two comments on this. First of all, it's kindergarten to say that if anyone else beat Pistike, I can beat him, too. [[Fidesz benches.]] So if someone else said something that wasn't right, it would trigger me to distance myself from what just happened. That's one of them. The other: honourable Member, I will continue to say those words to this day. And you know what? What I can tell you is that if you read my statement, I think you didn't do what the Judicial Association reacted to then, and what Viktor Orbán referred to is precisely about the future problems that we are discussing here today in the debate on the report. You know? ! Which is why the judges are suing today. That's what I was talking about. I think that these words have just won justice today, and they have just won justice. You know? ! I can also tell you that not everyone agreed with the association's position at the time, in fact. I am also convinced, Mr President, but let us talk about this, once again, because it is not a matter of silence or silence, that the Judicial Association, knowing what has happened since then, would probably think otherwise today after five years and in the light of the events. But once again, Congressman, you are here, you have the right to press a button, to state your position, and I am very, very happy to answer to you, to discuss this. But I believe once again that it doesn't matter what anyone's position is on the statements of that time or on my sentence at that time, it doesn't matter. After five years of this, regardless of your faction, a Vice President of the Commission, Vice-President of the Justice Commission, will commiserate the entire judiciary. Tell me, Congressman, why you can't distance yourself from this. Is it because there were similar cases five, ten and 15 years ago, or do you think they were similar cases? Isn't that why? Is that what's annoying you? Or how do you feel about it? I think what can be done is that you condemn both of them. All right, legitimate opinion, position. But to defend that it was still like that, is that okay now? Come on, let's be serious. I believe that this was precisely what was false in the Prime Minister's speech at the time, and I say exactly that, instead of dissociating from it, Gyula Budai changed his words to the extent that it was not the entire judiciary, only part of him was a commie. Is this what is expected of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Hungary? Excuse me, Prime Minister of Hungary? Is that what you think it is? Speaking of who's threatening us here and who's not on the issue of independence, they say that some people have papers about something. Now two decisions of the Constitutional Court say that this is what OBH's practice does. I can't tell if there's any other court or Strasbourg judgment. But now there is objective, tangible proof that there is truth, and there is danger in and there is a problem with the proposals that we have made. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to say that this is proof to me that this model of operation, this administrative model, has failed, we need to create a new one, this is not good. And not because, by the way, the courts wouldn't be beautiful or renovated façades, and perhaps you wouldn't be subjugated with gold, as my fellow Member Vejkey said, but because the system basically violates bad and constitutional principles. I think that this is a lesson from the past period. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2017-11-30-58	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér in a normal time frame.
u2017-11-30-59	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As President Hando's report shows, the National Court of Justice has managed to deliver further results in the areas of resource management, quality and timeliness of judgment, digitalisation of court operations and adaptation to the legislative environment. Last year, the court faced a significant flow of cases concerning migration issues, foreign exchange-credit cases and the reporting of changes by civil society organisations. However, the court has succeeded. [[Dezső the gullible will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] It is good to see that our country is at the forefront of Europe in terms of the number of indicators typical of the functioning of several judicial systems. As regards the speed of the lawsuits, we are sixth in civilist matters, preventing Sweden, the Netherlands, France. In administrative matters, we are second after Sweden. In the backlog of the case, the third least of our backlog is our civilist backlog, thus preventing Finland, Denmark, the Netherlands and France. It is to be acknowledged that while nearly 10 thousand cases of over two years were ongoing in mid-2015, this decreased by 27 percent by March 2016. The management of the OBH's human resources was supported by a 30 percent increase in wages, the development of professional cooperation within the organisation, as well as domestic and international cooperation. New good practices have been introduced in customer relationships. The budget of OBH also shows the strengthening of Hungary. Every year, every sector has more resources. While the budget of the OBH was HUF 77 billion in 12 years, next year it will be HUF 118 billion. From this, significant building developments, building reconstructions, IT developments can be implemented and resolved in the future. In 2015, the Debrecen District Court was handed over, in 2016, the Cegléd District Court was renewed, in 2017 the Szentmiklósi was built, in 2017, the Jászberény District Court and the Egri Tribunal were also completed. The court must proceed with digitalization on its way. It's been an honor to have your attention, thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[13.40]]
u2017-11-30-60	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt in a normal time frame.
u2017-11-30-61	Thank you very much. I'm not going to take advantage of you, Mr President, but I have a few things to respond to, for example, what Béla Turi-Kovács said. I don't want to react to everything you've told me, because I have to think that if you've listened to what we've told you and you can say so much about it, then we can put an end to this, everyone goes home, and this is fun, and with a feeling of man's work, you might think you've done what the country required. Then we can't convince him. I understand that you have lived more in dictatorship and that you have had to do a lot before courts deprived of independence, but then you do not wish us to do the same, and I would like to say that to you. We, however, want those of us who socialized after 90, not to start a recovery, but to start a process forward, not just to start, but to remain independent in the case of the courts, and to strengthen, not to regress. All I'd like to say to you is that I don't know how you got the threatening words out of what I said, and I usually tell you the legal facts, my legal opinion. Obviously, we are at the plenary session of the Parliament, so politics is difficult to put aside, which is what I am trying to put aside as much as possible in such debates, which is why I have said those specific questions and specific points. We do this year after year, although it is true that this year, as far as 2016 is concerned, we have unfortunately seen more and more practical implementation of the legal shortcomings previously assumed or thought only to be worrying, or inadequate application of the laws. And by the way, although I didn't tell you, it was also said at the committee meeting that we were also not happy to discuss this report or these reports at the end of November, which is also true of the Attorney General and the Curia's accounts. As I understand it, these reports were prepared by the court officials and the Attorney General in the summer. Now, because we are talking about three reports, I cannot tell you, but perhaps all three reports were made in June-July. Then why did we wait until the end of November? Should we be even further away from 2012 and talk about the operation of different judicial bodies from an even greater time horizon? It is very difficult, as we move away in time, more and more fresh matters are on the agenda, and the Justice Committee has an excellent undiminished practice - an unbroken bad practice, I add - to always draw our attention to the fact that we can only talk about the previous year, the year 2016; in this case, the year 2016 has also hidden many interesting things, but it is a bad practice in itself. By the way, previous bad practices have been accompanied by new bad practices, such as the introduction of a time frame, but I do not want to go into this right now. So summa summarum, you don't know me as a man who threatens anyone, I never did, but it's our duty to say that we've been sent here by the voters. Believe me, my fellow Member, it is not a pleasure, nor a pleasure, to talk about such things; on the opposition side, I would prefer to say only positive things. One more thing, which is also a professional thing, and I would like to raise the possibility of commenting here, of documenting the negotiations, this has been said several times, and Madam President has also said several times in my memory that there are progress in this, that the replacement of tape recorders and laptops have been said, digitalisation, this is a good process, so we have always supported this to the maximum. However, there have been issues, and this is a legal issue, that judges may have banned - or a practice to ban - cameras because judges find that there are cameras not for reporting purposes, but that they document events, so that any problems with the minutes can be proved later, and in cases where the report was made several times at the expense of the defendant, because they were, by the way, also appeared in the media, the judge complained about what it was that a video recording could be presented to the court. In this context, as a closing point, that we are actually closing the debate of the report with an absolute technical matter, I would consider, I do not know where this is going, whether the negotiations are recorded entirely on video, or the minimum is to be recorded with a recorder, but I must say that in today's world, the cheapness of technology does not make it impossible to do so with a video camera, and in this case, if there are minutes of criticism and substantive criticisms of what has been said, what has not been said, what the defendant, witnesses or even in a civil suit the defendant, plaintiff has said, then it should be reassuringly traceable to everyone, and then the minutes can be supplemented. And it should not be the reaction of judges that, if they have seen a camera in the Chamber before, they will try to push it out of there and in any way prevent it from being recorded, so that, where appropriate, the minutes can be corrected. So I'm really hoping that this can happen, too. To conclude, I would like to ask the President once again to really treat the criticisms here as a gift, and if there is a question or some sort of justification of what we have said, which has otherwise come to us, which, let us say, was not possible to explain here, or the President did not know exactly what we were thinking, we would be very happy to make available to you. Believe me, our goal is to ensure that the courts function normally, and we can be convinced that if these proposals are accepted, then, I believe, we can move forward in the interests of the entire Hungarian legal system. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-11-30-62	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Vitányi in two minutes.
u2017-11-30-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm going to go a little further on what I was going to say to the Attorney General's report, and because of the constant harassment of Gergely Bárándy, I'm forced to comment. [[Defiance. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Sorry.]] The fact is that no one here claimed that one saying would annoy the other - no one said that. I consider that there are certain moral standards that must be observed. If I say something that's wrong and someone else says the same thing, then I don't have a moral basis to criticize the other. I consider Gergely Bárándy a good politician; one of the virtues of a good politician is that he forgets quickly. I will not soon forget what I promise to the voters, and I will abide by it, which is why I have been sitting here in Parliament since the fifth term. And unfortunately, the thing that unfortunately characterizes the meetings of the Judicial Committee has also become one of Parliament's benches, not the professionalism, but the personalization, the indictment, the indictment, the indictment, the indictment, why he has not been charged, why he has received so much, why he has not received so much. I was a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for 16 years, which is now partially successor to the Committee on Justice, but none of this has occurred. At Gergely Bárándy's place, I appreciate the nearness of the election, the short list of MSZPs, must somehow be uploaded and included. I understand, so that's why I don't resent her, but it's better for everyone to look in the mirror and see what she sees in the mirror, to think about what she's saying. So I respectfully ask that we do not bring into the benches of this Parliament the unparalleled, non-paralleled attitude that has been taking place recently at the Justice Committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2017-11-30-64	Thank you. Congressman Gergely Bárándy applied for a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman, Thank you for speaking up. I didn't think you'd consider it harassment if I asked you to speak to him in Parliament, but if you think he is, I'd be happy to do that. All I did was encourage him not just to yell at me, but to give his opinion on what he has just done. Again, thank you very much. Indeed, if a person makes the same mistake or does the same thing as the other person, then he should start criticizing himself, only I think that the two statements - and I was trying to show you - are not in a thank-you relationship. If we don't take it as a common point that both of them had a separation, then, of course, yes. But if you look at one statement and look at the other, then I think these two aren't comparable. By the way, I was beginning to hope that you would distance yourself from Gyula Budai's commies. The other thing I'm saying is, please help me to say, at the Justice Committee meeting, of which I have been a member for 12 years, and I agree with you that this committee had a different style - approximately until Gyula Budai arrived - but help me to see what else was said there besides his rooting, which is offensive to someone. 'Cause I don't remember that. I remember that. And I know it only from the record, because I didn't hear it then, I'm very sorry. So we agree, on the principle level, we agree perfectly, that style really doesn't have to be implemented, introduced. Talk to your fellow Member so he doesn't, and then we won't do it, just like we've never done before. And once again, if we want to discuss specifics about the two statements, then I stand before them. He hasn't given me any specifics yet, so I don't know how to react. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-66	Thank you. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the proposal. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the joint general debate is closed. It is now possible to conclude with the authors of the report or the proposal for a decision. I will ask Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, if she wishes to comment. [[Dr. Fae Hando: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-67	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the words of praise for the work of the courts, and thank you for the questions. I think it is important that there are Members who are interested in the work of the courts and that on these occasions more people can rise from the world of tabloid news and raise serious questions. As far as I'm concerned, I would like to quote a sentence - which I'm sure Congressman Vejkey knows best from this House - who has been given a great deal and who has been entrusted a great deal of money is asked for more. I'm aware of that. And although I did not receive a sentence from Congressman Turi-Kovács as an item for this purpose, so did I. I know you expect a lot from me, and a lot of people ask me to do a lot of things. But some things don't fall under my jurisdiction, which I can't account for. I can't account for how the forensic presidents determine the distribution of cases. It is regulated by law, and by the way, it is within their jurisdiction, as the head of a court, the President of the Curia, has told you in detail and nicely. Then I can't deal with how OBT handles conflicts of interest, because OBT's entire operation is completely out of my reach. And I can't answer questions that I'm not allowed to talk about by law, so, for example, you can't talk about disciplinary matters, you can't talk about specific cases before a court, you can't even talk about appointments, because the judge's personal data is protected by law. So there are a lot of things that limit transparency, and that also protect judges. As well as the protection of judges, their decisions can be fundamentally questioned by means of an appeal. What has been raised in relation to executive or judicial applications: I can only repeat it, it is extremely important that the most capable should be in leadership position, just for the things that you sometimes ask the President of the National Court of Justice to do, because it is precisely their job to solve and remedy the problems that arise on the ground. Being a court leader is completely different than being a good judge, which is why it is important to be the leaders who are able to take on this responsibility and not multiply the problems, but solve them, build a building, manage it, eliminate or reduce backlog with the additional resources at their disposal. These are all important things. As far as the numbers relating to judicial applications or management applications are concerned, they are very, very precise in these reports. You've quoted a lot of numbers compared to this. However, I am going to repeat what is typical of the years 2012-16. As I have already said, and have written several times, 442 court management applications were launched between 2012 and 2016, the President of the Curia, the President of the Courts, the Presidents of the Courts, and 383 appointments were made. As president of the OBH, I launched 161 management applications and 117 executive appointments were made. Although it is difficult to understand from the outside, it is important to know that the issue is not necessarily followed by the appointment or evaluation of the proposal in the same year, since what we publish in the bulletins in December will be decided next year. So when the numbers are added up, the time factor is also relevant. I believe that in both this report and in other cases I have given a proper explanation, and indeed to those concerned, to whom it really belongs, and whose right of personality I can never violate, in any case they know in particular why it is happening. But obviously that doesn't necessarily belong in the Court Gazette. Then the problem with us would be to release data, life stories that violate personal rights. Thank you very much for the suggestions made about court leaders in general, because this also draws attention to the fact that many people are responsible for the operation of this organisation in many different ways. One without highlighting a lot of people, but I do highlight the Metropolitan Courtboard in terms of results, since the lawsuits over one year have decreased by 64 percent in one year on the Metropolitan Courtboard. That's an incredible achievement. Ninety-four percent of cases will be completed within a year, and now, as they are on the rest of the judging tables, 64-60 percent of cases that will be completed within six months. This would have been unthinkable for years. As regards the disciplinary situation: in the disciplinary situation of judges, the figures have not shown any particular changes in recent years. But you can't seriously think that anyone who does something wrong or insubordination wouldn't be accountable. Every leader's job is to keep order in court. That goes for me, too. When you ask me to account for the anomalies that have occurred in some court, I do not think you can take away from me the right to invalidate these anomalies by virtue of the powers granted by law or to direct the Presidents of the Court towards the right administrative measures. [[14.00]] The central rules, the importance of regulation, the press statements have been highlighted, it is important, and there are also those in the Chamber who may know the 1999 OIT Code, in which it was stated that the President of the OIT, the Head of the OIT Office, the President of that court and press spokespersons can make a statement about the activities of the courts to the press. The same is stated in the 2010 OIT Code, and at that time the President of the OIT was a judge from a human rights court. This rule did not change in 2012, but now it is not OIT, it is OBH. That's all the changes. So I think it is extremely important that, when it comes to issues that concern the whole body, credible answers should be given. I am the one who is most upset when, by the way, perhaps excellent colleagues speak on television several times and impose upon me that there is no family law training in the court organisation. While in his court, I was encouraged to develop a model of family law training, which we then extended to the whole country this year, and more than 1700 judges took part in a very, very serious, multi-day family law training. Can you imagine how sad it was for me, who participated in this as a performer, as a thinker, that one of our colleagues said that he did not know so much what was happening in the organization. As far as regulatory powers are concerned, I thank you very much for the fact that many people here have spoken about this and have corrected the statement made by Congressman Barándy, who said that today the Constitutional Court has annulled the Code of Integrity. That was his first sentence on this subject. The Constitutional Court has just confirmed that it is possible and even necessary to regulate integrity issues in the court body. For example, the following sentence is included in the Constitutional Court's decision:. The values set out in the first section of the Rules, such as transparency, responsibility, accountability, professionalism, impartiality, the right to a fair trial, increased responsibility and increased social requirements for all judges and judicial staff. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We don't dispute that.]] basically expected behaviour. The fact that following this clearly defined value system is an obligation for those subject to the rules, does not in itself result in the influence of the judges' judicial activities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Before the regulations prepared in 2016, there was also an important step in a 2012 Hungarian court association statement, when it was said that the election was committed to ensure that there was no legal consequence of any infringement committed by judges. However, in order to protect and preserve the integrity of judges in the judiciary, liability should take place in a transparent procedural order, in full compliance with procedural rules and deadlines. This was done by the judiciary when, in its opinion, the draft of the Integrity Code was drawn up, of which, in fact, three sections of the 52 sections were affected by the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court also examined the rules from a constitutional point of view, which is the main body for the protection of the Fundamental Law. In addition, the Constitutional Court has only annulled 7 laws and 5 individual judicial decisions in the last three months. Thank you, everyone, for the annulled judicial decisions, that there was no one who demanded the resignation of that judge, because I think that's okay. That's what the rule of law is, that's what it's all about. Furthermore, in its 2017 report, GRECO, the Council of Europe's anti-corruption group, explicitly welcomed the fact that there is an integrity code and that there is a ban on gifting, which, unfortunately, may have caused a problem for a judge even a decade earlier in Szabolcs-Szatmár county, as there has also been criminal proceedings in this area. Or it also occurred to me, as an event of integrity, that a judge's daughter wrote the verdict. This story is also known to everyone who sits here. Of course there's a need to guard the guardians. And, of course, the guardians are one of you, that's the point of this policy. And as far as criticism of regulations and opinions are concerned, as a judge, I can only say that this is completely natural. We also have a regulation on this, the essence of which is that we are constantly reviewing the application, the proposals, and the revision of this regulation is also under way for other reasons. Of course, we will study the decision of the Constitutional Court and we will use it because we want to operate in accordance with the Fundamental Law. Allow me also to remember the court secretaries, since Congressman Barándy has mentioned this. Indeed, the functioning of the court organisation has changed in its entirety in the sense that 60% of their cases are already handled by independent court secretaries, whose powers and the protection of their independence in this respect are also included in the Fundamental Law. It has only confirmed this kind of independence in its amendment on judicial staff. To give an example: while we can evaluate their performance, this assessment does not affect their salary. Their relationship cannot be terminated because of a loss of trust. Court secretaries are surrounded by rooks that otherwise characterize judges. If you look at the numbers, I will give you another example: in Denmark, where there are 5 million inhabitants, there are only 350 judges. If we look at Scandinavia or other countries, we see rather the tendency to reduce the number of judges, and the help staff are multiplying around it, a help staff equipped with legal knowledge, and not necessarily judges are handling all cases. This is also a trend in the continental or even Anglo-Saxon legal system. Otherwise, we will now be part of an interesting process, and we will be watching it, because an opposite process is taking place in administrative justice. A case should already be dealt with by a three-way council of professional judges at district court level. We'll have a way to compare whether or not we need more judges. As far as administrative justice is concerned, almost all participants in the judiciary have repeatedly confirmed that there is a need for administrative experience. And what happened in the point system basically meant that, and now the awards show that equal opportunities are created for external applicants. because so far there have been no more criteria, which have significance for those coming from the public administration, can be assessed, such as traineeships and peer reviews, because the whole system was designed for certificates within the court organisation. Therefore, this disadvantage could rather be corrected by this amendment. [[14.10]] I trust that there will be real and good judges who have not learned the tricks of legal practice in the courthouse. We're doing everything we can to make this happen. As far as judicial independence is concerned, I do not think that it is necessary to confirm in this regard - as I have sworn in my oath here, and I consider this to be one of my main tasks - that judges should work without influence and without threat, which, unfortunately, was also the case with regard to the physical threat in 2016, since there was a time when someone arrived in the courtroom with Kalashnikov. So judges need protection in a lot of ways. How nice it would be to hear a lot more people speak to that effect when physical or verbal atrocities occur, or if they would listen to themselves a lot more often when they talk about court proceedings, the application of redress, or even that they would like to discuss in Parliament, in a specific case, whether a labour suit or the outcome of a criminal trial, the course of action. I don't think that's right. For the Service Courts! In a programme and in many cases since then, I have also spoken out against statements that offend judges and courts, of which unfortunately we have a great deal to suffer, and now this is a new phenomenon, also from non-rare judges. So it's a rather shocking phenomenon for me, too, that somehow this has become so fashionable, but I consider that to be a lot of other circumstances outside of us. What I wanted to note here, and I think it concerns all public figures, and you may also remember that the Curia recently passed a judgment on a similar case. In particular, the respect of a public office or a public official, the extent to which the freedom of political expression extends, and where it begins, that a public office or a public official must have a dignity in himself that can prevent disrespect. I believe that the Curia has taken a clear position, namely that freedom of political expression is always stronger than respect for the office of a public office or the dignity of a public office. It would be good if that were not the case, but that is not what the caselaw shows. As far as the digital court is concerned, I also thank the judges and the clients very much for their patience, because it is like when I mentioned the T-model car, it was first initiated with a curbly, or it was used with horses to start the engine. We're in a much better position than that, beyond the one millionth electronic submission. Indeed, there are a lot of opportunities in this, and there is also a lot of support for judges. At the Nyíregyháza Tribunal, a so-called e-per-work group was formed recently. For e-suit contactees who entangle the whole country in criminal and civil cases, their job is to take care of these questions, clients, judges. We have a lot of training, we run a helpdesk, so I think that whoever has a question, wishes, will get to those who can solve it. At least we are doing everything we can to ensure that this is the case, but I thank you for your patience and endurance for those who endure the difficulties. Thank you very much for the speeches which have recognised social responsibility by the courts, namely: participation in witness care and victim protection. Only 15,000 people visited our witness caretakers in 2016. This is a very serious number, I think, and it is a security for customers, which is particularly important for victims of violent crime. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the judiciary, I would also like to thank you for the contributions that have been made to the evaluation of the judiciary in terms of financial matters, so that there is still work to be done to confirm this and to assist the judicial body in doing so. I can quote Lao: the thousand-mile journey begins with the first step. I do not think that I am satisfied at all, but I am glad that this first step or the first steps have been taken, and I particularly respect in the government that it considers it important not only to pay but also to regard infrastructure as important, because it is a part of human well-being that we work in what environment we work in, and so far there has been very, very little attention to this in recent decades. So I'm glad we're able to make up for decades. Thank you so much for listening. Of course, I thank the court organisation, everyone who supports our operation, for their sacrifice, and as the National Council of Judges at its first meeting accepted my 2016 report to this annual report in October 2017, I also ask the Parliament to accept this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-30-68	Thank you very much, Mrs Tünde Hando, for your response. I will now ask Mr Vejkey, rapporteur for the Justice Committee, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes, you have the floor.
u2017-11-30-69	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I have easy work to do on the closing point in the summary of the debate, because the Members of the Parliament, who spoke here, supported the adoption of the report by the President. On the other hand, our fellow Members spoke of many things, that is a fact, but not of the report itself. This certainly means that OBH's 2016 accounts are excellent, because no substantive comments have been received in essence. Thank you very much for your attention and I would like to ask you to concentrate on the report when it comes to the vote. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. But madness, applause and intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Bravo!]]
u2017-11-30-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2016 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption will now follow until closure. Report submitted by the Attorney General B/17351. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/18542. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay tribute to Mr. Attorney General Péter Polt, Dr. Ervin Belovics and Dr. István Lajtár, as well as to all those who are monitoring our work at today's hearing. First, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, the author of the report.
u2017-11-30-71	Mr President, Dear House, I thank you for the opportunity to report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the General Prosecutor of Hungary in 2016 here, before the plenary of this House. Article 29 of the Fundamental Law. According to Article 4 of the Act, the Public Prosecutor's Office of Hungary and the Attorney General's Attorney General are the public prosecutors of the state's criminal law and perform other tasks imposed by law. These are the activities on which the Attorney General is required to report to Parliament every year, also on the basis of Article 29. [[14.20]] that it is well known to you, and that it has been said here earlier, this report has been prepared in written form, and that all Members have had the opportunity to study it and to know it. So, given the limited time frame, allow me, as before the committee, to make an oral amendment, which obviously cannot differ from all the points of the report, but it may give a general picture of the work carried out last year. I think that I have tried to choose details that are typical, but, of course, the questions will also include other details. Very briefly about the criminal work experienced in 2016 and the crime underlying it. In 2016, there was a 3.8 percent increase in registered crimes compared to the previous year. Overall, this meant 290 779 crimes. I would like to say that, in fact, the trend over the years has not been broken that total crime is falling, and the number of crimes is less every year. Of course, this increase was due to a series of crimes that were virtually an act of fraud, out of about 20,000 partial actions in Zala County. If we draw this off, there is still a certain downward trend in Hungarian crime, and I think that this is a welcome event. This opinion is supported by the registered number of offenders, as last year we registered 100 933 offenders, but this was less than the 2015 number. Accordingly, if we compare the number of crimes, we can see that there is a real and real trend that crime is showing a downward trend. In 2016, 112,924 cases were investigated by the D.A. in terms of their ability to prosecute, i.e. to bring them to court. More than half of this case number was prosecuted by the prosecutor, but 11 percent found that the investigation had to be terminated, 8 percent delayed the indictment, 3.6 percent referred the case to mediation and a very minimal number of cases suspended the investigation. Nearly a quarter of the cases were subject to other measures, such as referral or further investigation. I think it is essential for the prosecution to assess the types of prosecution that we have used. In more than 28,000 cases, the prosecutor submitted the traditional indictment to the court, but in 15,000 additional cases, he applied the accelerated method, so he brought the defendant to justice or made a motion to stay out of court in another 18,000 cases. Of course, it was not only in cases brought to the prosecution's attention but also in the investigation of the termination of the investigation. In the case of proposals to terminate the investigation, 80 percent of the cases were terminated by the prosecutor, and several cases, although not so large, 66 cases, were prosecuted, 52 cases were postponed, and some cases were brought into mediation proceedings. The aim of timeliness is well demonstrated by the fact that 84 percent of cases in the prosecutor's department have been completed within 30 days. We registered a 90-day overtime overshoot in 2016 in a total of five cases, and I believe that this is an extremely good result, especially if we look at the reason why the deadline was exceeded in these five cases, this was basically wrong administrative data recording, and in one or two cases the processing of a case of extreme scale was the direct reason for exceeding the deadline. In the prosecution's criminal case, it was very important, in addition to the decisions to prosecute and to terminate the investigation, which also reflected the previous investigative activities, to conduct the various target investigations. We have carried out a lot of targeted investigations, and I would like to mention here the investigation into corruption crimes, which have been initiated on the basis of reliability investigations. This is particularly interesting because society is extremely sensitive to the phenomenon of corruption, and the prosecutor's authorities have also responded to this investigation. In this investigation, in particular, the legality of the evidence, such as the absence of provocation in the relevant cases, and the case law of the Court of Human Rights has been examined and the case law of the Court of Human Rights has been taken into account. I believe that this investigation will help us to act more effectively against corruption within the legal framework. I mentioned in the oral amendment the intention of the prosecution to speed up the process. Let me give you some more detailed information about this. In the absence of a hearing, the court shall impose penalties and apply measures without hearing or hearing the defendant, and without taking evidence. In 2016, 29,4 percent of all indictments were filed without trial, and in more than 88 percent of the defendants concerned, the order for non-negotiation was brought to justice. I believe that this has had a beneficial effect on everyone, especially on society, but also on victims and burdened ones. We are still trying to press for the institution of the court within the prosecutor's organisation, and we are working with the courts on this. This can be used in the case of a loaded admission or action, which occurred in 24,8 percent of the total indictment in 2016, which represents a more than 34 percent increase compared to the previous year. There was also an increase in the number of final prisoners in such proceedings. By the way, more than 95 percent of our proposals in this direction have been found thorough by the court. Speaking of percentages, let me mention all-inclusion. We know this very well, it is mentioned every year, and I say every year that this is an important indicator, but I do not attribute excessive importance to this, despite the fact that this is very positive, it was 97.5 percent in 2016, and it was again a 0.2 percent improvement compared to 2015. I think that there has been a very important change in 2016, which should also be mentioned in the oral amendment, because the trend in previous years has been broken, that there has been an increase or a high level of repeal in second-degree court proceedings, so that, after the first instance, there will be no final decision, judgment, other decision, but that the procedure will be referred back to the first instance. [[14.30]] Data show that the number of such cases decreased by almost 20 percent in 2016. This is an extremely large improvement. I believe this was due to the combined efforts of the prosecution and the court. The prosecutor's office supports this phenomenon with its motions and actions before the courts, which clearly points towards the length of cases and the effective and rapid administration of justice. Otherwise, the number of appeals against first instance decisions has increased moderately. We were not satisfied, in principle, with regard to punishment practices, during the second-degree examination of appeals. My conviction remains that, overall, the penalties imposed may be considered mild, and here, with the prosecution's appeal, we wish to give this trend a different direction. The effectiveness of the prosecutor's appeals was 51 percent, by the way. This needs to be further improved in the future. Let me mention one more inquiry in addition to the reliability test we have just discussed, and this is an analysis of the practice of confiscation for theft of the guilty property. In my opinion, one of the most important institutions in the past, but in the coming period, is the practice of searching for and confiscating sinful assets. We must also make further efforts to do so, because this is not just a form of sanction in the judiciary, but it is also good for preventing further crime. In addition to the criminal case, let me make a brief mention of the public interest prosecutor's activity. Compared to the 2015 turnover, the settlement of some 220,000 cases was a decreasing number. This is a percentage decrease of 18%. This is essentially due to a decrease in the number of cases from the courts and to a decrease in the number of decisions and decisions leading up to the termination of the infringement. However, the number of requests for prosecution did not differ significantly from previous years. So we had almost the same number of requests to make here. The reliability assessment was also of great importance on the public interest line, otherwise more than 700 decisions on the enforcement of trust investigations were approved by the prosecutor's authorities, thereby contributing to the prevention and repression of corruption. In 2016, the prosecutor filed more than 5,000 actions under his right to bring an action under the law. This is similar to the size of previous years. In most cases, civil society organisations were involved in the trial. These procedures have been carried out to eliminate civil society organisations that have ceased their activities, but there have also been other types of procedures. There is also a need to mention the procedures for environmental and nature protection and the unfairness of standard contract terms. It is a very important and very important part of the public interest protection work to ensure legal supervision of the enforcement of sentences and the protection of the law there. These tasks also occur in increasing numbers in the prosecutor's work. They also have a special significance because we all know that they pay great attention to the rights of prisoners in prisons on the international stage, the possible violations there. This is what prosecutorial and legal work seeks to prevent or remedy. In a single sentence, I would like to mention the role of prosecutor in the legislative process, as important codification processes took place in the Ministry of Justice in 2016. In these codification processes, the Public Prosecutor's Office has actively participated through prosecutors seconded to the Ministry of Justice and, for example, the Btk. His prime minister was also a prosecutor. A few words about the tasks and powers exercised by the Attorney General; these are the obligations and rights of the Attorney General himself. The obligations and rights relating to Parliament should be mentioned here. In 2016, Parliamentary Members asked 77 written questions, 13 immediate questions and 3 oral questions. They were always answered. A very important authority of the Attorney General in the interest of legality is an appeal to the Curia. In 2016, 112 such requests were received by the Attorney General. Of these, 16 appeals were submitted. In 2016, the Curia decided on 24 such appeals. Obviously, this number is higher because there have been such motions from previous years. In each case, they were okay with it, so it's 100 percent successful here. I consider it very important to participate in the legal unit proceedings with the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Here again, we have more than 90 percent success before the Curia, so the Curia shared more than 90 percent of our opinion. A few words about the prosecution's international activities. As in previous years, our international relations are extremely intense and well developed. In particular, judicial cooperation is intensive with EU partner countries and with EU bodies. Special mention should be given to our participation in Eurojust and OLAF's work. We are actively involved in and working with these organisations, and both organisations recognise this. I should specifically mention the joint investigation teams set up under Eurojust and the fact that OLAF's Director has repeatedly acknowledged the work of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office. We are also present at expert level on a number of international scenes, conferences, various meetings. In 2016, 271 public prosecutors attended 170 international events. This, by the way, is a 40% increase compared to 2015. There is only one sentence about farming: our farming is stable and we will continue to develop the infrastructure that we started in 2000. The results of this, I think, speak for themselves. We need to continue to build a career as a prosecutor, and we need to do so together with the courts, because the courts and prosecutors are in a judicial package here, which, by the way, I consider to be in line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law. Here, too, I would like to thank all prosecutorial staff for their performance in 2016, as I believe that Hungary's prosecution has acted legally, timely and effectively this year as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-30-72	Thank you, Attorney General. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision. [[14.40]]
u2017-11-30-73	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, first of all, to welcome Mr. Péter Polt and his colleagues at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament with special respect, and to begin my expozem with a quote in the Latin language, which reflects the functioning of all authorities and bodies belonging to and associated with justice in Hungary, including the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The same is true in Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 November 2017, the Judicial Committee discussed the report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2016 and supported its adoption by 7 yes and 4 no votes and no abstentions. The Judicial Committee concluded that the report provides detailed information to the National Assembly on the tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with criminal justice, public prosecutor's activities and on the work related to judicial control and supervision procedures. In the view of the majority of the Committee, the prosecutor's organisation carries out its activities within the legal framework, in accordance with the requirements of timeliness, and has carried out its activities at all levels in 2016. Ladies and Gentlemen, The interest of a prosecutor in timeliness is also well shown by the figure that 84 percent of cases in the prosecutor's phase have been completed within 30 days. I cannot tell you that my fellow Members from the Committee on Justice have asked the Honourable Attorney General for certain specific matters in a highly objectionable style - [[To intervene:]] Yes, Your Honor, the Attorney General - and you obviously couldn't get an answer to that. [[Attila Mesterházy: Obviously.]] In this context, I also took the view at the committee meeting that the constitutional status of the Prosecutor's Office does not allow it [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] that the Members of Parliament should order investigations or indictments [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Gyula Budai should be told!]] and to be held liable for a specific decision by the Attorney General. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall not be liable for decisions taken by Parliament in the course of its investigation or for decisions taken during the prosecution or prosecution. This is not what the 2016 report of the Attorney General should be about. The report shall include a description of general trends, general administrative tasks and, in general, an activity carried out as a contributor to the administration of justice. According to the majority of the committee, the 2016 report submitted by the Attorney General fully complied with this. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the Judicial Committee shall be composed of B/17351. No 84 of the House Rules. In its proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Act, the Parliament is recommended to adopt it. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] In its proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, Parliament is recommended to adopt it. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause from the ranks of Fidesz. )
u2017-11-30-74	I will ask you if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Pál Völner. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He says he doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-30-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Attorney General and Colleagues, Hungary's Fundamental Law places important tasks on the prosecution, since the prosecutor's office is the sole representative of the state's criminal claim and carries out the tasks which the Fundamental Law and other laws entrust to it. We received a detailed report at the meeting of the Judicial Committee and the report submitted was supplemented by additions from the Attorney General. In my view, at the committee's meeting, the questions asked were answered exhaustively and correctly. At the meeting, as the previous speaker mentioned, the Committee decided to support the adoption of the report, with 7 votes against, 4 votes against and no abstentions. Please allow me to summarise in a few sentences the report on the activities of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in the last year, which, overall, can be stated that the prosecutor's organisation did a good job in 2016. I would like to build my speech around four very important issues, including the criminal and public interest protection activities of the prosecutor's office, international cooperation and the impact of migration on the prosecutor's office, which is of great importance today. Article 29 of the Fundamental Law lays down the constitutional basis for the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which states that the Public Prosecutor's Office, as a public prosecutor, is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. All of this includes investigation, prosecution and prosecution. I'd like to start by saying a few words about prosecution before a criminal court. The prosecutors of the prosecution's organisation shall enforce the State's criminal law claim before the court and shall contribute to the compliance of the decisions of the court with all the requirements laid down in the law. In 2016, the prosecution was carried out in an essentially unchanged legal environment and with a similar number of registered offences in the previous year. Among the most important objectives, I would like to mention improving the timeliness of criminal proceedings by making full use of the system of penalties in force, achieving the imposition of individualised penalties and, to this end, standardising the prosecution's activities before a criminal court. Organisational changes have also been made to better professional action against certain priority crimes such as corruption, organised crime, terrorism and money laundering. Accordingly, on 1 January 2016 the Highest Anti-Corruption and Organised Crime Division was established, which greatly facilitates the effective detection of these cases. The data on crime show that the number of cases registered and pending in 2016 was 715 662, which shows a downward trend compared to previous years. The pursuit of timeliness is well demonstrated by the fact that 84 percent of cases have been completed within 30 days, which is a very good result. The prosecution's activity to speed up cases is well demonstrated by the fact that in 2016, 29,4 percent of all indictments were not brought to trial, and in more than 88 percent of the defendants concerned, the order made without trial became final. I think this is a very important figure. The institution of the court is still being urged by the prosecution to cooperate with the court. In 2016, this took place at 24,8 percent of the total indictment. This represents an increase of more than 34 percent compared to recent years. It is important to point out that in 2016 the number of expulsion sentences has doubled again in the context of the crisis caused by mass immigration. This data shows that the prosecutor's organisation also responds successfully to the challenges posed by migration. I would also like to mention here that the number of registered smugglers has fallen by nearly half compared to the previous year. In the context of the prosecution activity before the criminal court, it is of great importance that significant attention has been paid to the procedures relating to the crime of money laundering in the last year, given that the experience described in the report shows that a widespread method of crime has been introduced worldwide, known as criminalistic terminology derailment. International cooperation in criminal matters is essential in this area, which I will discuss later. The role of the Central Investigator's Attorney General is paramount in order to combat official crimes and corruption more effectively, with jurisdiction throughout the country. [[14.50]] Several departments of the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office are particularly concerned about the fight against corruption. Given the specific nature of the detection of corruption offences, effective cooperation with various investigative authorities such as the counter-terrorism centre, the Alert Police and the secret services is essential. The effective cooperation of the Attorney General's staff with those bodies has established the successful work of the Public Prosecutor's Office in a number of cases. As far as legislation is concerned, I would like to point out that it is in the common interest of legislators and law enforcement professions to bring about legislation that is good for use, effective and meet the highest professional requirements in the area of justice as a whole. I cannot go without saying that, here in Parliament, the adoption of a new criminal law law was decisive in the field of criminal law. The new Be. In the preparation and codification of its text, the DA's staff were actively involved, and their professional proposals contributed to the fact that a new, unified version of Annex XXI was adopted. A Code of Criminal Procedure, which meets the requirements of the 20th century. Dear House, In the introduction, I mentioned that according to the Fundamental Law, the prosecution has additional public interest protection powers in addition to its classic capacity to represent the prosecution. The public interest protection tasks of the prosecutor shall be governed by the fundamental provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act and other laws. In this context, the Public Prosecutor's Office used the authority to sue financial service providers, insurance undertakings and entities engaged in the distribution of real estate as a result of the unfair conduct of the general terms and conditions. In 2016, the Public Prosecutor's Office filed more than 5,000 actions using its legal right to bring an action. Dear House, In assessing the international activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, international cooperation will continue to be strengthened, and we will be able to make significant progress in this area in 2016. The situation in Europe certainly justifies increased cooperation between national prosecutors and relevant EU bodies, including, of course, cooperation between national prosecutors. As you know, the European Union faces major challenges in the areas of terrorism, organised crime, cybercrime and radicalisation. The security of each Member State within the Union and the Schengen area is the internal security of almost all Member States. It is therefore necessary for Member States to cooperate, to exchange relevant information without delay and to improve joint analysis and operational coordination. The report shows that the Attorney General was actively involved in some forms of European and regional prosecutor cooperation in 2016. In this context, I would like to highlight the steps already taken by the Hungarian prosecution in relation to the establishment of a European network against cybercrime. We can say that our domestic authorities are already ready to cooperate in this form. In the area of international relations, it can also be said that, as in previous years, the international activity of the prosecution at expert level has served two main objectives: on the one hand, to facilitate work on specific matters in the form of technical consultation with foreign co-governments and strengthening border relations, and, on the other hand, to provide the widest possible opportunity to train prosecutorial staff abroad or in a foreign language with foreigners. I would like to highlight the progress made by the European Anti-Fraud Office, known as OLAF, in matters falling within the competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In 2016, OLAF sent a total of ten recommendations to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, in which it was proposed to prosecute. In six cases, the D.A. has ordered an investigation on suspicion of fiscal fraud, in four cases the recommendation and the final report containing the results of the investigation have been evaluated in an ongoing investigation. In his oral report, we heard that the Director-General of OLAF himself stated on several occasions and in front of the press that he considered cooperation with the Hungarian authorities, including the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, to be very fruitful. The coordination meetings organised and financed by Eurojust continued to be an important stage for effective EU cooperation in specific criminal matters. Eurojust is the Agency for Criminal Judicial Cooperation between the Member States of the European Union. Its task is to support the fight against serious cross-border crime, in particular organised crime, the coordination of criminal proceedings in the Member States, the fulfilment of requests for judicial cooperation and the implementation of decisions based on the principle of mutual recognition. Hungary has been a member of Eurojust since 2004 and its participation tasks have been fulfilled by the Public Prosecutor's Office. As regards legal aid, the international cooperation of judicial authorities, including prosecutors, has remained intense in recent years because of the fight against organised crime and other adverse global phenomena across national borders. According to the report, procedural legal aid has typically been dealt with in criminal proceedings for crimes against property, crimes of tax and fiscal fraud, trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. I would like to emphasise the development of exemplary cooperation with the co-governments of the EU Member States concerned in the case of the detection of a case involving multiple trafficking in human beings, which is a major contribution to the full-scale detection of a series of extremely serious crimes. An example of this effective international cooperation in criminal matters is the request for legal assistance from a central judicial authority in the Federal Republic of Germany to the Attorney General for the provision of information on a person subject to proceedings in a German territory. At the end of 2014, the German suspect joined the Islamic State terrorist organisation as an armed fighter and, on the basis of a mandate, conducted a mapping of the so-called Balkan route for migrants in order to identify the possibility of infiltrating ISIS members across the region to Europe. The requested information was obtained by the Public Prosecutor's Office and made available to the German party, bearing in mind the exceptional nature of the proceedings. On this basis, it can be concluded that the international activities of the prosecutor's office have recently increased and have met this challenge. Dear House, In our view, in 2016, the Hungarian prosecutor's organisation carried out legal and effective work, and on this basis it can also be said that the prosecutor's office fulfilled the requirements which the rule of law could impose on it. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Public Prosecutor's Office for their activities in 2016 and ask my fellow Members to support and accept this report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2017-11-30-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members, and we will continue our work. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy, who is speaking here on the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Attorney General. Assistant Attorney General, gentlemen! The Attorney General's report - I can now say as a tradition - has an established structure. Unfortunately, I would add, because we would much prefer that the prosecution operate in a state of law and not to discuss what was left out of his report, but to discuss what was in it. Unfortunately, it doesn't. The first round of thought is still about thanks. Thank you for the work of the prosecutors, who, if you leave them upstairs, are pursuing crime, working honestly and with honor to preserve our public security. We also respectfully thank you for the work of prosecutors who help prosecutors do this. However, in practice, the independence and constitutional role of an independent public body is always determined by the activities of its senior managers, especially in a highly hierarchyed organisation. As they say, fish reeks of its head. Even though 99.9 percent of prosecutors do their job fairly, the constitutional role of the prosecutor's organisation in practice will be determined by 0.1 percent. [[15.00]] This phenomenon cannot be measured as a percentage. A constitution will also become unacceptable, and it cannot be said as a rule of law if it does not include, say, the right to life or the principle of division of powers, even though 99.9 percent of the remaining is acceptable. The top management of the prosecutor's office - respect for the exception - operates politically biasedly, even serving political interests. And if the report of the head of an independent public body is discussed by the National Assembly, in this case the Chief Prosecutor, my assessment of the backbone of criticism should be primarily the assessment of his involvement in the constitutional system, not the assessment of criminal statistics. In fact, if the former is not acceptable, the latter is not worth mentioning, at least here in Parliament. I would quote headlines not from politicians, but from an investigative portal. å Péter Polt, protector of Fidesz or legality? "He asks the question," he said. The most important pillar of the Orbán system is the Arch of the Attorney General Péter Polt, or: the skeletons are gathering in Péter Polt's closet - so the prosecutor's office depraved as a minister of politics. Our opinion is the same. In your hearing with the Commission, you asked, Mr Attorney General, that if we have evidence that you carry out political orders and that you decide personally on matters we consider to be political, we will present it to you. Well, Mr. Attorney General, we've never had a problem with your mental skills or your professional skills, but what you're using all this for. Maybe you don't think we're stupid. And anyone who thinks that you're so careless that you're still giving orders on political matters that can be proven later is a fool. And so would you if you did. Well, it's not. So asking us to account for this is cynical to support our claims. The parliamentary judgement of the prosecution's work is not based on the rules and logic of judicial proceedings. But I'm sure I won't tell you another thing when I say that even in criminal proceedings, where evidence requires the conviction of a criminal judge, they will base a judgment on circumstantial evidence if they find its closed chain to be established. We have circumstantial evidence to support our claims, which, in our firm position, form a closed chain, thus clearly proving our claims. And, you know, we're not technically locked away from our coworkers. We know the counterarguments. Imre Vejkey, President of the Commission, has also mentioned this in his speech that the Attorney General should not be called into account in the debate on his report on specific matters. This is true, in fact, that the assessment of individual cases and cases does not have any significance at the moment, but the general conclusions that can be drawn from their lineup. The general conclusions, which Imre Vejkey also spoke about, are that it should be here in the Commission debate. The prosecution's work after 1956 is not essentially judged by whether it was possible to record on tape how many times János Kádár or the Minister of Justice called the Attorney General at the time, and what specific requirements he may have made for him in specific cases, or what documented written instructions he gave, but also on the basis of what conclusions can be reached about the prosecution's work by analysing the cases and procedures. It's no different today. Therefore, it is important to mention specific cases because we justify them year after year, at least in our view that while Fidesz's opponents are being prosecuted even when they initiate unjustified, or conceptual, procedures, they cover up the crimes of the Fidesz. Especially if it concerns the Prime Minister directly, the Prime Minister's family or his narrowest circles. That they tend to time their procedural actions, suspicions, indictments, detentions. That they use theatrical devices on occasion. To specifically leak the documents of the proceedings to the current Fidesz press, of course, only if they are Fidesz's opponents; and the Fidesz cases are not informed in order to ensure the effectiveness of the procedure. That I've never seen a fidesz politician on TV on a ledger before, but more opposition. And I could tell you more. You're not trying to make us believe, Mr. Attorney General, that these are the decisions of the acting junior prosecutor, are you? You can't decide on an everyday matter on your own, let alone a minister. As an evasive little addition to what we've done so far, it's an actuality. Gyula Budai, a former Fidesz Commissioner for Accountancy, who commies the entire judiciary at your committee hearing, not only answered willingly, which would otherwise be his duty in all such cases, but also read out from his paper details of the deadline for the investigation, when they contacted the British Anti-Fraud Office, about the new data they obtained from there, how many suspects there are in the case, which department of the police is investigating, and the rest; month, day, exact data, details of the case, and future prosecutions of the prosecutor's office. This is only a problem because it was an immediate question that does not need to be sent to you in writing in advance. And from his title, which sounded like this:, Can we expect an extension of the investigation in the biggest corruption scandal in Hungary's history? He couldn't have predicted which case or case they'd be asking you about. And yet you hit them both. He was reading the data from his paperwork. I'm guessing you don't have all the data in your head about the hundreds of thousands of cases, and I'm guessing there's a lot of big corruption cases in the D.A.'s office. So, either Gyula Budai has been consulted in advance, or matters of political concern, which, by the way, you don't think is a category, you know it, or you're a veteran. But mostly the last two. Returning to what I have said in connection with the memorization of the cases, here we confirm year after year in the debate on the report that it is as I have said. It won't be any different today. In order to draw the conclusion, it is necessary to set out the underlying claims. In February 2016, there was a major political scandal that the Hungarian National Bank had pushed more than 200 billion forints of public money into foundations; you know, about which they wanted to state with a later unconstitutional amendment proposal that they had lost their public money. On the basis of the data published, it became clear that the foundations did not use public funds for the purposes set out in their statutes, and even the minutes were manipulated by one of these foundations. Day after day, the found out how the foundation funds migrated to the relatives, mates, of the central bank president, and how the foundations became a fidesz paying place. We have also filed charges in these cases. No pictures, no voices from these D.A.'s office. The only thing on the cake is that your wife and daughter work at the National Bank of Hungary, and in the hours of the scandal, you, Mr. Attorney General, spoke in private with the President of the Central Bank in a restaurant. I suppose that's also the reason for the silence. Then there is the scandal of so-called Panamanian writings, in which many of the world's celebrities, including allegedly Hungarian pro-government politicians and oligarchs, are involved in the offshore scandal. They say the National Bureau of Investigation is also involved in the investigation. Somehow, we don't have any information on this from the D.A.'s office. Then Tamás Portik, a known criminal, confessed in criminal proceedings to Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda. The case was filed, which the D.A. rejected, instead of examining the case in substance. I'm gonna say this again, not formally. During the same year, the ongoing investigation against the Minister was terminated on real estate in the city, where the same Tamás Portik was surprisingly involved. Then another defendant, László Vizoviczki, who, in exchange for earlier campaign support to Fidesz, asked a vice president of Fidesz for help to get out of custody in advance. You don't think there's any problem with that. Then there's the bald thing. According to the court, István Nyakó was forcibly prevented from launching a referendum on Sunday's lockdown. That's why the court has given him justice in legal proceedings. The press guys identified the attackers by name. You don't think there's been any crime, so there's a good chance that the Fidesz Vice President involved in the Vizoviczki case has ordered the operation. If the procedure hadn't been terminated, one of the bald guys would have confessed. Then there is the Pharaon case, in which the Prime Minister's family dealt with an FBI wanted criminal here in Hungary. This doesn't involve a prosecutor's investigation of the Prime Minister's kinship. [[15.10]] The property rental cases in Ferencváros and the 1st district are also here by the Fidesz Municipality. I would like to note here that yesterday afternoon I received thanks for the compilation of some of the cases raised at the committee meeting. On one point, I have to clarify what I said there: according to the I. district real estate case, there is indeed an investigation, until December 27th, then there is a deadline, a month left. I've never heard of a fidesz politician who was taken or accused of this case. Do it, if there is one, you'll inform us about it, and I'll ask you if there will be. In the other cases, he did not contradict what I said at the time as a criticism, at least not in my opinion. Let's move on, because this has also been mentioned, let's look at the case of Fidesz MP Sándor Farkas, who forgot to include a HUF 1.5 billion grant in his wealth statement! You also believe that this is not a crime, but a simple forgetfulness, as you said in yesterday's letter: the difference in interpretation of the company's manager's prospectus. Is it really realistic to forget a billion and a half forints? There's so much money even the richest ones are counting. And you also think it's okay for someone to force a journalist down the stairs, as they did with Julia Halász, unless, of course, that person is the Fidesz Deputy Cabinet Manager of the NewBuda municipality. It was written in their resolution that no crime could be identified. Why is that? Violent behavior against a person, I'm told, is. If I'm going to say this, based on your letter, in the case of a journalist dragged down by his hair, because of a crime of breach of information or data, then of course that's understandable. But you also think it's justified that the investigation into the fake parties has been terminated. According to the State Audit Office, serious irregularities have also occurred, and these parties - but let's just say that the political companies that profited Fidesz - were unable to account for the campaign money paid by the State, but, in the election, the water was turned to Fidesz, and they probably collected their recommendations with Fidesz support, and they defended them. One of the most interesting cases in 2016 was the so-called Voldemort case, in which they could no longer prevent the prosecution of Fidesz MEP Mengyi Roland, but it turned out that his actions had been prevented by higher orders, even though the detectives were already on the lookout. Where is the person responsible for this? And there is no such thing as, in the case of a criminal organisation, where applications are ordered, which is the subject of the Mengyi case, which is directed to a company, and then, in the Ministry, it can be proven that applications are issued under such conditions, but this is not responsible there, nor are they prosecuting any department chief or former head, and this crime necessarily has two sides. How's that? And how come Mr. Mengyi didn't have the D.A. make a motion to arrest him in advance? And we could also list the suspected crimes identified by the press and investigative portals to the Prime Minister's son-in-law, his stooge, Lőrinc Mészáros, and all this is just the tip of the iceberg. If I know, then obviously you, too, are taking companies from people, often with powerful support from the NAV, by oligarchs and relatives close to Fidesz, and you're letting them, even though it's not our job to prevent them, and it's not even the investigative journalists', but yours, who have the powers, the means and the information they need to detect, and even classified information. On the other hand, there are once again complete exemptions from criminal offences against Fidesz's opponents or from the substantive indictments of the indictment. In particular, there were two such cases in 2016: it turned out that there were no bribes in whiskey boxes or in nokis boxes, with the powerful help of the prosecutor's office, which filled election campaigns. But there is no need for a new case, because the campaign has the Czeglédy case, for example, in which if Gyula Budai Fideszes is a commissioner for accountability, you know, who says - free after the D.A., all judges are commies, in the press ordering from the authorities, they already listen to the wife of the former Prime Minister. Of course, Czeglédy is under arrest in advance, as was the majority of the other suspected opposition politicians, but not Lord Mengyi, Voldemort, nor any Fidesz prominents. And it has long been not only about former socialist leaders, but about everyone who opposes Fidesz. It speaks of a better-looking MEP, who is suspected a few days before the elections to the European Parliament, and then, by chance, is being prosecuted in the campaign for the 18th elections, in case a court hearing is possible before the election. But it also talks about non-politicians, such as leaders of critical civil society organisations with Fidesz, or entrepreneurs who do not want to give their business to Fidesz. More and more people say that today the real gap in Hungary is slowly not based on party positions, but along the lines of morality as to which side it stands in terms of the latter. It is not the most decisive difference between us who sits in which faction or who is a member of which party, but who is a part and beneficiary of institutional state corruption and who is not. Because, as the saying goes, he is an accomplice among sinners who are mute, yet the real sinner is not the mute. Well, if I look at the role of the prosecution today, there is no question, on the basis of the new division outlined here, which side of the trench you are on, but not even that you are not a mute, and I also claim that you are not a helper of the sinners, but one of them, and not a minor member of the trench: the one that conceals institutionalized state corruption. Once again, when I mention a prosecutor's office for the sake of simplicity, of course, I don't mean the board and even the district attorneys, but some of the top executives of the board and their samosas. In return, the problem is not primarily that sinners do not receive their punishment, although it would not be a problem either, but that the state would not work that way if the attorney general did his job if the attorney general and his associates were not loyal to Fidesz, but to the nation and their oath. Hungary should not be looted by robbery, it would not be enough to say cynical sentences to thieves here in the House or outside, if they had to be afraid that what they are doing would have criminal consequences. That is why we firmly state that the prosecution has become an integral part of the corrupt state system, institutionalized corruption, which is no longer a simple criminal law issue, but rather a substantially transcendent activity affecting the fate of the country, a historical sin, which is why I think it is slowly more significant that this is a topic in Parliament than it is now in court. Historical sins, since they are usually committed by representatives of power, are of the nature to be judged and condemned by posterity, sometimes when those involved are no longer alive. Photos will be posted later on the museum walls, and posterity is not usually or not based on the dogma of criminal law, but on historical, social and political grounds. I wish you good health and a long life to live well. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-30-79	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, First of all, I assure you, don't be alarmed. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: We won't!]] I would like to reiterate, in connection with the 2016 report by the Attorney General, because I am not doing this to repeat what I have already done not long ago as Chairman of the Judicial Committee, but specifically to highlight why Christian Democrats support the 2016 report of the Chief Prosecutor, and given that Gergely Bárándy, who spoke directly to me, can counter-point his baseless negative judgment positively and with real facts. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Is this printed, Imre?]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats believe that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the entire prosecutor's organisation themselves made a significant contribution to legal certainty in 2016, as well as to the prosecution's criminal activities as well as to the public prosecutor's activities. Not to mention the fact that, under the powers conferred by the Attorney General, the heads of the Public Prosecutor's Office made corrective observations in 2016 to almost a quarter of the drafts sent to the Attorney General. The most important legislative preparation work on the part of the Public Prosecutor's Board is also Be. It was recoding. [[15.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The most prominent part of the prosecution's activities is the prosecution's duties relating to criminal justice. In this context, the prosecutor's office considered that in 2016, the investigation investigation investigation, as well as the preparation of charges and the prosecution investigation, had done a very good job. I would also like to thank and congratulate the Attorney General for his high level of work. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Christian Democrats consider the work of the Attorney General himself to be extremely high, despite all the unfounded accusations of opposition, which are unjust and unworthy. Ladies and Gentlemen, Christian Democrats also appreciate the international activities of the prosecution. In particular, cooperation with the European Anti-Fraud Office, i.e. OLAF, which aims to better control the proper use of EU funds. And we were pleased to see that this relationship between the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the prosecutor's organisation and OLAF is only getting stronger every day. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the main prosecutor's report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2016. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-30-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-30-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Attorney General, Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, The Attorney General also began his speech by quoting Article 29 of the Fundamental Law, that the prosecution, as a public prosecutor, was the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. In this regard - and we agree that this is the case in the law - we have already formulated our criticism, the point of which is that the problem is not that the prosecutor's office is the sole enforcer, but that we should reverse it: if the prosecution does not press charges somewhere, then there will be no crime. You can't convict people the D.A. doesn't prosecute. Of course, there is a special case, the institution of the substitute private property, when the victim himself decides not to press charges, then he can prosecute and continue to prosecute or prosecute, but this is a special situation. The basic problem is that, as my fellow Member Bárándy has already said in his speech as the lead speaker, there is no criminal prosecution of certain people in Hungary, there is no investigation of certain people, even if there is a complaint, these investigations will not start, and in such a case it will not be possible to go to the really independent court, which can judge whether there has been a crime or a crime. Why do I say that and why do I call it a problem? I say this because Hungary is on the world list of corruption every year very, very steeply down the slope. This period dates from the time of the second Orbán government, in a way that we now occupy a very, very prestigious place in the world ranking of corruption. In the European Union, we can see that Romania and I have come to the same level, we have managed to catch up with Romania in corruption, we are no longer preventing them, they are not us, there are worse corruption situations in Bulgaria and Greece than in Hungary, and soon the country will reach the level of Somalia. Why is that? Why is this public mood in Hungary, why is this the opinion of international organisations about Hungary? I think we need to look for two main culprits here. One of the main responsibilities is politics, a policy whose political will is to make certain crimes in Hungary either not a crime, although it is from the point of view of the people, or if the crime is carried out, it should not be covered up. In particular, the lack of transparency in economic processes, public procurement, the distribution of EU funds, the distribution of public funds, and the lack of control of them give people the opportunity to benefit from corruption in Hungary. The Attorney General writes in one place in his report that even criminal data is worse, we cannot conclude that the corruption situation in Hungary has deteriorated. I'm asking you, what can we conclude from these data? What can we conclude from the fact that Hungary is now just two countries ahead of the global corruption ranking in the European Union, Bulgaria and Greece? And what do people see? Wherever we go, in any city and look at public procurement, we see that public procurement is constantly overpriced, we can talk about overpriced implementation, only certain interest groups, oligarchs, oligarchs with political backgrounds can get public investment, only they can build them, and only they can win the procurement procedure. And when they look at an investment, they see that they are not made at double prices, not at triple prices, but often at six to eight to ten times the price, and there is no procedure in these. Of course, the majority of governments say why they don't like to press charges when this happens. How many times do opposition politicians press charges? ! But it must be noted that we do not have those tools. We don't have the resources to investigate, we don't have the professional knowledge, we don't have the expertise to investigate, so obviously we can't investigate like the police or the prosecutor's office, which has the right background. And if we can't prove it, but even if we know what's going on, we'll reject the complaint. And in Hungary it is said that corruption is not strengthening. It is interesting that everyone in Hungary thinks so, that the prosecution and the police may not, but the vast majority of people think that corruption is one of the biggest problems in Hungary today. As I said, the policy is responsible for this, that there is no political will, and on the other hand, it is the law enforcement agencies that are responsible for letting this happen. Both the police and the D.A. are responsible for this. Obviously, the D.A.'s office is more exponentially responsible for the fact that this isn't happening. The previous speaker also mentioned the problem that we have never seen a Fidesz politician take him on a ledger, because that does not happen. And not because there are no crimes, but because unfortunately there can be no accountability. Ninety-five percent of people in Hungary feel that they cannot be held accountable to pro-government politicians, let alone at a leading level, or even at the middle level, because only those who want to intervene will hit their ankles. That's what I see as the main problem today in judging the state of the prosecution. Indeed, prosecutors, a very, very large majority of public prosecutorial staff, are legally, in accordance with the law, conscientiously performing their duties. I would also like to thank all the prosecutors, all the prosecutors, all the employees and all those who, subject to the legislation, accept them, are conscientiously involved in their sacrifices. They deserve to be thanked, for they work well and do all they can to enforce the truth. [[15.30]] But the prosecution's judgment in Hungary will be wrong, yet the prosecution's judgment is wrong, precisely because of what I said. But there are other things, other problems. These include drug abuse. I read from this main prosecutor's report that, in fact, there has been no change in Hungary in the case of drug abuse, and the situation is similar to that in previous years. But what do we experience? What do we experience at the ends, what do we experience in the countryside? What we see is that part of the population, mainly in the village, is constantly using drugs, constantly committing crimes, constantly drugging the majority of the population. And there's actually nothing going on. Obviously, legislation is also difficult to follow the changes that are taking place in the drug business, but I think that much more attention should also be paid to the investigating authorities. In many cases, everyone knows who sells drugs, they know very well who drug dealers are. In the same way, the police know who they are, yet they do not take action, but they do not eliminate these gangs, yet they let a very large part of the population continue to be drug users. And this drug experience brings with it a series of new crimes, violent crimes that would otherwise be inexplicable with common sense and would not be committed. I think there should be a lot more attention to this, too, and that should be held back. I read from the report that there are 984 of the crimes against the purity of public life, and there were 761 of them in the previous year. It seems to me that this is also a strong increase, although you note here that it was a former 3268; this was so much because of the language exams. There is also a significant increase in the number of government bribes. In 2014 there were 141 pieces, and now there are 333 pieces in 15 and 835 pieces, so the data for 2014 is almost six times the figure for 2016. Then, Mr Attorney General, you note here that from these figures it cannot be concluded that the corruption situation would have deteriorated significantly. I don't know, so what do you get from these if there's a six-fold increase in government bribery in two years? We can also see a rise in economic crime. After all, in 2014, there were 6 thousand, 7700 in 2015, and 31 thousand in the last year. There is also a quadruple, four and a half times increase in one year. In particular, it can be seen that the number of offences involving cash substitute payment instruments is 23 492 out of 31,000. So, technically, they make up almost three quarters. I think when there's such an explosion in a crime group, something should be done. I think it's our shared responsibility. On the one hand, the Public Prosecutor's Office has a role in the legislation because it gives an opinion on the drafts, it can make a proposal. So we obviously have a shared responsibility here, and we should also do something about it in Parliament, how we should intervene when we meet with such an outstanding number, but I would also like to expect the Attorney General to make a proposal in this area. The number of budgetary frauds is slight, if the 15 percent increase can be called mildly in one year, but it has also increased to 2444 from 2154. This highlights VAT fraud. There are results on this, but I think that the investigating authority could be more effective in this. The prosecution mentioned that the prosecution had further improved by 0.2 per cent, 97.5 per cent; obviously, this is an interesting assessment. Of course, it's only natural that the higher it is, the more it reflects the fact that the D.A. would work well if it weren't for the problems I was talking about. Yes, the prosecution's involvement in the legislation, I've already mentioned that. There are opinions on draft legislation and 8 prosecutors working in the judicial wallet in the legislation. I think that we should pay more attention to these then and make proposals on how Parliament could intervene in rising trends. I would also like to ask Mr Attorney General one of those questions, and the issue of the European Public Prosecutor's Office has been raised several times recently in Hungary. I read from the report that the Attorney General gave a presentation in Shanghai, at the scientific academy there, on this issue in the autumn of 2016. I would like to ask what is the position of the Attorney General regarding the introduction of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in Hungary. I have a question about the job shortage, the state's office's vacant jobs. In 2016, 6.4 percent of prosecutorial posts were unfilled, as I can see. That meant 91 jobs. This is approximately the same as the unfilled prosecutor's post in 2015. I'd like to ask you if you don't want to fill these posts. I mean, there's a lot of people in the D.A.'s office who want to be appointed. Then we don't need these prosecutors, this 91 prosecutors, or why haven't these places been filled for years? Why can't the subconscious move forward, why can't they get appointed if there's 91 jobs in years? That would have been my question. The next problem that has been raised, and what is said many times here in Parliament, is the accountability of state aid granted to certain gypsy organisations and the case of Parliamentary Representative Flórian Farkas. This is a problem every day here in Parliament. We see that there is no progress in this either. We see that certain gypsy organisations receive billions of subsidies from the Hungarian state and cannot account for them. These missing amounts will be paid by the state, and then we'll see that nothing happens. Chief Prosecutor, is there anything going on? Is there an investigation into these cases? If there's an investigation, how does it look? I would definitely like to ask you that. Another problem that doesn't concern criminal law. As I understand it correctly, Mr Attorney General has initiated a legislative review of 16 cases at the Constitutional Court. In this regard, I have repeatedly indicated, because this is an insult to us, obviously not because of you and the prosecution's organisation, that the two-thirds majority of Fidesz-KDNP has taken away the possibility for citizens to turn to the Constitutional Court in the last cycle, if there were legal violations or constitutional violations. I think it will be the greater responsibility of the prosecution to turn to the Constitutional Court on such matters. I would like to encourage them to do so much more often and to consult the Constitutional Court much more frequently. The same problem was the handling of complaints. Again, this is not for you, and not for you, but for the legislator, so it is for us, and here again the Fidesz two thirds have done so in the last term, that they have taken away the possibility that, in criminal proceedings, if the investigating authority rejects the complaint, there is no room for complaint if we are not the victims. It's a very common rejection. What does that strengthen? Again, it strengthens the possibility of state corruption. After all, we are the victims of state money, in fact, the victims of those 10 million Hungarian people, but we are not legally offended. So the complaint can be filed by a Member of Parliament, but if it is rejected, even if it is said for a reason, then there is nothing we can do, because we cannot complain, because we are not the victims of that case. In this case, we would expect much more attention from the investigating authority, much more conscientious answers, much more conscientious investigation of the matter, because, unfortunately, if this does not happen, the country's perception will continue to deteriorate, we will go further on the path of sinking even further in the world ranking of corruption, and, unfortunately, we will end up in the last place in the European Union. [[15.40]] I say, yes, that this has a huge responsibility for the prosecution, and it is also that political affairs or cases against politicians are actually taking place, which, I think, are not for nothing on the part of the prosecution during election campaigns. We're still there, a month or two, the election campaign starts, and I'm about to see what they're gonna come up with, which they've been listening to for 3 to 3.5 years, in which nothing happened, those cases will be taken out by the D.A.'s office by accident in the 2018 election campaign. How do you think that if you work like this, you won't be assumed to be engaged in political activity or to be engaged in political ordering when this happens on your part? I think it's your responsibility again, and most of all, it's the chief prosecutor's responsibility. On this basis, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot accept the report of the Attorney General. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-30-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Ákos Hadházy, who also speaks from this platform. I'll wait for Congressman to come over here. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy goes up to the pulpit.]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I came up here to the platform, indicating that we are talking about one of Hungary's biggest problems, because the operation or failure of the Hungarian prosecutor's office is one of Hungary's biggest problems, but I also promise that I will be going down very soon, this speech will not take long, because meaningless work is always very depressing, and I think that today the meaning of this meeting would be very difficult to see. It is very difficult, because we could in principle ask the Attorney General, we could do this in the Judicial Committee, but just as in the case of written questions, the answers are more to avoid real answers than to give real answers, there is not really much point in being here. I would like to draw attention to three facts, which I think point to everything, in contrast to what we have listened to here for a very long, very long time. The D.A.'s office says it's a fantastic success against corruption all the time. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when I asked how many of the 987 corruption cases involved politicians in 2016, then Péter Polt could not answer, could not or did not want to answer, but we all know that this number is approaching zero, it is very close to zero, and I think that from the many numbers we have heard here, this number is important that in 2016 there was a procedure in zero corruption cases involving zero politicians. The next thing I want to draw your attention to, I also think it does not require any big speeches to say that Flórian Farkas is still at large, he concludes the election cooperation with Fides with a broad smile typical of him. I think if it's anything, it'll tell you everything about the work of the Hungarian prosecution. A third case that government representatives like to talk about, let's talk about it, and that's the case of subway construction. This is a case where possible crimes occurred in 2005-2006; compared to this, it is 2017 and we are in the near future of the limitation period. It is amazing that when pro-government representatives say that this is the biggest corruption case ever in Hungary, the prosecutor's office starts working practically waiting for the statute of limitations. And the prosecutor's office, which has hundreds of colleagues, but if we brought in the police and investigative authorities, thousands of colleagues would be able to investigate these cases, this prosecutor's office is waiting to investigate OLAF, when they know very well that OLAF has a maximum number of people working on Hungarian affairs. At the end of the day, let me say that I was very shocked to hear from the Justice Committee when the Attorney General turned to me and told me to show proof that he was ever trying to personally influence or stop investigations involving fidesz politicians. It was rather cynical, I had a very déjà vu feeling, and I saw it on TV when János Lázár stepped out in front of the cameras at the beginning of the traffic case, and he said with a smile very similar to your smile to show me evidence who had evidence that he had influenced the judgement of the traffics. That made me feel very bad when you said that, and you said that, and you know very well that I cannot be in possession of such evidence, because your position is such that any time you are under any investigation, any hearing, any gathering of evidence, you would know about it. So it's obvious you're asking for evidence that's supposed to be difficult. In principle, in practice, you have already given me this, and you know it very well, because both in the traffic case and in the case of LED lamps affecting the Prime Minister's son-in-law, and in the case of the construction of Wosinsky Kindergarten in Szekszárd, I have provided evidence that, as you well know, an independent prosecutor's office could not have allowed these investigations to be closed without an indictment. Finally, let me join Gergely Bárándy. You know very well that we do not have documents from the Communist period when one of the leaders of the state party discussed with the prosecutor how to stop cases, but we all know very well that these discussions have taken place. The cases of Fidesz, completely meaningless or incomprehensiblely closed by you, will be included in the Hungarian law history as well as the operation of the communist prosecutor's office has been included in the legal history, but also not in the decorative pages. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have two-minute speeches. [[For signal:]] Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament, asked for a two-minute speech from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman, notary.
u2017-11-30-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Chief Prosecutor, we have already seen that this government is good at statistics, and I see now that the High Prosecutor is good at this. Although I add, in a slip, in my opinion, because when we talk about 2016 you were talking about the pulpit that there was no break in the decrease in the number of registered crimes, the trend, the trend that has not broken, the trend that has been discussed, and the need to remove certain crimes - referred to in the case of Zalai - should not be taken into account. Mr Chief Prosecutor, the fact is that the evolution of the number of registered crimes increased from 2015 to 2016 by more than 10 thousand, with 10,666 crimes. In 2015, 280 113 crimes were committed and 290 779 crimes were committed in 2016. What's more than 3.8 percent more is not less. You can say anything, it's more than that, so it's worth telling the truth and talking about reality. In the meantime, you know very well that the number of economic crimes has increased, and it has already been mentioned that there has been an increase in money laundering from 7,000 to a few hundred to 31 thousand. One thing in the end, corruption. Mr Attorney General, if you are talking about statistics, let's say, in a few years or three or four years, why we came from the 47th place to 57th place in the world ranking of corruption, you should talk about why Hungary is in 24-25th place with Romania in the EU 28th place. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds.]] [[15.50]]
u2017-11-30-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have regular speeches from Members. I would like to speak first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Attila Gelencsér. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Our country has achieved significant results in the fight against crime over the last seven years. Generally speaking, the legal system has become stricter, enforcement has improved, crime detection rates have increased and the number of real crimes has decreased. The law-abiding morale has improved. According to the Prosecutor General's report, there has been a downward trend in both the number of registered offences and the number of registered offenders in recent years. The minimal 3.8 percent increase in registered crime in 2016 was merely the result of a series of credit card abuses in Zalai County, which represented 20,000 frauds. If we take this off, the downward trend is clear. The positive trend is confirmed by the decreasing trend of the number of perpetrators. Let's look at the number of registered crimes. 290 779 in 2016 and 101 494 in 2015 and in 2014 108 389 (sic!) . The number of registered offenders in the last three years: 100 933 in 2016 and 101 494 in 15 and 108 389 in 14 respectively. I am pleased that progress has also been made in timeliness, as prolonged lawsuits and judgments, long periods of administration, are a problem in many cases. According to the report, 84 percent of cases in the prosecutor's department were completed within 30 days. The deadline for 90 days of administration was only exceeded in five cases in 2016. In second-degree court proceedings, the upward trend of repeals has been reversed, as it has decreased by about 20 percent in 16 cases. This is an important result, as these repeals in many cases cause a significant delay in cases. It is good to see that the prosecution has also taken significant steps to expand and deepen international cooperation. These, for example, play an important role in the fight against growing cybercrime. As far as I know, the committee also discussed derailment, one of the methods of cybercrime, which is to penetrate the computer systems of businesses, access confidential data, redirect payments or generate new salaries, and then transfer the money to additional accounts, and then collect and launder it. Professional cooperation with China is a good initiative, as it is a great power in cyber technology. I also consider close cooperation with Eurojust with OLAF to be important. I'm honored by your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-30-88	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr Tamás Harangozó is next from the MSZP Group. I'll wait for Congressman to put his microphone on. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Attorney General. I would like to ask you a very specific question and I would like your answer - I think you will not be surprised - which we have really been dealing with together since the beginning of 2016, if that can be said, because since then we have been trying to get a meaningful answer from the High Prosecutor's Office, this KSE case in Kecskemét. That the public knows exactly what this is about: this is a corruption case that is now taking place before the court, with which, as I understand it, according to the prosecution's accusation, the Kecskemét sports association has suffered some HUF 800 million damage. In connection with his fictitious invoicing, this case arose at a time when, by the way, Gábor Zombor was a Fidesz Member of Parliament, former Secretary of State, and the current Fidesz mayor, Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, led this area as a deputy mayor responsible for sport. Let us not now go into the way in which they can stay out of this criminal proceedings, which, once again, is in court, and there are more suspects or accused people sitting on the bench, not just anyone. Seven people were accused by the District and Investigation Prosecutor of Szeged, the primary is the managing director of the local government company, the second accused is Attila Vörösmarty, the then president and group leader of Fidesz's Kecskemét organization, and Gábor Zombor is a confidant. Somehow, the two, so to speak, big gamers, those who, in my view, could not stay out of the way of every common sense of the local government, could make 800 million forints of money between a city and a municipal company, because if they were left out, that is obviously what raises the serious questions. The point is, this case is right here. At the same time, it is later revealed that two fictitious accounts will be found of HUF 54 million, separate from this case, and the money to be provided to supply sports, otherwise the bills that have been published in newspapers since then have not been counted as the operating cost of the sports clubs, but as a specific marketing activity. The account was hand-written by someone in the municipality's office that it was, in fact, accounted for on the basis of the grant contract in question, which, I repeat, could only have given money to work, these are marketing invoices. And the hardest thing - I'm saying it so easily here, because you may also feel the complete untenableness of the whole situation - is that the issuer of the invoice is the GLOBE-ÉP Ltd., a company registered in a small house in Kocséron, in Pest County, which is not going to believe, but is in liquidation, and the managing owner is being prosecuted for fiscal fraud caused by the issuing of fictitious accounts, for counterfeiting of documents and other crimes. In particular, they will not believe that this procedure is carried out against him precisely because of the fictitious invoices issued to KSE Kft. for hundreds of millions of forints. József Király, our municipal representative, filed a complaint. Then the D.A.'s office replied - and I would ask your advice to the Attorney General that he is not telling the truth now, or how it might happen that, with a year and a half apart, the Attorney General simply denies or perverts the reply of that time - that the case was examined, in its content and in its facts, it fits with the large family of 800 million that I have heard before me, otherwise we could even accept it, so - now I can quote, but I will not waste time - the prosecutor who acts by sending the case to the court hearing the case today. A year and a half have passed since then, and the last time I asked my representatives, the Attorney General replied, after the last time József Király was not even given an answer, that no, no, that is not the case, that is a complete misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the then public prosecutor's notice. I don't know what there is to misunderstand that I sent the file to the court today because it fits with that lawsuit. You wrote, Mr. Attorney General, that you have investigated this matter thoroughly, and that no crime has been identified and found that the same person who issued hundreds of millions of forints of fictitious invoices to the same company in the other half of the case will issue a HUF 54 million bill for marketing activities to the municipality in support of operating expenses. The thing is, Mr. Attorney General, we have to get a meaningful answer. Do you continue to claim that there was no crime when Fictitious marketing accounts were used instead of operating costs? [[16.00]] Someone in the accounts that the whole country can see, in 168 hours these bills were also published with a photo, and with his hand he wrote the registration number of this application in terms of settlement at the municipality. These may have been the following persons under the law. Who was it, Mr. Attorney General, or didn't you even examine this? Mayor Gábor Zombor? Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, mayor of that time? Maybe Zita Finta, then head of finance? Who, perhaps, will not be very, very surprised, is currently the appointed Chancellor of Matolcsy's building Kecskemét University. We're talking about a pretty fancy crowd here. Which one of you has registered this bill against him, Mr. Attorney General? And who, how did you find out that this was okay anyway? By the way, in the article that appeared, the journalist looked into the matter a little deeper, and talked with the other players in the case, who consistently claimed that nobody - I will say it again - had not even listened as a witness in this 54 million forint case; obviously not even the very famous people listed above, but also the company's employees, employees and other actors who might have said something relevant in this matter. After a year and a half, not very confident that you're going to give me a straight answer, I'm going to ask you a simple question: who are you protecting, Mr. Attorney General? And who of these people, who even deserves to be practically lied to today by a statement from his own investigator's attorney's office about a year and a half ago, says there was no such thing? The other matter I would like to ask you is a very recent matter, and I ask that if your colleagues can help you here now, in particular, or if they can't, then in writing, as you normally do, do so within 14 days to respond, because you may not know it by heart. The Ukrainian Parliament, Vice-President of the Rada Police Commission, contacted me in a letter because they received information from Russia that 85 thousand tonnes of gas oil had been illegally transferred through Ukraine in recent years, in 2016 as part of an anti-corruption investigation. That turned into an investigation. In order to complete the investigation, it is necessary that the Hungarian party, the Hungarian authorities help the Ukrainian authorities with any possible entry into Hungary or in any other case as legal aid. What has been sent to me, and there is a file number, and I will give it to the Attorney General, this letter shows that as early as June this year, and now in October, for the second time, the Ukrainian Supreme Prosecutor has turned to you personally as the General Prosecutor of Hungary for legal assistance. The attached letter at least shows that you did not even praise your Ukrainian partner in this case for an answer, who would obviously not only expect an answer, but, if I understand correctly, concrete investigative actions and the involvement of the Hungarian authorities in the case. I cannot, of course, judge the content and depth of this case, but, if I may, Mr Attorney General, I will give this letter to your colleagues, and be kind enough to answer whether you have received this letter, you do not wish to answer it in substance; you have not received it, or there has been some misunderstanding. 'Cause I think that if that's what happened, then at least it deserves an investigation, it's the role of the D.A. in this. The case itself, in particular, I think it makes quite an interesting point, if the Russians somehow brought 85 thousand tons of diesel into Hungary through Ukraine. [[For signal:]] I see the colleagues are nodding. I'll give it to you, and then I'll be waiting for your answer in both cases. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zsolt Legény, I ask that you take a seat, because we now have a two-minute speech. Congressman László Teleki asked for the floor of your group. I'll give him the floor first, and then you'll be next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-30-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, has already mentioned what happened at the National Roma Municipality. I would also like to ask you with great respect that the investigation that you started last year, not only you, but others, should now have some tangible results. I do not urge it on my part because I think it is very important that I see Florian Wolf as a defendant, but because wherever I am in the country, it is that the Roma are stealing the money. Thus, literally, the Roma steal the money and therefore should not be given to them. So they can generate a process by not ending the case, that the current perception of Gypsy in Hungary is neither bright nor very rosy, and it will get worse. Of course, it is not your fault in the first place that this is happening, but you can greatly influence the fact that the matter that I have received a letter from the media has been brought to an end as soon as possible. Once again, this is important because it doesn't matter how the perception of Gypsy in Hungary will evolve, because even employment, education and other things are influenced by social perception. Therefore, if you like it, I know that there are a lot of high-profile issues, consider this also a priority case, so that the public can be reassured of both the Roma side and the non-Roma side, that this matter can be closed, in order to reassure the people in Hungary, so that it is not possible to see money when it is actually public money, to cover it up or to cover it up. Therefore, I think, in the name of the Gypsy in Hungary and on behalf of Hungary, I would like to ask that this matter be brought to an end as soon as possible, if I may ask, because that would reassure the public in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Member Zsolt Lény asked for the floor from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-93	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, My fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, has already said in his speech that the Hungarian Socialist Party, in connection with the 2016 report, thanks, of course, the entire prosecutor's organization for the sacrifice they have done, but I would like to add that, in particular, if you can put it this way, the prosecutors working at the end, indeed, the prosecutors who do the day-to-day work, slaving and the prosecutor's staff, have this praise, as this is a thank you, because you cannot speak with one voice about the prosecutor's organisation. There is a part, the larger part; on the previous item on the agenda, in relation to the report of the National Court of Justice, one of my Fidesz fellow Members and I have already been in a mathematical debate about the percentages, but I think that 99 percent of the prosecutor's office is doing its job exemplary and outstandingly. The result of their sacrifice is that, on the basis of which we can say that the figures in Mr. Attorney General's report, those positive figures in relation to law enforcement, are very exemplary and, of course, they should be thanked. However, there is another part of the prosecutor's office, and this is specifically the prosecutor's top management and some of the confidants who are a modern-day regent, XXI. The soft dictatorship of the century is not only its servers, but rather one of its pillars. For many years now, it has been a tendency to prosecute opposition prosecutors in conceptual litigation, and then we see that there is no need or number of acquittals in these cases. But there is another pillar of this method of operation, and this is that state corruption with mafia methods is facilitated by the prosecution. You're helping him by not doing anything. Against pro-government prominents, the only way the prosecution is going to be able to conduct the investigation out of consideration is if some of its conscientious detectives - in a quote sign - are able to go through the investigation, and let's just say that there is complete exposure, as in the Voldemort case, in which I think there is some dust in the machine, because, as I say, it's almost completely gone down, and the involvement of a Fidesz Member of Parliament is clearly apparent. I suppose there were consequences within the prosecutor's office as to how this could have gone so far, but we think that this would not be a unique case; this would be a number of other things, I might say, your partner... or in many other cases it could have been done in the same way. [[16.10]] And we also see, of course, from your point of view, that when it comes to opposition politicians, it should be possible to act, and then the investigation will take place with great force. And let me point out a very strange fact: when the involvement of opposition representatives may arise in any of the matters - or may arise - then I could virtually say that the whole prosecution phase, the entire investigative procedures - how to put it - is a completely open secret, in all kinds of press organisations, where we can encounter precise and credible wordings of protocols in government-to-government press organisations. And if we meet with a pro-government representative or a pro-government concern in a case, the prosecutor's office always claims that no information on pending criminal proceedings can be disclosed. Last time I came to you in the Czeglédy case, in the Csaba Czeglédy case, I came to you with an immediate question here in Parliament. Then you didn't answer, but your deputy, Assistant Attorney General Lajtár - I welcome him, of course - who then read to me the provisions of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, which we are aware of, but we do find it strange that, let's say, in the Czeglédy case, every investigative act could be read every day almost every minute. As I said, in cases involving a pro-government perpetrator or a party to the government, you always refer to the fact that the interests of the investigation do not allow information about an ongoing investigation. I think it's also a coincidence that they're always trying to get around the campaign in some way, a little bit, a little pissing off. Once again, we could shed some light on some very strange contexts here. Of course, I wouldn't say anything about the DA's office. I would say that he's not doing his job properly. We say, however, that they work hard enough for the government and the government party, Fidesz, and I think that this, we could say, is not right in a democracy or a rule of law. Unfortunately, it's been a long time since we've had the -- how should I put it? - we suspect that we are not living in a completely normal democracy here. And if you'll allow me to end up with a word, Mr President, about the fact that you can't go along with the fact that the Hungarian National Bank finds its public spending practice okay, you think it's legal and legal. I am not referring to the unusual lunch you have spent with the President of the Central Bank, but rather to the fact that, in these cases too, practically the whole Hungarian public sees that you feel that there have been very serious irregularities here. Nevertheless, the D.A.'s office is so concerned about this matter and thinks that everything here has been okay. I look forward to what the Attorney General will have to say in this case, because what he has said so far is unacceptable to us. So, with regard to its activities in 2016 and the prosecutor's report, I would like to say once again that there are several cases in which we see that serious problems can indeed be seen as being raised, and besides, I would like to say once again that, of course, thanks to the prosecutor's staff for their very, very, very, very sacrificeful and excellent work. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-11-30-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was also Mr Nándor Gúr, Member of the MSZP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-11-30-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General. My first sentence cannot speak of anything but what has been said several times by the Socialist Party politicians, but I wish to confirm it. In our view, the vast majority of prosecutors perform their statutory obligations fairly. The specified tasks shall be performed fairly. It has also been mentioned that, of course, we see that on top of it there are huge problems and huge problems: you have become the servers of a regnating dictatorship, which we believe is likely and confirmed by many. Yes, to its servers or pillared pillars, no matter how we put it, practically strong bastions. Many people in this country say, perhaps rightly so, that you turn a blind eye to state corruption by using mafia methods. By not interfering in something, even though they know it, they commit great sins. Not only if they do not comply with the way and how things need to be done, but also by not interfering. Of course, the situation is different, let us say, from the politicians in the opposition's ranks to the pro-government politicians. There are thousands of examples for this. Florian Farkas, mentioned by my fellow Member, is no longer here in the benches, but remember the program "bridge to the world of work," which, if I remember the numbers correctly, covered an order of 1600 million forints, and the way in which it was used could also be followed through many organs. Then we can continue, which again tried to put the existing problems in place with a government engagement of HUF 1300 million. I don't think that's right. I don't think that's right. I don't think it's right that you're ordering a news blackout on virtually every case in terms of Fidesz involvement. There is no leak, there is no service to pro-government propaganda; no, there is nothing like that. Of course, if one of the opposition politicians can be approached and touched, then this will immediately change fundamentally, and serving pro-government propaganda, I am not saying that it will happen through leaking, but practically before everything else. Here is the latest case, the ex-Prime Minister's wife learned the story later than - and probably the interrogation - the ministers of the pro-government propaganda machine. I don't think that's right. On the other hand, it is not right, as it has already been said, that you are very good at statistics, that is without a doubt, that we see everywhere, not just here, with regard to cases involving the prosecution. We see this in the world of work, in many other aspects as well. They are very good, because when it comes to the issue of indictment, a 0.2 per cent increase - I say, a 0.2 per cent increase - is shown by the Attorney General as a level of effectiveness, which is, of course, a success, a 0.2 per cent increase, as if a miracle had happened. Meanwhile, in parallel, let's say more than 3.8 percent increase in the number of registered crimes, which is more than 19 times the number of 0.2 percent - so just to make it clear and clear - and in this regard it is not so, because if we didn't count on this and that, and if... Mr. Attorney General, seriously, we have to do the attitude to statistics without actually having to reveal it, we wouldn't have to take it into account, and then there wouldn't be a crime? Or the fact that this is the case is that there have been 10,666 more crimes. More than 3.8 percent more than last year, from 2015 to 2016. [[16.20]] Yeah, that's 19 times more than the increase in the indictment rate. Isn't that the correct approach? So, I think that in the event that there is an extra difference compared to what had been done in the previous period, there is a eulogy about this; in the event that there has been a nearly 20-fold increase in registered crime from one year to another, the answer is that it should not have been taken into account in this way, because it concerns a specific range of Zalai crimes, and it should have been taken out of it, and then my fellow Member Gelencsér tries to explain this by confirming that if we had taken this off the list... it should not have been taken into account, should it not have been taken into account? So, you can think of each other as idiots here, and you can make a whole country look like they're not talking about reality, but does that make sense? Isn't a concrete factual confirmation worth doing? It is not worth doing this to reveal the specific situation, to look at the interventions that need to be taken in order to say, in the following year, from 2016 to 2017 or from 2017 to 2018 the increase in the number of registered offences does not mean a further increase, but a reduction trend? Shouldn't the action plans be implemented? Shouldn't the prevention toolbox be expanded to see what needs to be done in order to...? So, I think we should go in this direction. But to move in a slightly different direction - of course, in addition to this, I do not wish to miss the two ideas that I have heard little of the Attorney General here today on the pulpit about what they intend to do in order to prevent a leap of economic crime from one year to another or to prevent it later. You know, which has grown from one year to over 31,000. So not 10 percent, not 3.8 percent, not 0.2 percent, let me start from here, not 3.8 percent, not 10 percent, not doubled - multiplied. So, I think it's worth focusing on these cases. And if we want to focus on these cases, then the report should carry not only this type of statistical analysis, if that is what we should call it. But let's look at the specific cases a little bit. Public spending of the Hungarian National Bank: why does the Attorney General's Office, Péter Polt, find these stories in order? Why? How can he find it right? I have huge dilemmas about this, that what is going on in front of everyone in this country is what has appeared in terms of the funds and recapitalisations allocated to the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, if I remember correctly, over 260 billion, 260 thousand million forints of public money being discredited or attempted, or the issue of protocol manipulation would not have required to be dealt with in these cases? Or, to mention another example, has it already been said here by my fellow Members: shouldn't the Attorney General have taken some kind of action on the bald issues of the National Election Office? Or was it within the framework of the case of thousands of people in 2015, the ETUSZ - I'm sure the Attorney General remembers this story - that we should not have taken more effective action in these matters? Or the story about Pharaon's residence permit, while he was under international warrant, died as if he hadn't. So, these cases are all of the same in our conviction, and in politics, they lead to areas that some have been very intensely hindered from getting here, and we see that the Attorney General's Office was also a sufficient partner in this, which leads to the idea that the idea of serving the regnant dictatorship of our judgment, at least at the top of the Attorney General's Office, is an exception, if any, in this circle. The problem, Mr. Attorney General, is that the problem is the discovery or unexploration of cases, not me, not us, the whole country, the multitude of people who follow and think about events in this country, to which you do not want to answer, but you really want to cover up these stories in our opinion. Or I could say another thing that relates to the 2014 elections. You remember when a thousand speeches were made on the case of the fake parties by the representatives in the benches of the opposition parties, why it was not good, why measures should be taken in this regard - not the way in which the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, where appropriate, would have acted and should have walked in our view. But in order not to stay out of line, if I mention examples, the case of Azeri bribes, I don't even remember the magnitude, but the question of huge money, which gives a certain synchronization, or raises the possibility of, for example, releasing and extraditioning the Azerbaijani axe killer. In these matters, why don't they deepen, why don't they go on, why don't they want to clarify how stories develop? I think why not, I think: because there would be conclusions on the discovery of cases that would mark a serious stamp, these conclusions would, in practice, lead to, or approach, some of the actors of today's ruling parties, where appropriate, the leading actors of the ruling parties. So, the problem is that if, on one side, all means are taken against possible crime, it is okay to act against crime, but if there is a category of possibility, and this is not related to the ruling parties, but to opposition politicians, then you consider this to be factual, and in the other case it is possible to make the claim that if there is factuality, then you do not want to take action in those matters either. In addition to specific cases, there is still one thing I would like to draw your attention to, Mr Attorney General, let us say in relation to corruption: how the hell is it that, in the course of a few years, from 2014 to 2016, to 2017, Hungary is sinking from 47th to 57th in a global corruption ranking for countries in the world? How the hell is it that Hungary is now ranked 24-25 out of 28 for the EU-28? This is also a deteriorating trend, which is also known by the Attorney General, 24-25th, in a dead race with Romania. And how the hell is it that, with regard to matters that Tamás Harangozó talked about here in Parliament's walls, about the KSE in Kecskemét, or about the case of 8000 tons of diesel, there is no movement in these matters, at least according to our knowledge there is no movement, and, of course, there is no service to the pro-government propaganda machine? So it looks like these cases are being swept under the rug. Overall, my fundamental problem is that it is not the way I consider the system to work, and it is a huge problem. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-11-30-96	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. The final words of the report and the authors of the proposal for a decision will now take place. I respectfully ask Mr. Attorney General Péter Polt if he wishes to respond. [[For signal:]] Are you from up there or up here? Yeah, we'll just wait for him to come up to the stand. Mr. Attorney General, you have the floor. [[16.30]]
u2017-11-30-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you, Members, for your activity. I listened carefully to the views of all the speakers. Obviously, they were not of the same nature. They were of a professional nature, and I'll try to answer them. They were political in nature, and I cannot answer them by the power of the law, but I will point out that this is the reason for the failure to respond. If we go in order, I would just like to mention what Congressman Imre Vejkey said as Chairman of the Commission, it is clear that the Attorney General under the Fundamental Law - and this basic rule can be traced back to a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2004 - does not have political or professional responsibility for Parliament. I would like to highlight this particular political responsibility. So if anyone tries to enforce it, it goes against the Fundamental Law and the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you very much for the opinion of Mr István Vitányi. I would like to highlight one thing. The migration challenge referred to by him remains a major task for prosecutors' organisations in certain types of crime and should be prepared for this in the future. Here it is primarily trafficking in human beings, trafficking in human beings and terrorism-related crimes that will require a major task and serious efforts not only in the future, but also in other forecasts. Congressman Bárándy has made a number of statements which are of a political nature. [[Dr. Gergely Bá.: Absolutely!]] I cannot and do not wish to react to these. I'm glad you see decent prosecutors. I myself believe that the DA's office and all the prosecutor's staff are working honestly, fairly and at a high level. Mr. Bárándy said 99.9 percent. If we translate that into the language of numbers, two out of two thousand prosecutors are not working properly. That's not such a bad ratio. So... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was a little wrong about the ratio.]] Well, you have to count. The prosecutor's office is, by the way, carrying out its duties legally and in all respects in accordance with professional standards, I can say this with certainty. As a matter of fact, I don't know if you're lucky to make comparisons, and again, that's not my job, because it's also a political issue, but I can tell you from the history of the prosecution when György Marosán appeared at the main prosecutor's office's office's active sitting and presented decisive party directors there. I think it was a different era. [[Miklós Soltész: This is what you know.]] It's like comparing it to the prosecution's work in a state of law. As regards the answers to immediate questions, this is what we have to deal with, Congressman. In many cases, we have a problem with the content of the address indicated, and we would always like to answer the questioner's intention in an honest manner. It is not always possible to reveal this intention, but I will reveal a workshop secret. Every time we receive such a question, the heads of the departments will meet with the press department, and we will try to find out from the title, as well as from the former activities of the Member, from the statements he has made and from the reports he has published. In this case, he mentioned the question of Gyula Budai. This is what happened here, and this is how we were able to answer that question. For the record, I can even tell you that there are cases where we prepare multiple versions for the answer, and then we draw out the version that corresponds to the question that is spoken here. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I can accept that answer.]] There's nothing extraordinary about this. [[Miklós Soltész: You had time. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Be quiet! The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman has asked a lot of questions about specific matters. I was pleased to hear that you have already studied the written answers to the questions raised at the committee meeting. What I can tell you is that there are all the answers to which you have now returned again as a question. If there is one that has not yet been mentioned - I did not see it very much - then, of course, we will address it again in writing, whether or not it relates to the activity in 2016. The next point I wish to touch again is because it has a professional part. Congressman said history will judge. I understand this as a matter of fact, Mr President, since you specifically referred to the fact that we will not be talking about dogmatic and criminal matters at the time, my answer is that when we are working, it is and may be a matter of criminal law and dogmatism, because we are not looking at how history evaluates our activities in 50, 100 or 200 years' time, because it is not in the legislation that lays down our duties, but we are looking at what these laws contain and we are doing it fully, I think. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I said that in a different context.]] I have already addressed Mr Imre Vejkey's earlier speech. However, I would also like to thank him here for mentioning the high level of work. I'm sure everyone inside the D.A.'s office is working hard to reach that level. Mr Csaba Gyüre raised a legislative question, in the context of the Fundamental Law, that the prosecution and the Attorney General are the sole enforcers of the state's criminal law. I was happy to write that this is a high ball, and it can be struck, and before I could answer it, he quickly added that except for your spare private life, which is, let's face it, not a minor thing, since your spare private life is open to court in the vast majority of cases where the prosecutor does not press charges or the investigating authority rejects the complaint or terminates the proceedings. I would like to say that, if the victims live with their own private rights, they are inefficient in the same proportion as the prosecution's success in the case of a substitute for private property. [[16.40]] I think it speaks for itself, so it shows that in cases where the prosecutor doesn't press charges, the prosecution makes the right decision about 97 percent. If you do not make the right decision, there are also professional reasons and there can be no other reason. When an investigation is launched, it is not a matter of desire, and certainly not a question of political will, it is a question of the existence of legitimate preconditions. If we have the legal prerequisites, we'll start an investigation in any case. I think that is true in practice, not only in theory. Several speakers highlighted and stressed the role of the world leader in corruption. I would like to reiterate, however, that has been mentioned several times, that certain conceptual matters should be clarified here. This is not a criminal list, it is not a list of crimes, but a completely different list of cases of corruption as a result of a survey of its social context and reality, rather than a list of how many crimes have been committed or committed in that country. Because, for example, the method of surveying this is feeling, corporate leaders are asked how they feel about the corrupt relationships in their own environment. I think that comparing this type of list with a crime number, with reconnaissance rates, is impossible. These are two completely different things, and the comparison of this would lead to completely impossible results. That is why there is a sentence or paragraph in the written account that the sense of corruption does not cover the real situation, so it is about other things. On the other hand, we can only deal with the part of the crime, and not how someone judges the state of public procurement or its transparency. It's not our job or our responsibility. Similarly, the deterioration of the corruption situation is not consistent with the deterioration of the criminal situation. Drug abuse: I cannot support what Congressman has said. Of course, we are basically working on statistics, and these statistics do not support what the Member said. It's possible, it's always the case that there's a hidden part of drug crime, and there's definitely a part of it. There are debates on the scale of this. However, I do not think that the situation will deteriorate, and I believe that this is not necessarily the case even for undetected crimes. There are problems in this area, as there are newer and newer drugs, because with a very small change, the former drugs are suddenly removed from the list, which, by the way, is a drug, and for some time they may appear in the market, if not legally, but not necessarily persecuted by criminal law, but the legislator is constantly trying to follow these changes - these are technical changes - and the application of the law is this legislative change. By the way, the drug problem is a serious problem, so I'm not saying that it's not a serious problem, I'm just saying that I don't see the dramatic deterioration of the situation, but I'm also signing that we need to act against it and by any means available. With regard to the repression of economic crimes, the reconnaissance activity in this area, I am sure that we must also use very innovative instruments here. Cybercrime gives economic crime new opportunities as a criminological concept. On the other hand, we must set up new instruments. I feel that this is in the process and that, moreover, we need to make better use of instruments that have been used before, such as asset research and concealed assets. I think the new criminal law will provide a better basis for prosecuting this type of crime. I'll talk about this later, about economic crimes. As regards the question of the European Prosecutor's Office or the Prosecutor's Office: I have been dealing with this issue a long time ago, which was also part of the subject of my habilitation. I can say that I may have been able to connect the scientific and practical part of it, because not only did I give a presentation about it in Shanghai, but I also made proposals in the European Union which were then supported at least partially by the Visegrád Four and which was a sort of alternative for the European prosecutor and, to some extent, can be applied now in connection with the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I believe that, as regards the professional part of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and its accession, there is indeed a question of added value and the issue of subsidiarity. I now deal with constitutional issues, because it is of a political nature, and I do not deal with it; it is of a political nature that it is, of course, manifested in legislation. My belief is that the goal is noble and correct. In the current context, efficiency is questionable. We will see how the European Prosecutor will operate in the first time, and then it can be considered again whether there really is any added value, or if there is still work to do so. In the meantime, the reason we are not in bad company is because we are not only in Poland, but also, for example, Denmark or the Netherlands, who are highly developed economies, and I do not think anyone would question their existence as a rule of law. The vacant posts: indeed, this is a constantly moving number, and gives us a certain minimum margin of manoeuvre, as well as a change in tasks that can be changed. So a prosecutor's post can be converted into two subconscious posts or three or four author's posts, because there's a certain amount of money behind it. We use this opportunity, and continue to fill the posts according to the type of tasks that are created in the organization. In addition, we strive, and it is also observed year after year, that fewer and fewer such posts are unexploited, so these posts are used by the prosecutor's organisation. [[16.50]] The various Roma self-government and other cases, known as criminal cases: there are several such criminal proceedings, the Bridge to the world of work, and other criminal proceedings. These are being conducted by the various investigating authorities under the authority of the D.A.'s office. I think that sooner or later these will have results; I will also say this to Congressman Teleki. Not all of them are very simple, but I have to add this. Yes, the Attorney General has the possibility of ex post standard control. That's what we're trying to take advantage of, but only on serious matters. These include, for example, the Attorney General's Action on Nbtv. I think that this is a right and a good instrument, and we are also going to the Constitutional Court on really important issues. Congressman Hadházy won't deny himself, if I remember correctly, he wasn't here last year when I answered, but if so, I apologize. Most of the time, I can't reflect on what he said. You can, of course, make a political opinion. I refuse to allow anyone to act contrary to his oath as a prosecutor to act in violation of the law. I reject this on my behalf and on behalf of all prosecutors. I think it was a perfectly legitimate suggestion that if he knew something like that, he would tell me and tell me what he was basing it on, because in general it could be stated, but in law, and lawyers might be able to confirm that there are no generalities, but there are only always specifics, on which any decision can be based. He has raised the Roma issues, and my answer is the same as it has already been said. As far as subway matters are concerned, I think that the prosecution deserves all the praise in this case, that the cases are really old, that there really is a very serious job behind the fact that there have already been more suspicions in the Alstom case. As a matter of fact, if the work of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is criticized, the work of the SFO, the English Anti-Corruption Agency, which conducts a longer-term procedure than the Hungarian, but if they put us to the same level as the SFO, it will fill me with perfect satisfaction. That's how I got that review. By the way, it is typical that Mr President said that we needed OLAF's data here too, even though it works with a much smaller apparatus. If you look at OLAF's metro report, you can see that OLAF used our data and incorporated it in its report. So it's the opposite, as the congressman said. Otherwise, it would have been enough to look at the report itself and to monitor the prosecution's activities a little more carefully. Congressman Nándor Gúr: Public Prosecutor's Office in statistics, good, female or reduced crime. I think that the report correctly contains the number of crimes committed in 2016 and correctly includes the fact that there is a piece of action that consists of part-actions, about 20 thousand partial actions, and that is what increases all the number of crimes. If we draw this off, we'll keep the trend I've been talking about. There's no fairer way to say this. If Congressman Nándor Gúr doesn't want to draw it off, it stays there, and this is how it can be understood. He's talking about the list of corruption. I think I've already answered that. A distinction should be made between the category of crime and the social concept of corruption in general. Attila Gelencsér partially answered the statistical questions. I was glad to see you'd made a special reference to the acceleration. Mr Bellman raised two specific issues. I'm sorry you weren't at the committee meeting, because if you were there, you would have had the answer. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You are not a member of the committee.]] Perhaps you could have asked Congressman Barándy to convey his suggestion, and then we would have been able to answer it. But I was surprised to hear that because we don't keep track of these statistics. I have already said this to the committee before Congressman Hadházy; he has resented this now. We don't keep track of the political views of those who committed the crime. I think that this is in line with the Fundamental Law and other legislation. Here I have heard from Congressman Bellozó that there is already a politician in the case of the KSE in Kecskemét before the court. And as for the missing cases... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Glad I could help.]] - from that point of view, frankly, it doesn't help me, it doesn't help me, because the prosecution has prepared the indictment regardless of the political position of someone. That's why I said that, but in the previous one, I've heard that there's no politician involved at all in any case. As far as the other matter is concerned, I have nothing to say about it yet, and we will reply in writing. I have already tried to answer Mr Teleki about the Roma municipality and other relevant matters. We're trying to speed up procedures. Congressman Zsolt Legány didn't say much. I would like to note, however, that when you talk about conceptual matters, which ended up with acquittals, I do not understand what you mean by that. But it would be nice to have one thing to look at before saying such things, what the course of such a case is, how and why acquittals are born, and whether or not they are issued in the process of reprimanding sentences, or if there is an acquittal, then why it is done, in the absence of a crime or evidence. I think that this is not incidental, and the data obtained here in itself would deny this particular conceptual statement. As for the leaks, the old problem is where data comes from, when data comes out. We have carried out several investigations on this, and I think that basically data will come out when, in addition to the authorities, other data are acquired. That's our experience. Here, of course, it is the other persons who are involved in criminal proceedings in some capacity. The D.A.'s office doesn't see any data coming out of our investigation. Several people mentioned specific matters as to why the decision was so or so. Because during the course of the proceedings, the facts pointed in this direction. I do not think that we should argue here in Parliament on specific matters about the evidence on which a criminal prosecution, its termination or prosecution is based. This is a professional issue that I think the authorities should decide. [[17.00]] Mr Nándor Gúr criticised the increase in the results of the prosecution. I told you myself, I don't attribute such a very important role to prosecution. I think 0.2 percent was just a sign. Thank you very much for your comments, thank you for your attention. Overall, I was under the impression that Parliament acknowledged the prosecution's work on behalf of the rule of law, and I thank everyone for that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-30-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-99	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Unfortunately, with regard to the final debate, I am obliged to make a similar conclusion to what I already made in the OBH President's report, that my opposition fellow Members talked about a lot during the debate, but not just what was contained in the 2016 report. I can only conclude from this that, in fact, the opposition factions agree professionally with the report of the Attorney General's Office in 2016, but did not do so verbally in order to obtain perceived political advantages. I ask you to judge the report professionally, and when it comes to the vote, accept it, as Fidesz and KDNP will do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-30-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. I would like to thank Mr Péter Polt for his active participation in the debate, thank you, Ervin Belovics and István Lajtár, Deputy Attorney General, and their colleagues, for having honoured the debate with their personal presence. We'll get back to work. Following is the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. T/18296 submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. Report No 1 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate János Fuzik, the author of the item on the agenda, who will tell his expoze from here, from the platform, and, naturally, in accordance with our custom, he will speak in his mother tongue, and he will be able to report accordingly. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie, národnostní hovorcovia! Vážený pán štátny tajomník! Vo svojom materinskom slovenskom jazyku Vás pozdravujem v mene parlamentného Výboru pre národnosti v Ma.arsku. My, národnostní hovorcovia sa mimoriadne tešíme tomu, že po dvojročnej práci parlament dnes prerokuje náš návrh na novelu národnostného zákona a dúfame, že v tomto jesennom rokovacom období ho aj prijme. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Nationalist Spokespersons! Dear Secretary of State, I welcome you in my Slovak mother tongue on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. We, ethnic advocates, all sincerely welcome the fact that, following two years of our work, the Parliament is today discussing our own amendment to the National Rights Act and we trust that it will accept it even during the autumn session. Next year we will commemorate the first comprehensive national legislation of Hungary after the change of regime, the LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. The 25th anniversary of the birth of a law. This standard text, created by broad social preparation and consensus, laid the new foundations for domestic ethnicity policy. He defined the concept of nationalities, national and ethnic minorities, and named 13 ethnic communities in Hungary, which he declared to be state-creating factors. It guaranteed individual and community nationality rights, the possibility of building cultural autonomy, and as its main depositary the establishment of a system of national self-governments. It has also created an institutional background to support the very new and positive processes by establishing an independent nationality office, a minority ombudsman and a public foundation to fund tasks. Of course, life and practical application have also shaped the nationality law. The first major amendment took place 12 years later, in 2005, and after another 6 years, a new CLXXIX 2011 on the rights of nationalities was born in its name. Law. This legislation is still in force today, and the Parliament's Committee of Nationalities in Hungary has tabled an independent motion to amend it. Members of our committee are well aware of the nationality law, because before their election as parliamentary spokespersons they worked as national minority self-government presidents or vice-chairmen, so they had to have daily readings and manuals. From this, when we became parliamentary spokespersons in spring 2014 and our committee was formed at the end of May, we immediately submitted a separate Commission motion to amend the laws on the rights of nationalities and on the electoral procedure. Our proposals served to improve the elections of the Autumn minority self-government, and with today's eyes, with our experience, it seems almost incredible that we, then parliamentary rookies, managed to do so in a month's time, away from the house rules. Of course, with the strong professional support of the Parliamentary Office and the political consensus of the parliamentary factions. As I have already said, our first successful Commission proposal to amend the national minority law concerned only certain paragraphs relating to the election of national authorities. At the same time, we were also aware of the need to review the provisions of this extraordinary wide-ranging legislation governing the educational and cultural area, the functioning of national authorities, property and financing issues. This was also encouraged by the comments and suggestions received from our national minority self-governments and their advocacy associations. As time passed, it was not possible to fail to see that the nationality law is no longer always in line with the changed circumstances in our society and in the area of nationality. In the first instance, perhaps it is enough to mention the reforms carried out in the country's public education system, in school maintenance. [[17.10]] I mentioned only the previous example, because before I turn to the presentation of our concrete legislative proposals, I would also like to say a few words about the method of our work, because it was not just any task, perhaps the biggest undertaking and the enterprise of our committee's history; not only because it covered almost half of our parliamentary term, almost two years, but also because it had been an extraordinary experience. For example, we had to realize relatively quickly that, driven by necessity and needs, we may have wanted too much of this law to be amended, as I have already said, from a very wide range of laws. Then, following the various municipal and provocative goals of nationality, it was difficult to give up some of our not-so-designed or professionally-supported ideas. Nor did the fact that we did not actually have a vision of Parliament in this work have made it easier for us, because it is not really the practice of the other parliamentary committees and it is certainly not the task of drawing up and submitting such legislative proposals. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is also in a particular situation in this regard, as at present only our committee can initiate law on behalf of nationalities. At the same time, as chairman of the committee, I am proud to tell you that we have overcome these difficulties. We have withdrawn our first bill of amendment, which promises to fail in May this year. We have had further discussions with the specialists and offices involved in the previous work, as a result of which, at our meeting on 10 October, we have already approved a clear, professionally supported bill and then submitted it to the Parliament. Since the ongoing discussions have played a great role in the fact that, to our greatest pleasure, this House is conducting the general debate of our Commission's own motion today, in an unusual way, but not without any purpose, even before the presentation of our bill, I would like to thank all those who supported our work professionally, especially the two departments of the Ministry of Human Resources who oversee the area of nationality, the State Secretary for Church, Nationality and Civil Society Relations and the State Secretary Miklós Soltész, who is also present at our plenary session, and the State Secretary for Public Education of the EMMI, which was a very reliable helper in educational matters. He also thanked the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of National Development, the Ministry of National Economy, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the National Election Office, the Codification Department of the Office of Parliament, and the former President of the Legislative Committee of Parliament, Member Gergely Gulyás and colleagues. After two years of working together, I did not spare a few minutes on this list to show that our Commission amendment had indeed had a serious professional background and that we had succeeded in bringing it together. Thus, we had the opportunity to propose to address certain shortcomings in content and form of the national rights law. In the interpretation of the legislation, we clarified the definition of the minority association and extended the scope of the national minority civil society organisations covered by the law to include the foundations set up for the purpose of nationality, in line with the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. Law. We have also noticed that the current nationality law is only the 16th. In its section, use the different versions of the term "nationality" on three occasions. In the previous chapter, where the basic rights of nationalities are covered by the legislation, it speaks of the mother tongue, the language of a nationality or the mother tongue of nationality in the list of language rights. Therefore, at the stage in question, we propose that the person belonging to the nationality may have his or her first name registered, not according to his or her nationality language, but according to the rules of his or her nationality, and that he or she should also be included in his or her identity card, since the mother tongue of the vast majority of Hungarian ethnicities is not a nationality language, but the national language of their mother countries. The current nationality law also refers to the parliamentary presence of nationalities in relation to the use of languages, and in only one case, Article 5. Paragraph 3 of this Article. Our Commission considers it important to introduce the concept of the representative of nationality, the representative of nationality and the committee representing nationalities into the law on the rights of nationalities, in accordance with the National Assembly Act. The new IV/A. Chapter 1 contains provisions on the participation of Hungarian nationalities guaranteed by the Fundamental Law in the work of the National Assembly, as well as on the cooperation between the national representative and the national minority advocate and the national minority self-government. The amendment also reflects the legislative changes introduced in the national and ethnic public education systems in the nationality law. The clarification of the different forms of education and education of nationalities is in line with the 17/2013. With nationality directives issued in EMMI Regulation No 1. The National Public Education Act, which has been amended in the meantime, regulates in detail the conditions for organising supplementary national education. This possibility is also intended to be extended to the competent regional and municipal self-governments in the event that the national body of the national minority does not undertake to do so. As a result of the reform of the national public education system, in addition to national national minority authorities, local authorities have also appeared as institutional supporters, which sometimes maintain much more ethnic schools and kindergartens than national bodies. The transferors of the maintenance rights of the institutions are not only the municipal authorities, as provided for in the current law, when the schools were transferred, the public institution maintainer appeared. The legislative amendment proposal follows this process with provisions extending its scope. According to one of these, municipal ethnic authorities, like national bodies, may also exercise the right to maintain public education institutions where not only all children and students are involved in ethnic education or education, but 75 percent of children or pupils are sufficient to do so. It is also a new requirement that, in this case, in addition to institutional organisations, the competent local government of nationality should be consulted. The bill seeks to grant the national minority self-government a right of trust to movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the task, as is currently the case with the state institution maintainer. Based on our practical experience, it is necessary to introduce a transitional provision for cases where the transfer of maintenance law under the National Rights Act took place up to 10-15 years before the entry into force of this amendment. [[17.20]] In this case, according to the bill, the free use agreement previously concluded will be terminated and the local government which granted the maintenance right will be obliged to conclude a property management contract with the national government exercising the maintenance right to the movable and immovable property associated with the performance of the public education task, no later than 6 months after the amendment of the law. If the right of the maintenance of the nationality cultural institution was taken over, the receiving nationality authority would similarly be entitled to the right of trustee of movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the task. I would like to turn to another chapter on our proposals on the functioning, election and funding of the national authorities in our Commission's legislative motion. Of course, in this area, we have relied on the comments of the Association of National National Self-Governments, in addition to our own experience. On this basis, we recommend, like local national authorities, that the mandatory public tasks of national bodies be named in the law. Their lack has so far caused a number of administrative and funding problems for national bodies. When reviewing the rules on conflicts of interest, we sought to harmonise the various posts by law, e.g. excluding from the list a notary title that was no longer included in the administrative system. However, it is much more important for our national governments and representatives to remove the restriction that a candidate for nationality may be a representative or an official at a maximum of two levels of minority self-government. It is proposed to restore the previous practice that allowed all three levels. In the case of the provisions on the appointment of the national minority self-governments, we would eliminate the duplication of legislation. We would also clarify the implementation of the tendering process and the requirements for the Registrar's qualifications. In settlements where the number of voters in the national minority register is at least 100 on the day the elections are set, we propose to increase the number of representatives of local minority self-governments to the previous 5 instead of the current 4 seats. The amendment is justified by a number of negative experiences and the need for a safer functioning of the body. In order to reduce the problems identified in several reports of the State Court of Auditors, which arise in cooperation between local authorities and local self-governments, it is proposed to double the number of rooms to be provided free of charge at the local self-government's headquarters, to increase the number of hours to 32 hours per month, and to name the reporting and internal control tasks of the local government. On the basis of the professional guidelines of the Ministry of National Economy, we recommend leaving the concept of the "work-financing system" for the municipalities of nationality. In line with the financial legislation, we introduce the concept of the budget contribution, instead of the "normative contribution" among the institutional managers. As the tasks of the national authorities have increased greatly with the willingness to maintain institutions, our legislative proposal proposes to increase the fees of the President of the local minority self-government and the Vice-President of the national body, as well as the salary of the President of the national self-government. This is, of course, the 109th Amendment to the National Rights Act that remains in force. According to Paragraph 1 (1) of the Article, it may do so at the expense of the budget of the national minority self-government, without endangering the provision of the national minority public service. The legislative proposal of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary aims to amend 30 sections of about 170 sections of the Act on the Rights of Nationalities. As I pointed out in the first part of my speech, during the conciliation process, we had to give up some of our ideas, which are waiting for further reflection and development. Some wallets have also pointed out, in their correct comments, the legislative sections which our committee has not opened but should be dealt with in the future. So there is plenty to be done, but we believe that the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, together with its partners and professional supporters, has put a legislative amendment proposal on the table of this House that can make our 25-year-old nationality law more effective and modern, and make the aspirations of our nationalities and the functioning of their local governments more effective. In our conviction, I ask for the support of the Honourable Parliament and the adoption of our bill. Thank you very much for your attention. .akujem za posornosť.
u2017-11-30-102	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker, President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-30-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Parliament adopted the Fundamental Law of Hungary on 18 April 2011. In both the preamble, the National Creed and the text of the Fundamental Law, the nationalities living in Hungary are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors. The state undertakes to protect and cultivate the language and culture of nationalities. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law According to Article 4 of the Act, any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-religion and preservation; nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and to use their own names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach their mother tongue. Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments. Furthermore, detailed rules on the rights of nationalities and the rules for the election of their local and national self-governments are laid down by a fundamental law. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities presented to you by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Amendment of Law and the bill of Fundamental Law XXIX. The EESC wishes to clarify the changes in the lives of nationalities in some areas, in compliance with the obligation referred to in Article 4 of the Treaty. Its aim is to strengthen the system of instruments necessary for the exercise of nationality rights. Dear Parliament, I would also like to thank the ethnic advocates for their very active work, as they have been doing their work since 2014, and since then their many amendments and proposals show their commitment to their nationality community and our common country. It is the result of an outstanding cooperation between government and nationalities in our history that today it is very good to be a nationality in Hungary. We can see this most prominently from the indicators of population numbers. [[17 .30]] Data from the 2011 census show that over the years, the number and proportion of those who confess their ethnic identity have increased. According to these figures, 6.4 percent of the country's population, a total of 644 524 persons, i.e. they belonged to one of the nationalities in 2011. While Hungary's population decreased by almost 2.7 percent between 2001 and 11, the number of people belonging to the national minority increased by almost 40 percent. In support of the increased number of people and the resulting demands, the government has increased the amount of national minority appropriations, planning together with national minority advocates and national presidents and presidencies, making it HUF 8.7 billion this year. The 2018 budget already envisages nearly HUF 10.4 billion in national minority funding, which represents a 20% increase compared to this year's funds, but if you look at the 2010s, compared to 2010, this is a three-fold increase in the then budget. Thanks to the provisions of the National Rights Act, the institutional circle showing the cultural autonomy of individual communities is constantly expanding - how good it would be for this to happen in another country! - the adoption of ethnic public education institutions, including on a large scale. The number of institutions maintained by local and national minority self-governments has increased to 82 for the current academic year. The direct consequence of such a high level of activity is a periodic review and change of the relevant legislation, as Mr President said. The amendments tabled by the advocates now propose clarification of the national and public education laws and the adjustments that have been made in the meantime. Dear Parliament, Dear Speakers, In the spirit of harmonisation with the national public education law, the bill will extend the content of the maintenance rights of national minority institutions by granting the national minority self-government the right of trust, like the public institutions, of movable and immovable property for the purpose of carrying out the task. As a result of the practice of the transfer and take-over of institutions, the same right also applies to national cultural institutions in addition to public education institutions. In the event of receipt of the right of maintenance of a nationality cultural institution, the receiving national government shall also be entitled to the right of movable and immovable property management for the purpose of carrying out the task. The second major step is that because of the frequency of the institutionalisation of municipal self-governments, they can, like national bodies, assume the right to maintain a public education institution where not only all children and students participate in national education or education, but at least 75 percent of it is sufficient to do so, and the possibility to organise supplementary national education and education is extended to regional or local minority self-governments under certain conditions. The third major step: the nationality law declares the rules for the election of minority self-government bodies and representatives. At present, four representatives can be elected at municipal level, but in several cases the practice has shown that the number of even Members has sometimes or often hindered the body's decision-making mechanism, and it has therefore been justified to modify and increase the number of Members to an unparalleled number. The fourth step: in accordance with the Parliamentary Act, the amendment would standardise possible forms of the presence of national minorities in parliament, and the nationalist considers it important to introduce the concept and cooperation procedures of the national minority representative, the national minority advocate and the national minority representative committee into the national minority law. The next step is to increase the number of hours per month to be provided free of charge at the seat of the local government, from 16 to 32 hours, and to specify the reporting and internal control tasks, in order to ensure that the mandatory public tasks of the local self-government are performed more effectively. The next decision is important, as is the proposal. The amendment also covers the increase in fees. The possible ceiling for the fee of the president of the local and regional minority self-government will be increased by 100 percent and 50 percent respectively if the body maintains a public education institution. The amount of benefits in kind that can be granted is uniformly increased to the salary base under the Public Service Officers Act. The following is an important proposal: in view of the central role of national minority authorities, in order to ensure the performance of their tasks, and in line with the statutory nature of the mandatory tasks of local authorities, there is certainly progress if the tasks listed are to be carried out in a mandatory manner. This includes the definition of the qualification requirements for the appointment of the Registrars of the national minority self-government, as they are the main actors in the smooth performance and administration of tasks of national importance in matters of nationality. Although it does not belong to the bill we are discussing here, it is good to hear it, but it is good to hear it, and it is good to repeat it several times, that the minority allowance will rise from 10% to 15 percent as set out in the law. Dear Speakers, Honourable Members, Mr President, As explained above, the proposal of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary simplifies and clarifies, strengthens and expands the system of tools for the exercise of national minority rights in the local and national municipal bodies, as well as in the area of self-government of national education and the capacity of the national minority self-government to assert their interests. The proposed legislative amendment is therefore agreed by the government and supports its adoption, and asks for this from every faction of the Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you very much for your presentation. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the spokespersons.]]
u2017-11-30-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Duna. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-30-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Parliament, The primary aim of the proposal to amend the National Rights Act is to establish a wider set of legislation that takes into account the proposals of national interest organisations and is consistent with daily practice. The Fidesz Group agrees with these objectives, and on this basis we support the adoption of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2011, the legislative environment and practical implementation of domestic nationality policy have changed greatly and positively. In addition to the national minority authorities, the primary depositaries of national cultural autonomy, the transformation of the public education system, the local and local minority self-governments have also appeared as minority kindergarten and school managers. [[17.40]] The current national public education law establishes the conditions for organising supplementary national education, the possibility of which is to be extended to the competent local self-governments in the event that their national body does not undertake to do so. The amendment would also allow local minority self-governments to take over the maintenance of public education institutions in which not all students but at least 75 per cent of pupils participate in ethnic education and education. In such cases, the receiving national government shall be entitled to the right of trustee of movable and immovable property for the provision of tasks. The same entitlement would also apply to the maintainer if the cultural institutions were taken over. It is a common problem in the daily operation of national minority self-governments that the current legislation does not mention the mandatory tasks to be performed. This amendment is 17. § 2 of the Act also addresses this deficiency. The law on the rights of nationalities includes the rules for the election of minority self-government bodies and representatives, according to which a candidate can take up office in only two of the three levels of self-government. This regulation has limited the effective, rational functioning of the national minority representation, and this amendment therefore proposes to repeal that provision. The intention of change to increase the number of representatives of national minority self-governments from four to five, where the number of voters in the national minority register is at least 100, aims to strengthen the security of the operation of national minority bodies. We believe it is important that there is a proper harmony between our legislation in force, both from a linguistic point of view and from a legal point of view. For this purpose, the proposal introduces into the law the concept of a minority advocate, a representative of nationality and a committee representing nationalities. In addition, the institutions which have such a representational function are all regulated in the Act on Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! In 2010, the Government of Hungary announced as a principle that it would be much closer to the nationalities. We can now say that there is a high level of support for national identity and language protection programmes and a stronger link between nationalities and their mother countries. As a result, I hope that our country is also increasingly appreciated in the mother countries of nationalities. In 2010 we spent 3 billion forints from the central budget to support nationalities, which will increase to more than 10 billion forints next year. Thus, the governing parties have increased the level of support more than three times in eight years. The above-mentioned figures also illustrate the fact that the government and the Fidesz Group are committed to treating nationalities as prime partners in the administration of state affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill facilitates the exercise of the fundamental rights of nationalities by addressing practical issues that have been raised since the adoption of the law on the rights of nationalities. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group fully supports the proposed bill and proposes its adoption to this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Teleki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Speakers, I think that this draft law says a lot about how much the advocates have really worked in order to be able to debate and talk about this draft law now, because it is really worth the majority of nationalities to experience the amendments they have initiated, and I think that it is only thanks for their work. I, of course, miss Florian Farkas - who is a prime minister's agent or I don't know what position he has in addition to his parliamentary work - who should be sitting here, Mr. Secretary of State, because I think that at the hearing of such a law, the person who is entrusted with the work of representing the highest nationality in nationalities, the Roma nationality, cannot be present on such a meeting day. So it offends me, as a Member and, by the way, as a Roma man, a voter, that he is not here and does not express his opinion on what he will say about this bill that has been tabled. But I'm sure you've put a lot of work into it, and it'll give you a chance to see his hand, but I'd like to point out that you can't do it on Flória Farkas that she's not here. Of course, Felix Farkas is not present, but I think that his work may indeed be seen in the lines that the committee has put together. About the draft law itself, I think it would be very difficult to argue, of course there are points, and Mr János Fuzik also explained that this amendment could not now be submitted with the need for completeness, but I think it is important. What I'm still missing is ownership. Let us be honest with you that many local governments do not even provide room for minority self-governments in many cases, but especially for Roma minority self-governments. Therefore, it should be considered how to achieve that the law that is currently in place - which should provide the place for meetings - could move towards ownership in order, if not elsewhere, only in cities with county rights or above a certain number of persons, would be important in order to give these national governments access to property, to a building where they can live a community life. Because I hope you know that if, let's say, a local government hands over a building free of charge, say, to a national government, it still has a tax charge. It's tax-paying, you have to pay it every month, and that's no small amount of money. From here on, the room is not fully secured free of charge. It is in the event that the local government's premises are tried to pass on to a certain 4-5-6 or more hours, but I do not think that this will solve the problem of developing language skills. This is about ethnic languages, or it is about culture, and it should be provided with a separate room that can definitely produce results. So I think that he has moved in an important direction, but I am greatly missing this one thing, how it could be achieved - and I think it will be possible to talk about it later - to try to give ownership to municipal authorities or buildings in the state system that are not being used or are being used, it is possible to regroup, which could help the work of nationalities. This is not the same as taking over a kindergarten or school in public education, because it is a specific institution, and I think it is absolutely good what is in the draft law, because it can only be supported, and there is nothing to say negative about it, because more and more people - and unfortunately not within Roma bers - are taking over kindergartens and schools, so more and more people are dealing with public education, which is a good thing, because this is how ethnic identity can be strengthened, if there is even a minority language in the institutions. I therefore consider this chapter to be very important, and I think it should be very much supported. In the case of national minority self-governments, having five members, I think it is also very important, because it was very difficult to see this issue when the four-member body was adopted in the past period, and I have repeatedly indicated at several levels that this cannot be done, because if there is the same voting rate, it is very difficult to deal with this issue, and the replacement has been much more difficult to deal with in the past period, so I am particularly pleased about this. It makes me wonder, however, that representatives should be present at local, national and regional levels at all three levels in the local, national and regional authorities, because this draft law is about the possibility of one representative at each level. I will be convinced by the minority advocates that this is really necessary, because I think that whoever is active in the national self-government should not be very active, let us say, in a local minority self-government or in a regional government, but this is my practical experience that this would not be a good direction. If you can convince me, I'm willing to move in that direction so that I can accept that as well. [[17.50]] Once again, I thought it was good when the Fidesz government introduced it so that there would be no overlap at different levels, and now we're bringing back that bad practice, because it's bad practice for me to sit on the three levels, i.e. at local, regional and national levels, one person can sit in each one of them, the same person. I'm not sure I think this is right, so I'm asking the advocates to convince me that this will be good in the next period. I have read the law, and I will read the draft once again, but I hope that it is not hidden in it - and this will be confirmed by the majority of the advocates - that there may be a President of the national self-government and a Member of Parliament, because there is no way we can support it. We can't bring back a task that isn't about that. Once again, I didn't see that in the lines, but I'd like to know if it's hidden somewhere. We cannot support this, I would like to point out, because the President of the national government should be an independent, autonomous person, which has happened only in our time since the change of regime, and the Member of Parliament, who is also a politician and a member of a party, should do that work. If there were overlaps between the two, I wouldn't consider it a good thing, so I would ask you to confirm that this is not the case. I am happy to support the funding of minority self-governments, because it is indeed possible to see that they are very under-designed. Once again, I have a big problem with the fact that Roma ethnic authorities cannot take over public education institutions, neither kindergartens nor schools very much. So the wages there will really stagnate, if I understand correctly, because they will only rise where they take over public education institutions, which I think is good, I add, so it is very important that if someone takes over a public education institution, the remuneration for them should be decisive. So I think this is good, but once again, it does not appear with the Roma, because there is not much they can take over. Culture and language; it is also necessary to do everything possible to cultivate culture. The Secretary of State mentioned in his statement how important culture is. I think it is important, too, but you know, again I say that the Roma are still not satisfied with the desire, Mr Secretary of State, to set up centres such as the display of community spaces. There was a time of community housing system. This system of community houses no longer exists, it does not work, and so it is difficult for many people to spread and maintain culture, because in various cultural centres and other places where these programmes could be brought in, they can be paid for, and very often they cannot provide space. So we have the legislation itself, but we cannot always solve the task. Therefore, I think, Mr State Secretary, that the government should repay its old debt so that the opening of the cultural centre in Budapest can now be announced. Also, in cities with bigger county rights, I think that you should be able to create and operate cultural centres, because otherwise, Roma culture will certainly be lost, and the language that we care for will be lost if there are no such communal spaces. Therefore, the government will have to think about this as well. Overall and in summary, we can see a very important draft law within Parliament's walls, and I think that within the faction we will develop the resolutions that will be necessary to make a wise decision, but once again I would like to express my concern that I would like to ask that the advocate, on one or two points that I have outlined, should reassure me that they will be all right. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-11-30-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the KDNP Group is Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-30-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationality Spokespersons! Dear Parliament, The Christian Democratic People's Party has always followed very closely and not only accompanied it, but also actively and supportively observed the laws and realities that affected the fate of Hungarian ethnicities, people and communities, as well as the fate of Hungarians stranded outside our borders, since these two have always been parallel and adjustable, as many speakers have said before me. Therefore, the Christian Democrats have now observed the fate of this law, and we are pleased that, a few days before the advent starts, the Hungarian Parliament can negotiate such an important law, the actuality of which, as we have heard in President Fuzik's introduction, is to be sought and found, on the one hand, that our law on nationalities is 25 years old, which, like all laws, since Parliaments have formed laws, of course, needs to be corrected and adjusted from time to time, that is the case now. But it is also topical to this law and to the negotiation of the law that, in recent years, it has seemed to have strengthened nationalities in international European organisations, as they say, thinking about national minorities, such as the Council of Europe, the OECD, and many other organisations, could be mentioned. Unfortunately, we have not yet come to the point where the European Union is raising the fate of some 70 million people living in Europe belonging to a national minority to form legislation, but this initiative, which was launched by the FUEN and which, thanks to you, has been negotiated and unanimously supported by the Parliament in recent weeks, offers good hope. If the peoples of Europe so wish, then there will also be a European regulation that will further improve the situation of minorities where this needs to be improved. In Hungary, this may be less worthwhile or less real than in other countries, but now let's talk about the situation at home. And if we look back for a thousand years, we can see that, throughout Hungarian history, all the rulers and state leaders who have thought in perspective have always listened to the invited nationalities. We are all well aware of the example and warnings of our King Saint Stephen, in which he draws the attention of his successors to the appreciation of the national minorities, which are a factor of state-making, as they contribute to our country's growth. We could also mention many personalities from Hungarian history and spirit history, who, although they are not Hungarian native speakers in their origins, have made a very forward contribution to the right turn of Hungarian history and Hungarian fate in a creative way. The example of Miklós Zrínyi is well known, or many of the generals of 48 who may not even know Hungarian yet became Hungarian by identifying with the fate of our country. [[18.00]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Hungarian history is often affected by the accusation that it has been a stepmom in dealing with national minorities. It is possible that there were true examples in this regard. However, few mention that already in 1868 there was a nationality law - I repeat, in 1868 - that provided for, for example, the mother tongue education of nationalities. This is the basis for enforcing the rights of nationalities, because it is the mother tongue that, if we learn, speak, learn to pray, express ourselves, this is the most important assurance and guarantee that the most important foundation of our national identity and the dignity of our personality will remain intact. Well, that is why all the laws and all the stations that are trying to improve the small problems of the current situation are important to us, and this current bill is such a step in the legislation of the Hungarian Parliament. From the introductory words of Mr President and Secretary of State, we have heard well how many negotiations preceded the creation of this law and the amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities. We were pleased to hear that these negotiations were concluded with agreement, and that both the Committee of the Presenting Nationalities, the Government, the Ministry, Fidesz and hopefully the other parties will support this amendment, as the Christian Democratic People's Party does. I would not repeat some of the elements of the amendment, which are all important, and even though we have heard the words of Mr Teleki here, who has drawn attention to some gaps that still exist, I do not wish to take a position in them, because, as I said, every law and every situation is changing in general, and perhaps the Member also finds that Hungary's politics, the government and parties are very positive in terms of goodwill and opportunity. I would rather limit myself to seeing how nationalities in Hungary can exercise their rights. This cannot be said for all European countries, unfortunately. They have the right to set up kindergartens, schools and operate them from kindergarten through primary school, through high school to higher education. They can provide and provide teaching teachers in their own mother tongue. The Hungarian state will help with this through the training of teachers and the appropriate teacher education either at home or in the mother country where agreements have been reached. This is a huge condition for the continuation of the mother tongue, and therefore, on a perpetuity basis, the exercise of nationality rights, because if that is not the case, sooner or later the ethnic or minority language in a given area will perish and disappear, which, in turn, should be increased, protected and nurtured by the sacred duty of all of us. We have also heard, and it is very right, and this bill will further increase these rights, so that they can also operate their cultural institutions, cultivate their culture, maintain, and, in addition, obtain trust rights in cultural institutions. They can use their mother tongue in public administration, in everyday life. There are bilingual inscriptions in front of the settlements, and as an essential element of language use, they can also register their surnames and first names in their own language. This isn't everywhere. It is therefore exemplary, which is guaranteed by the Hungarian legislation. All the rights of nationality, which are now improved and raised by existing laws or by the law that has been negotiated here, are not only written words and laws, but practice shows this, and we do not know or very rarely experience a situation where practical life shows something quite different than the letters of the law. We therefore welcome this amendment once again, because we see it as a guarantee of the strengthening of human dignity and the survival of nationalities. The fact that ethnicity policy in Hungary and the situation of nationalities are not only acceptable here, but it is good, I could be convinced of it in two ways. On the one hand, I have discussed this issue with several representatives of nationality, who have a similar opinion, mentioning, of course, where else and where it needs to be improved, and we will always be partners in this. But I also list the international expert opinions that are well founded. Among these, the Committee of Experts on the Charter of Minority Languages of the Council of Europe and its President and Vice-President made such findings through serious investigations, and wrote that Hungary can be mentioned as an example in several respects. Finally, let me mention the situation that many foreign players are surprised to see. On the one hand, the fact that there are schools for minority self-governments here is a surprising view of many foreign politicians, and it is necessary to explain to them how we interpret this right and that this does not contradict the Hungarian system of public education or education, because, by definition, these ethnic schools fit into the Hungarian system of public education, the laws of which are binding on themselves, but in terms of teaching in the mother tongue and cultivating culture, that they are the maintainers and cannot make important decisions without them, this is essential. I can also bring here, for example, the issue of the appointment of directors, in which minority self-governments exercise very serious rights. The other example worth recommending to everyone is perhaps not yet well known in the Hungarian public opinion that you are here now six or seven, 13 nationalists represent the minority advocates, and we can cooperate in full harmony, and we always welcome and support their proposals with great goodwill and favor, and you can continue to expect this. Therefore, approximation or strengthening of law and practice is a matter of the heart of all of us. The Christian Democratic People's Party therefore supports this bill. Allow me to say two more sentences. On the next item, we will also discuss a proposal for nationality as an amendment to the Public Education Act. I have to say here that the Christian Democratic People's Party, of course, supports this, too, so that the allowance for ethnic teachers will increase in school. I thank you for your work, too. Please and I also promise to continue to cooperate effectively and fruitfully, not only on matters of nationality but also on other subjects. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-110	Welcome back to my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-30-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always stood in favour of increasing the rights of national minorities living in Hungary and enforcing these rights in practice. We believe that Hungary must pursue an exemplary nationalism policy, because it is the only way that it can stand up well for the aspirations of foreign Hungarians. Although the government is not willing to cooperate, we were very pleased that we proposed to reduce the nationality threshold to 10 per cent in relation to certain language rights, such as bilingual localities and street name signs, and to reduce it to 20 per cent in the case of bilingual or multilingual protocol making and the appointment of civil servants speaking the language of that nationality. [[18.10]] We are pleased that the national minority advocates of national minorities provide high standards within the framework of the national minority committee, which we monitor; all the work that is done there. For our part, we have also proposed to extend the power of minority advocates before. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement therefore supports the draft legislation from the Hungarian minority committee in everything. The proposal is a package of legislation which, on the basis of daily practice and accumulated experience, mainly contains changes to the scope and functioning of national authorities. We can, of course, support this, as Jobbik has been supporting, since its founding, the cultural autonomy of nationalities in Hungary and, if possible, its expansion. We therefore support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause for the ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-112	Thank you, Congressman. Since the LMP is not here, we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-11-30-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear fellow Members, Very briefly, I would just like to say two or three thoughts. The first question could be whether, first of all, if my knowledge is correct, they really did not want to bring this bill into Parliament's walls. This is not now, it concerns the previous period. I think the ruling party would have made a mistake if that hadn't happened, and I'm glad that's happening today. In line with the draft law, what I consider most important is that the guarantee of the rights of national minorities and its ratification are in practice taking place. The preservation of identity, which I believe is one of the most important tasks in the lives of all nationalities, will be confirmed. The draft law affects in many respects the issue of public education, the issue of nationality public education; the way in which the institution is to be maintained, as a recipient of local minority self-governments, and, where appropriate, the question of property or trust rights. I would just like to say, in this respect, that this is obviously essential for movable or real estate for the purpose of carrying out the task and that this is an important issue. In this respect, I think it is appropriate to confirm what is being formulated within the framework of the draft law. I regret that not all 13 ethnic spokespersons are present in the debate on the agenda, because being together can confirm and confirm what we are discussing. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-30-114	I'll give the floor to Mr. Imre Ritter in two minutes.
u2017-11-30-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to take Mr President's bread away from the closing, but the invitation from MEP László Teleki also found me, because in 94 I became president at the first municipal minority municipal election in Budaörs, and three years later - since it was not yet possible to choose regional minority self-governments and we resolved this in an association form - I became president 20 years ago of the Association of German Self-governments in Northern Hungary. Then I joined the General Assembly of the National German Municipality in 98 and led the financial committee there. In the meantime, ten years ago, when it was possible to choose a regional minority self-government, I became President of the German Municipality of Pest County. I think that these three could be co-ordinated without any particular problems at work, even in busyness, and that I have not been a member of the minority self-government since the mandate of the advocate, but I continue to do the ÉMNÖSZ Presidency, because I consider it extremely important to have direct, direct, permanent contact with local minority self-governments. This is just an option, of course, that does not have to be used, and it also prevents the system problem of applying to all three levels, being nominated for election, and, when elected, starting with the need to resign, to replace it. I therefore believe that this does not cause problems for both the smaller and the large nationalities. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-30-116	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in a normal time frame.
u2017-11-30-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Indeed, as László Teleki and Nándor Gúr have just mentioned, this debate is at a late hour, but perhaps it would have been a good idea if all thirteen of them were here in the House, as this would have certainly broadcast unity. And by the way, I miss Florian Farkas, because he should definitely have something to say, here, watching the incredible great communication he's doing in the Gypsy case, that he's the only and possible representative of this kind of gypsy. But aside from this, let me say one more thing as a criticism, before I come to it in substance that I had previously supervised this area as a secretary of state, the issue of minorities and national minorities, and when we wanted to touch on one of these laws, we usually organised a five-party consultation in Parliament - we called it a five-party consultation, so there were so many factions in Parliament - precisely to demonstrate that in this matter, parliamentary parties are putting aside their party political interests, because the issue is as much a national matter as when we talk about our Hungarians across borders. So believe me, symbols have significance in politics. I think I don't have to explain this to you, and I'm a little sorry that we didn't have a conversation at least once where these questions, which László Teleki or anyone else raises, could have been cleared up relatively quickly. There is certainly something that we might have misunderstood, we do not understand the intention precisely, and a discussion on one side could have cleared up such misunderstandings, and on the other hand, the general public could have also carried a message to society that, behold, there are some topics in the Hungarian Parliament in which they can close together, the factions that otherwise on a lot of other issues are at each other's throats here in the House in the various debates. I thought that I would come into this debate because when I had to deal with it more closely, I came to know communities about the community of 13 national minorities that have an incredible value for Hungary. So you and those who work in this area are doing an identity-guarding, diversity-enhancing work that is exemplary in any way, and, in many cases, exemplary for us, the solidarity that is characteristic of you in each community. And I have experienced that while the citizens of the Hungarian nation, while the loyal citizens of Hungary, also love, respect and cherish the traditions, language and culture of their homeland. So it's just a little bit of my presence to show that there are some people who are interested in this topic, and by their presence they're trying to show their respect for the work you've done and do. Therefore, I can only tell you that what is included in this draft law, in this amendment, is all about raising salaries, setting wages and other issues, and I believe that they are measures that serve the development of this legislation, which applies to Hungarian national minorities. I have always been in favour of this type of amendment, because it can be an exemplary thing, even at European level it can be exemplary how these institutions operate in Hungary, under what legal framework, and in many cases it is used as an example of legal regulation and operation in Hungary in some debates. [[18.20]] I don't usually praise the government in this House very much, and I don't think there's much to it, but I do now. In particular, when more resources are provided for your work on the part of a government referral or a government faction, I think that is all right, so I thank Mr State Secretary for the work he is doing in this regard, because it is important that the resources needed to do this work are available in everyday practice. After all, the legislation is an important framework, but in order to be able to fill it with content, money is certainly needed, because then institutions and infrastructures can be maintained. I also believe that this is important because it also says a lot about one country, from a certain aspect it is certain how it treats national minorities in its territory. I know that Fidesz always disputes this, but it is an important argument in my mind that if we treat national minorities here in Hungary with honor, then we can rightly expect that the Hungarian national minority living across the border will be treated with honor in other countries. And perhaps, in this respect, the pairing claim can be justified. Secondly, I am glad that you are presenting this because I have always been in favour of the principle that they should never be adopted without them, so in Hungarian: we must not accept an amendment that is not consulted - I am sorry to say so badly - with those involved. Therefore, I consider this to be an absolutely right thing, even though I know that this consultation is sometimes very difficult, because 13 communities have different problems, not only between gypsy and 12 others, but also between smaller and larger communities, of course, there are other problems in their daily practice. Nevertheless, I think it is right to try to harmonise these interests and incorporate them systematically into such an amendment. Therefore, I would like to remind you last thought that although we have not yet decided to support this amendment in the MSZP fraction - for a time-frame - but I will do everything I can to ensure that the MSZP faction supports this proposal, even knowing that we may have questions or parts that need clarification in this draft law. But I think that the importance of the case, the value that you are creating, is certainly a guarantee that such an amendment is worthy of support, and I therefore think that this will not be a problem in the MSZP fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-118	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés.
u2017-11-30-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and welcome, Mr President. I didn't think there should be any particular debate with this bill, but I will answer a few things. I would like to point out to Mr László Teleki that I see him speaking to anything on the committee or here, always talking about wolves. The one who constantly scares the shepherds with wolves, sooner or later, they don't believe. You don't always have to scare anyone with Felix or the Florian - both Wolves - they do their job and they have their job. I think the Roma, the Gypsy people, are doing a lot for them. I would like to stress that if you have a problem with them, take the steps that might override your work, but you cannot do it. I ask you very nicely not to keep doing this in Parliament or on the committee, that a Member and an advocate are constantly referred to pejoratively. However, I would also like to say that when we talk about the support of Gypsies and Roma - this is something that the Minister has said to you in the committee, and he has often told you about this, and we have often not only said it, but also supported it with facts - beyond the fact that, since 2010, the support of nationalities has tripled, the support of Roma, Gypsy people and Roma families in matters and tasks related to catching up has increased in a much larger proportion in recent years. I think this is important, just because it belongs to the truth, and I ask you very much not to ask us for something that hasn't happened since 2010. I understand Mr Mesterházy's suggestion that they called five parliamentary parties at the time and consulted on this, and we have made a piece of legislation that results in 13 speakers sitting here in Parliament. And let me add a review to your comment. [[Attila Mesterházy: You should be more elevated in this situation!]] If you press the two-minute button, you can answer. I would like to read to you that there are not Gypsies and 12 other companies here, but representatives of Bulgarians, Greeks, Croatians, Poles, Germans, Armenians, Romanians, Ruthenians, Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenians and Ukrainians in Parliament. Let's not say different or different, let's name them because we honor them. Moreover, we are talking mostly about nationalities, not national minorities. That's what we're saying now in language, in the Fundamental Law. However, I would also like to add to you that, in some respects, criticism is justified, we accept many things, but in the Fundamental Law, which you have not supported, we have greatly strengthened the rights of nationalities. The extent to which the opportunities of nationalities have been extended in kindergarten and school maintenance over the last seven years, i.e. since 2010, is a pity to deny. Today, instead of 12 institutions, kindergartens and schools, 82 are now maintained, so the number of their sustainable institutions has increased almost sevenfold, and I add that the possibility of maintaining nationalities has also increased greatly. The fact that schools, kindergartens, cultural institutions, including theatres or any other relevant institutions, are being renewed is an opportunity over the last seven years, and I would add: especially in the last four years, for nationalities, which is a pity to dispute, to be taken away. Rather, it should be said that this change of legislation further strengthens this and strengthens the survival of nationalities. Same with the class trips. I didn't mean to bring this up, but under your government, there was hardly any school trip for children in the motherland. Now, thousands of children have been able to reach their mother tongue, thus increasing the opportunity to learn not only about Hungarian culture, but also about their own culture, where appropriate, about Bulgarian, Slovak, Slovenian, German or any other culture. All of this is a pity to be taken away, and I shouldn't have brought it up here, but since you are not only talking about the amendment of the law, which, by the way, the Committee of Nations has discussed for a very long and long time, and as far as I know, your parliamentary group has also been promised support for its vote, but I am very confident that they will be able to rise above the political issues which, in addition, do not prove your policy, but rather ours. And I want to thank Csaba for what he said. It is very good to hear that the government has accomplished much from Jobbik's ideas, from the program they have said about nationalities. That's true, thank you very much, I'm glad, because other times they say we'll never listen to you. I promise you that it will be the same in the coming cycles, and every time our government makes a good suggestion, it will be incorporated not only in these laws, but also in other laws. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-120	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes.
u2017-11-30-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, I thought we could continue this debate without confronting the Fides, but it seems to me that Mr Secretary of State is unfit for this. I also understand that history began with you, and it will end with you, and nothing good happened in this country before you came to government, nor will it, after you are no longer in government, because only you know what is welcome to Hungary, the Hungarian nation. [[18.30]] You know, Secretary of State, I would say that it would be appropriate to take a more modest approach to these questions, because you seem to have such a big face that you barely fit into this House. You didn't even notice that I wasn't criticizing you, I was praising you. I will not make that mistake again, I am absolutely sure, in this House. I was talking about the government doing the right thing, adding that during your first government, you didn't correct that failure to comply with the law. Even then, they would have had the chance. And the fact that you get to eight years in a conversation like this is a pretty big achievement. But I'm guessing you're determined to stay in a better position in Fidesz for the next election. I don't know what area you're running in, but it's probably necessary for me to rephrase my thought in sufficient depth. So, I'd say, based on what you've said here on a subject like this, you're a very big farmer. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2017-11-30-122	Thank you. Please hold back, everyone, but I don't see anyone who wants to talk to him right now. So, since there is no intention to comment, the general debate is closed. I will ask János Fuzik, a Slovak national minority advocate, if he wishes to comment. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2017-11-30-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow speakers! Dear Secretary of State, I think, although it is indeed a large legislative amendment proposal, the closing word no longer requires a specific analysis, but I would like to take some responses, because we were actually asked for. That's appropriate. First of all, I would like to thank you, on behalf of our committee, on behalf of my fellow speakers, for the words of appreciation you have given us for this work. I think that whoever held our legislative amendment proposal in their hands could sense that it was indeed a long and meaningful activity and work. Perhaps I would like to respond specifically to the questions asked by Mr László Teleki. On the one hand, thank you very much for your proposal to rethink the individual segments as regards ownership. Obviously, as I indicated, this law awaits further work. I think a law is like a living organism, it needs to be treated from time to time, adapted to life. I may have mentioned that we may have grabbed a lot, but in some areas we have followed the tactics of small steps, and we have tried to move in a direction that has succeeded, especially in matters as important as the issue of ownership. We have now set out the acquisition of trust rights, which we have seen as a realistic prospect. All the more so, because this has already been achieved in the case of state institutions, so we also had a reference. As we have seen, my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, for example, fully supported this effort. By the way, I believe that this is one of the fundamental issues for national authorities. So if our bill is really passed by the Parliament and it becomes law enforcement, then it can be very helpful in the future. With regard to the three levels, to which Imre Ritter also replied: that a candidate for nationality could operate on three levels in the municipalities, in local, municipal, regional, so it was mandatory at the two levels. When it was not direct elections, but electoral elections, only local representatives could participate in a national government, as they chose the national government. So it was natural. Then, when the regional level came in, it wasn't banned. Then national representatives felt that they had been deprived of some kind of right with this restriction. Now, as I have mentioned, a large part of our proposals have come from the Association of National National Governments and national minority self-governments. This is, among other things, aware of the needs of local representatives, the needs of their own representatives... so this demand came from there, and we supported it. This is already linked to another issue, which you have also supported, and others, that we have also built the increase in fees in the legislative proposal as an opportunity. We know that this is more of a gesture in the case of local minority self-governments, as their representatives largely do not even receive a fee. So it's an opportunity for them. I am pleased that the five-member municipal bodies are experiencing a positive change, and this signal came from the national authorities, that is the need. In particular, he asked that we respond that this change, allowing or approving or restoring the three-level municipal activity, does not mean that a local government representative, a local government representative, may also be a minority spokesperson. As Mrs Mónika Dunai mentioned, the Act on Parliament also provides for this today. Thus, a minority advocate cannot be a representative or official of a minority self-government, just as no parliamentary representative can be a municipal representative or mayor. So that's how it is. We have not amended the National Assembly Act, but we have really tried to represent this new institution, institutions, an institution that is important to us as well, a representative of nationality, a possible institution, but not yet in practice, or a committee representing the rights and interests of nationalities. Of course, this is much more thoroughly and in its place regulated by the Parliament Act, but we felt that such a significant change in such a great code for us should be reflected in some way. I think that further reflection will be waiting for the future committee, future spokespersons, national representatives. This work will be educational for them, I think, what we have done is that it is more worthwhile to review a segment of the national minority law and indeed to develop it thoroughly; for example, the relationship between national governments and local governments, where the acquisition of property you raise may once again be on the agenda - but also other issues. Of course, we are open to the suggestion of Mr Csaba Gyüre that it would be desirable to extend and extend the powers of advocate. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is no longer with us, with whom more of us worked as national municipal presidents. Obviously, you can think about a five-party settlement, but it's not really our jurisdiction. On the one hand, we are not members of party factions, and on the other hand we are not members, but everything can be resolved in the future, if there is openness. In any case, we still appreciate the fact that, in fact, all political groups have supported our ideas in advance. I ask you to support this if you have not yet made a firm decision in the MSZP faction. Once again, it would be very nice to have this legislative amendment proposal adopted by a parliamentary political consensus at the next parliamentary meeting. This afternoon, the representative body of the National Government of Slovenia came to Parliament, and we informed them about our work. [[18.40]] It was nice to see the genuine joy when I told them that after two years, perhaps for a third run, but today the Parliament will negotiate a law that can bring many changes in their lives, and when I listed the changes that are expected, we really saw that there would be meaning, results, and a more modern and better law could be born. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the government, the specialists, for the very effective professional support they have provided, and this is why today we have indeed had the general debate. I ask for the support of the factions and Members in the final vote, so I ask that Parliament accept our motion to amend its own law. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-30-124	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. Next up is the 2011 CXC on national public education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The bill submitted by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/18297. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to the German ethnic advocate Ritter Imre, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-11-30-125	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Der Ausschuss der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten hat den Gesetzvorschlag: Modifizierung des nationalen, einheitlichen Bildungsgesetzes CXC vom Jahr 2011 mit der Nummer T/18297 für das Parlament um in der Generaldebatte zu besprechen am 07. 11. 2017 eingerecht. Erlassen sie mir bitte, dass ich als Beauftragter Parlamentssprecher des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten die Bedeutung und den Hintergrund dieses durch uns erarbeiteten und mit den betroffenden Regierungsabteilungen und mit allen Fraktionen vorangehend schon abgesprochenen Gesetzvorschlages kurz bekannt gebe. Mr President, Dear House, On 7 November 2017, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary submitted the 2011 National Education Report to be discussed in this general debate. CXC. T/18297. Bill No. 1. Allow me to briefly explain the background and significance of the legislative proposal that we have drawn up, which we have already agreed with the relevant wallets and all parliamentary factions, as a minority spokesperson requested by the committee representing Hungarian minorities. On the basis of the bill, the 2011 CXC on national public education. As of 1 January 2018, row 6 of Annex 8 to Law No 8 is amended to increase the lower and upper limit of the nationality allowance to 15 per cent instead of the current 10 per cent. The aim of the bill is to compensate for the shortage of minority educators, which has created an increasing problem in Hungary's public education institutions in recent years, and to provide the qualified professionals to the Hungarian nationalities. In order to maintain the minority educators on the field, to improve the appreciation of national minority teachers, the Government and the Parliament are the Act on the Central Budget of Hungary in 2018 XX. - in Chapter 56 of the Ministry of Human Resources. He provided support for this purpose under the sub-title "Citizenship Grants." At the same time, this support will allow for an increase in the number of participants in national education education, the quality of training, and an increase of the current 10 per cent nationality allowance to 15 per cent. The increase of the nationality bonus from 1 January 2018 requires the 2011 CXC on national public education. the amendment was submitted by law. In June 2017, I would like to thank the Hungarian Government for supporting the request of the Hungarian nationalities, and in the 2018 Central Budget Act, it provided the necessary financial cover for the launch of the national minority educator's programme. The bill itself is only three sentences, but its significance is still of paramount importance for the future of Hungarian ethnicities. What exactly is this about? I would like to inform you that the public education institution network of the 13 nationalities in Hungary, their structure and maintenance are different in many respects, but what we have been constantly feeling for almost a decade and a half and can be said for all nationalities is the numerical and sometimes qualitative shortcomings in the education of national minorities, the worsening situation of the education of national minorities. Between September 2016 and February 2017, a full survey was carried out in the area of national minority preschools, since the return and confirmation of our children's mother tongue should take place in the first stage of the national nursery school. Of the 13 nationalities living in Hungary, eight ethnic minorities have an officially ethnic kindergarten - Croatian, German, Roma, Romanian, Ruthenian, Serbian, Slovak and Slovenian - and five nationalities - Bulgarian, Greek, Polish, Armenian, Ukrainian - have no ethnic kindergartens operating as registered institutions. The situation of the eight nationalities with national minority kindergartens is also different in many respects, depending on their location in Hungary, how far they are from the mother country, how much is the number of people and so on. Thus, there are common points on the issue of national minority preschools, but also specific features per nationality, such as on most ethnic issues, so it is not possible to provide a template solution for all nationalities and all problems. In addition, the Roma in Hungary are also in a particular situation compared to other nationalities, since while the other nationalities try to bring children of national minorities together in smaller or larger minority kindergartens and provide them with ethnic education, in the case of Roma children, the problem of segregation may arise at any time. All eight nationalities with national minority kindergartens were covered by the national education survey and project, and I would now like to present the problem with the combined results of a survey of German national preschools with the largest kindergarten network. According to the official register, 215 German national minority kindergartens are located in Hungary; coincidence - or perhaps even fateful - is a coincidence, but the fact is that Hungarian ethnicity across the border also has 215 Hungarian ethnic kindergartens in neighbouring countries. As defined in the Public Education Act, there can be three types of kindergartens: monolingual, or ethnic mother tongue; bilingual, where there is education in both ethnic and Hungarian languages; and a kindergarten in Hungarian with Roma and Gypsy cultural education. Obviously, the seven nationalities can be affected by the first two types of nationality kindergarten. Only one kindergarten, Valeria Koch in Pécs, and only three years of education in the German language have been held from the 215 German ethnic nursery schools. [[18.50]] The other 214 German kindergartens are taught in two languages. According to the Public Education Act, children receiving nationality education in bilingual national preschools should be treated in more than half of their education time in ethnic languages, which means that both kindergarten teachers working in ethnic groups should have a degree in nationality. There are 568 ethnic groups in the 215 German minority kindergartens, with 1136 ethnic teachers per group. On the other hand, the actual number of German kindergarten educators is only 662, i.e. the number of missing German ethnic educators is 474, which is 41.7 percent of the required number, so almost every second German ethnic educator is missing. If we look at and group the aggregated data by kindergarten, then the number of kindergartens where both kindergarten teachers or the municipalities where they are lucky and three kindergarten teachers are in one group, at least two of which have ethnic qualifications, 33 are there, i.e. only 15.4 percent of all kindergartens. In other words, every seventh kindergarten has the personal conditions for a statutory nationality education. The number of kindergarten teachers with more ethnic education than the number of ethnic groups is 39 kindergartens, 18.1 percent of all kindergartens. In these kindergartens, the minimum requirement is in any case that the loss of a national kindergarten teacher for a shorter or longer period of time is still ensured in all groups. In all other German ethnic preschools, two thirds of the kindergartens have a maximum of one German national kindergarten teacher per group, i.e. the temporary or permanent loss of any German nationality kindergarten teacher - children, patients, leave careers, and the rest - not even a national kindergarten teacher per group can be guaranteed. Finally, even at the time of the survey, 22 German kindergarten schools, 10 percent of kindergarten schools, had fewer German ethnic teachers than German ethnic groups, 9 ethnic kindergarten teachers with national qualifications. In four kindergartens, German ethnic groups were no longer launched in 2016 due to the lack of a minority kindergarten teacher. On this basis, it should be said that, on the basis of the principle of nationality education, there is no effective German nationality education in about two thirds of German ethnic preschools. This difficult situation has been caused by several factors, and it has been difficult over the last two to three years by large-scale migration to Austria and Germany, which has increased the need for a German language educator, which has accelerated the employment of German ethnic teachers in a foreign German language area. With regard to German nationality, there is also a serious risk that there is no higher education course in Austria and Germany, so graduate students from Hungarian universities, colleges, German ethnic education school are welcome in Austria and Germany, even in kindergarten management positions. Based on the data surveyed and processed by national minority authorities, the remaining seven nationalities also have significant educational shortages, and their lack of kindergarten educators is close to 80. Thus, the overall deficit of the 8 ethnic minorities in Hungary is about 550 persons. In the last five years, 75-80 national children's educators received a vocational degree and a degree each year on the average of the five years. The current situation poses a fundamental threat to the functioning of national pre-schools due to the lack of a nationality educator, which requires immediate and effective action. Therefore, on the basis of the discussions and discussions with 7 universities and colleges who have completed national education courses, the two competent State Secretariats of the Ministry of Human Capacities have been consulted with the Ministry of Human Capacities, in an optimal case every year, about 100 persons could be trained for initial education as a kindergarten teacher, and about 60 persons could be trained every year as a complement to the ethnic training of preschool teachers with Hungarian basic education in the eight ethnicities concerned. From 1 September 2018, we would like to achieve an increase in the number of trainees, a significant improvement of the quality of the training, in particular the relevant nationality language skills and ethnicity content, and a direct contract of contracting to ensure that the graduates of national pre-school teachers start the course of national education. I would like to thank you once again for the fact that it is extremely important that the budget for 2018 already includes the budgetary coverage of the measures planned in the course of national education. In addition to the education of national minority educators, the second major task is to keep ethnic teachers on the field, since - and this is equally true of all Hungarian nationalities - foreign companies working in Hungary have a significant exhausting effect, as ethnic teachers speaking the language of nationality can achieve higher benefits in business than teachers for foreign companies operating in Hungary, even because of their extra language skills. That is why we consider it very important to launch this multi-annual national education programme in order to keep national educators on track. The first step of this programme - and especially only the first step - is to increase the nationality allowance of some 3000 ethnic teachers in kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, from 10 to 15 percent, i.e. by 50 percent, the legal condition of this legislation. With this 50 percent increase, we would like to point out as a first step to all ethnic educators that they have a key role to play in maintaining, strengthening our mother tongue, maintaining our ethnic culture and traditions, strengthening our ethnic identity, ensuring the future of our nationalities, and therefore, in the future, we want to give them particular attention and appreciation. Fortunately, there is political will on the part of both the government and Hungarian politics. This increase in national minority allowances, regardless of the maintainer, extends to all national minority teachers entitled to all national minority allowances. The bill has, of course, been dealt with in advance with the relevant wallets, the government, all parliamentary factions, and so I respectfully ask you to support T/18297 in a uniform manner. The adoption of our bill. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit.
u2017-11-30-126	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State, Miklós Soltész, if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] He says yes, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-11-30-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I thought it was unworthy to respond to Congressman Mesterházy earlier. I'm not ashamed of you calling me a farmer. It's just that if they weren't farmers, you would've starved to death. [[19.00]] Dear Speakers, Dear Parliament, Mr President, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary examined the situation of national minority education on the basis of the indications received from national authorities and national minority public education institutions, as we have heard from the author. Based on these studies, at the time of the adoption of the 2018 Budget Act, a nationality kindergarten development programme was initiated to create funds for the performance of tasks that contribute to increasing the effectiveness and attractiveness of the education of national minority teachers in order to ensure that as many youth as possible choose this profession. A further objective was also set to make every effort to keep national educators on track already on track, which was seen as a means of increasing the nationality bonus to national educators meeting the statutory conditions. The above objectives coincide with the government's educational policy intentions. The general objective is to increase the social appreciation of the pedagogical profession, to improve the skills of teachers, and to ensure that as many people as possible choose to be teachers. In order to achieve these objectives, a number of measures have been taken, including the gradual increase in pedagogue wages and the introduction of a rating system. These measures also affect ethnic educators, in line with the goals that nationalities want to pursue. It is an important fact that a committee of advocates of ethnic communities in Hungary has proposed to improve the conditions for the education of a minority educator. National education is undoubtedly one of the areas that fundamentally define the future of nationalities, so it is important that we pay attention to the way in which ethnic communities imagine the legislative and budgetary framework for shaping education. It is good that the elected representatives and advocates of nationalities can also express themselves in this Parliament; let us add that they are effective, since, as we have heard from the spokesperson now, the 2018 Budget Act contains the sources of the programme proposed by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. In order to be able to use the resources to increase the nationality bonus as from 1 January 2018, it is necessary to amend the rate of the nationality bonus provided for in the National Public Education Act. This legislation sets this out in a uniform way for all ethnic educators. This amendment proposes an increase from 10 per cent to 15 per cent for all ethnic educators. We're talking about nearly 3,000 teachers raising 50,000 children and students. 1044 of them are kindergarten educators, and 1890 are teachers in schools, doing their job. The increase in the bonus and other elements of the national education education programme to improve the quality of national education can contribute to an increase in the prestige of the teaching profession of nationality, and may also have an impact on the choice of national minority youth for the teaching profession. The Government therefore agrees with the proposal, we support it, and we ask others to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-11-30-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! Dear Parliament, The starting point of the bill is that in Hungary's public education institutions, the lack of numbers of ethnic educators is an increasing challenge in recent years. The Fidesz Group also considers it extremely important to keep the ethnic educators already on the track, to train and improve the appreciation of national minority teachers. In achieving this goal, we are ready to cooperate with the nationalities in Hungary, with the minority advocates. Allow me to thank the ethnic advocates from this place for their commitment to preparing the bill and the current bill under the previous item on the agenda, and I would also like to thank you for the work you are doing for our fellow citizens who claim to belong to your nationalities in Hungary. On the basis of the initiative of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the Fidesz Group supported the inclusion in the 2018 Budget Act of the resources of a National School Development Programme, which was also planned in the EMMI chapter. Part of this programme is to increase the level of nationality allowance to national teachers who meet the statutory conditions. The payment of the allowance shall be subject to an increase in the amount of the national minority allowance in the sixth line of Annex 8 to the National Public Education Act, failing which the increased amount of the allowances may not be paid, although the coverage is available in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the law will also allow for an increase in the number of participants in national education education, the improvement of the quality of training and the increase of the current 10-percent nationality allowance for national teachers to 15 per cent. The Fidesz Group fully agrees with these objectives, these efforts, and we therefore support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-130	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-30-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When discussing the draft law on national public education, I must confirm immediately that the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the increase of the bonus for ethnic teachers from 10 percent to 15 percent. I would also like to confirm that we also see and feel the necessity of this, so it is not a simple gesture, it is also about the fact that there are clearly limited numbers; the example of the pulpit was given in the drafting of the keynote speech. We are faced with a multitude of lack of qualified professionals, so it must be ensured and strengthened. Whether it's kindergarten teachers, teachers, or teachers, there's obviously a shortage. In the case of kindergarten teachers, I know that a quarter of the kindergarten teachers can be interpreted as housewives, and more than 10 percent of the teachers are in this circle in the same way. The situation of Roma nationalities is peculiar: there is a strong lack of ethnic educators, and a significant change must be achieved in the coming period. Two things I would also like to say. One was the development of the 2013 career model, which talked about a one-time wage increase, which would have been a one-time wage increase. This was born in August 2012 within the framework of a regulation, and then in September 2012 it was modified in practically thirty days, and only 60% of the amount was allocated to teachers, and the additional 40 percent was received in several instalments for several years. Well, that's the kind of one-off wage increase I can't identify with, we can't identify with, because the last detail of a one-time wage increase in quotes is now being given to these people in 2017, who are already receiving a vote of confidence from the head of the institution. [[19.10]] The other problem I would like to raise is, in short, that it doesn't matter what the screening fund is. The minimum wage was the screening fund until 2015. From 2015 onwards, after that, a fixed amount of HUF 101 500. In recent years, as always, the minimum wage has suffered some kind of increase in a good sense, but the projection fund, since it is a lump sum of HUF 101 500, remains a fixed amount. Thus, in relation to the reference to HUF 101,500, there is virtually no real wage increase in terms of wage increases, and it would be useful to implement the projection fund in line with the minimum wage up to 2015. I would like to add one thought to the draft law: I would like to show and point out that, in terms of teacher's wages, there is not only austerity or difficulty in relation to ethnic teachers, but also in general, because there is a huge lag from the European wage level, but I would say, also in relation to the Visegrád Four. For this reason, it would also be worthwhile to achieve a uniform education wage increase here, especially taking into account the often said economic results. The final sentence is that the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the draft law when voting, in addition to strengthening the aforementioned issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP and ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. KDNP indicated that it would withdraw its speech as speaker. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-11-30-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! At the previous item on the agenda, I also said that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always stood up for the rights of national minorities living in our country and for its fulfillment, since Hungary, as I said, has to demonstrate an exemplary attitude with minority minorities in order to set an example for the nations living in the area, how they should treat Hungarian national minorities in neighbouring countries. So that's one of those reasons, but not just for this, but for us, anyway. We are aware that today, unlike promises, the pedagogical career model has not achieved what they would have wanted, and it is far from providing as much livelihood and wealth as it has been promised in this regard. And we can see that this is a serious shortage of teachers in ethnic education. Imre Ritter, a national minority spokesperson, said these problems, saying that not only the other states where they can use their language, but also their mother tongue, but even in Hungary, are the extractive force of multinational companies, foreign companies, which welcome multilingual workers and can achieve higher incomes than they would receive as teachers. Similarly, German native speakers in Austria, Germany, are obviously able to find excellent jobs for multiple payments, but yes, Slovakia or Poland are already having problems with their absorption power, and many are going there as well. In addition, there is a need to be trained, good teachers at the right level in these schools and kindergartens, and therefore Jobbik Hungary Movement stands in favour of giving them every opportunity. And, of course, this is a small thing, because it is only a 5% bonus, which we naturally support, and we say for our part that it could be much higher, and we would support it if such a proposal were to be submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. We support the proposal. [[A round of applause from the ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-134	Thank you. The LMP Group is not present. Thus, we have come to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki.
u2017-11-30-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Speech Lords, I think that there is an important bill ahead of us, as Nándor Gúr said, that the Hungarian Socialist Party supports it, because there is an important purpose marked in this law. I have to start my speech again by saying where Flórian Farkas is. Secretary of State, it's not my phobia. I held a forum in Eger last night, and I held a forum in Eger this morning, not for the same audience, but both asked what Flórian Farkas was doing in Parliament, because he has not spoken in the press yet, he has not spoken in Parliament for a minute. I have to answer the questions that voters ask in this case as well. I will tell you at the nearest forum that if you ask again why Flórian Farkas is not present with such a law or why he does not speak up because he works a lot in the background, and that is why he is not available. So that's what I have to say, what you said. So I don't want to know why Flórian Farkas is not here for such a law, but the voters want to know why he's not here and why he hasn't spoken for three and a half years. This law, too, deserved so much attention that if it were in such a position to come and say it supports it, because it also increases the chances of many Roma children being able to stay in culture, education and public education. Therefore, I think it would have been very important. I'd like to add one sentence to the law. I think that there is perhaps another comment here, which is not negative at all: teacher training should also be mentioned at some level, because in the education of nationalities - whether as a kindergarten teacher or as a teacher - the materials inside should be broadened in order to know much more about nationalities in Hungary. With this, I also think that educator training should be synchronized, because we think it is important. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of MSZP. It's a rare applause from the ranks of ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-136	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés.
u2017-11-30-137	I would like to respond briefly, partly to László Teleki. Thank you very much for providing such legal protection, and in various socialist forums, where there are obviously huge crowds asking what is going on with Flórian Farkas, why he does not speak, and you will also say that in the background he is doing a lot for the rise of Gypsy people and Roma people. I thank you very much for all this for you and for all those who do this in front of a huge crowd. However, the target audience is obviously different. And I would just like to say to Nándor Gúr, although he criticized the teacher's wage increase over the past years, still 175,000 teachers were hit by nearly 50 percent increase. And I would add that we didn't do all this out of debt, all of this, even the current increase that the majority of Parliament accepted at the hearing of the 2018 budget, made it possible for the economy to perform well, there is good economic policy in the country, and this is not about debt. I think this is a very important thing, because obviously we can only keep our teachers here and give them the opportunity to raise wages if there is financial funding behind it. I think that we have achieved all this and thank you very much for your comments, by the way. I would also like to thank the ethnic advocates for the proposal that we can now discuss. Thank you very much for allowing us to start thinking that, indeed, in order to preserve the language, to remain in nationality, the kindergarten children, the educators and carers, have also spent time and not only time but also money, as we can see. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the Fidesz and the ethnic advocates.]]
u2017-11-30-138	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment on the proposal. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Imre Ritter, a minority advocate, if he wishes to comment at the end. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2017-11-30-139	Thank you very much. , Honourable House of Representatives! The most important and at the same time most natural right of every national minority is to train their children in their own language. [[19.20]] The only way for cultural peoples to pass on their ethnicity and culture undamaged and incorruptible from generation to generation is for the school to help them. The question is, how is the government decree and the implementing regulation supplementing it put into effect, i.e. what is the actual state of German-language teaching in the elementary folk schools of our German-speaking communities? This condition - pain - everything is more than satisfactory. According to the press report of the Prime Minister's Office in the autumn of 1928, there were 463 so-called minority schools in 390 municipalities, of which 49, or 10, is A-type, 98, or 21, or 21, or 2% B-type and 316, or 68, or 68, or 2% C-type, or real mother tongue teaching, is only 31% on papyros. (...) What is the result of this school system does not need to be further explained. The German-speaking youth who graduated from primary school cannot write and read half-German until 70%, and 90% of the German-speaking youth who graduated from secondary school cannot write a German letter, but can't even edit a German sentence in the way that German-born educated people do. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On Tuesday, 9 May 1933, Jacob Leier, the first and the last national minority ministers of Hungary, said these sentences in the House of Parliament. I brought up these sentences because it was almost 85 years ago, 84 and a half years ago, and for Hungarian ethnicities, wars, expulsions, abductions, decades of communism followed. So from where we started and started, there are explanations. Therefore, I am very pleased that, with this bill - including the previous bill - I think that for several years - we can only talk about programmes and longer periods in education, although we are at 24 hours - a programme will be launched which, after 85 years, really creates the opportunity for nationalities in Hungary to make great progress on education and education issues. To this, in the opening speech earlier, I said that there is a political will for the government, and I think that it is on the part of Parliament, on the part of Hungarian politics. Let me tell you one thing, because I think this is a good time. After the 2014 parliamentary election, when we considered our tasks and objectives, the situation of our public education institutions was, of course, a first priority. For the first time in 2013, it was possible for national minority self-governments as well as local minority self-governments to take over maintenance rights in national minority public education institutions. At the time, President Ottó Heinek's first concern was to make an appointment and to sit down with Minister Zoltán Balog as Minister of Nationalities, and to ask him whether, personally, as Minister of Nationalities, his personal opinion would be, if a greater number of institutions were to be taken over by local ethnic authorities, whether they would change or withdraw from the undoubtedly favourable funding that today is due to the national minority institutions, because if this could happen, it would not be possible and irresponsible to take over ethnic public education institutions. At the time, the Minister's reply was that under no circumstances will it be reduced, but his personal aim is to ensure that all Hungarian public education institutions reach the level of funding as soon as possible, as is the case with the national minority institutions taken over. I think that, of course, we Hungarian nationalities would be pleased if this were to happen as soon as possible. Thank you very much for the supporting contributions, and perhaps so much for the increase in the minority pedagogue bonus, that, of course, we are here in Parliament primarily to try to provide better opportunities for ethnic teachers, so we have chosen to increase the nationality bonus and not to raise basic wages and career models and other amendments. I would also like to thank Mr Teleki László for his comment on the education, teaching and teaching of nationalities. Of course, during this short period of time, it was possible to look at the teaching course of national education in the past year and a half from one to the next, and to develop a program in which we can take a meaningful step from 1 September 2018. After all, the children have the nationality language competences for 6 years, which Árpád Potápi said very nicely, and I agree with every word he has said, and national education and teacher training is a much more complex and difficult thing compared to that. Here, we will also assess the nationality and teaching status of all primary schools and primary schools, secondary schools, and the problems there, and we will also discuss with the training universities, with the help of the competent State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the necessary and possible program in the education of ethnic teachers. This is a key issue, so that the minority kindergarten, ethnic primary school and high school are an absolutely clean process. I thank everyone for their comments, their support, and for our part we will do everything we can to ensure that this process, which is about to start, is strengthened and completed in the next cycle. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-11-30-140	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session next Monday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:28 p.m.]]
