u2017-11-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 17th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. I also welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, There are few people in the world that account for a national day of mourning. As in so many things, we are one of the few; on several mourning days we are forced to recall the tragedies of Hungary and Hungary. Tomorrow, we remember the day of the death of the Revolution and the War of Independence of October 1956, the return of the Hungarian people who raised their heads from the vehicle of the Communist dictatorship and broke out for a few days, who knew the incomparable feeling of freedom. We remember the known and unknown heroes who sacrificed their lives to live today in an independent and democratic rule of law. From the flashbacks we know that November 4, 1956 was foggy, and it was already winter-quoting Sunday. People waited peacefully and hopefully for Monday, the beginning of work. The country wanted to work, to live, to show that it was able to rebuild the country from the ruins. Unfortunately, he didn't stand a chance. We've been victims of multiple betrayals. The two great powers, the United States of America and the Soviet Union have already agreed on our fate, and internal treachery and the sale of the country have finally sealed the fate of the revolution. The fate that was about to take place was inexhaustible. At 5:20 a.m., the morning program of free radio Kossuth and Petőfi was interrupted by a tragic word: Attention! This is Imre Nagy speaking. At dawn today, Soviet troops launched an attack on our capital city with the obvious intention of overthrowing the legitimate Hungarian democratic government. Our troops are in battle. The government is in position. That's what I'm telling the people of this country and the public of the world. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The sound of the Anthem and the Word was rarely so timely. The volition, the Soviet tanks destroyed the wonderful revolution of October 1956. After November 4, there was a wave of terror never seen. A multitude of young people were carried to the Soviet Union, hundreds were divided into gallows; more than two hundred thousand were forced to leave our country, and for them the emigration, foreign fate became part of their lives, and many could only touch the Hungarian land again in death. Remember the well-known and unknown Hungarian heroes, the victims who sacrificed everything they had to turn our country's fate to the right. Please rise and remember, if we keep them in our memory, they will live forever. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you very much. Have a seat. Dear Parliament, On November 3, 1825 Count István Széchenyi offered the annual income of his estates for the foundation of the Hungarian Society of Sciences, thus enabling the establishment of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In 2003, the Parliament declared the importance of this day by law, accepting that it considered the role of science in society to be of paramount importance, the activities carried out in order to cultivate and develop science worthy of recognition and support. The 2003 XCIII. According to the law, this day is the celebration of Hungarian science. The holiday will be followed by a series of national scientific programmes lasting one month, which will try to open the door to knowledge as widely as possible for interested parties. For centuries, Hungarian researchers and scientists have made a significant contribution to increasing the scientific knowledge of mankind, and they also play a decisive role in domestic and international higher education and economic life. For this, Hungary's Fundamental Law guarantees the freedom of scientific research and artistic creation, as well as the freedom of learning and teaching. Ladies and gentlemen, From among the late Hungarian scientists, let me now highlight János Arany, to whom we are celebrating the 200th anniversary of his birth. One of the most outstanding personalities of Hungarian literature was the secretary-general of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences as a literary scientist and science organizer. He and similar personalities embellish the pantheon of Hungarian science and serve as an example for present and future scientists. We respect and respect each and every one of them. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, After the two memorials, we will move on to today's program. It follows from the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/17996. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-11-03-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us is the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. It also regulates the system of the related implementing regulation and the transmission of data to the Minister of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office related to the water utility service. This bill lays, in particular, the foundations for the continuous updating of the content of the national public water utility register implemented by the National Development Programme Office. This also creates a link between the national water utility register and the aforementioned water utility register. The addition of the Water Utilities Act sets out the scope of the data to be transmitted between the systems concerned, the way in which the relationship is to be established, and arrangements are made for the establishment of detailed rules. As a result of the amendment, a link between the national water utility register and the public trust register is established, i.e. the latter database is directly connected to the data management system. It is also defined that the data of the public authentic data register can be managed by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office for the future. The common public-credited data content is generated in the national water utility register, which is also managed by the MEKH for the future, and is transmitted and transmitted directly to the public-credited registered database content by the MEKH, creating the data link referred to in the previous law, the previous law. The detailed rules for the reporting of the Office are laid down in the NFM Regulation. This amendment also ensures that the national development minister and the minister responsible for water management will have access and access to data generated in connection with the amendment. [[9.10]] The integrated public water utility database, which is a revised system of previous data content, is implemented from the operational programme for administrative and public service development from sources provided by the European Union and partly by the Hungarian government. The public policy objective with the so-called IKVA is to create a service approach and ethical functioning in the public service, with an integrated customer centre information database containing information on public services at municipal and water utility level, and then, when used, it will provide access in the form of counter-data flows. Together, the two systems can ensure that all elements of the water utility service in Hungary, whether owned by local, public or public utility operators, will have all the information at our disposal, which is important in order to ensure improvements in the future and to ensure the reconstruction fund. This system design also serves to comply with EU rules by providing continuous information after all EU developments have taken place during the maintenance period following the implementation of the VIKKA project and following the operation of the established database. In view of the above, the main objective of the bill is to create an integrated public water utility database that will enable us to fulfil our mandatory tasks towards EU development. On the other hand, the bill also serves to reduce red tape, as the implementation of the integrated public water utility database creates a complete IT system that uses data generated in the interests of water utility providers and those responsible for the provision of services, as well as the body supervising the water utility service. This will create a single, modern, stable and office-supporting database that is indispensable to organisations performing official tasks in the field of water utility services, for example in the direction of charging authority or in the direction of other sectoral tasks and public utilities. The database itself allows water utility providers to submit data to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office by means of a one-stop shop, automatically and through the IKVA database the relevant organisations have access to the necessary data necessary for their activities, their development plans and their operation, thereby significantly reducing their administrative burden. This new system will allow for the introduction of the smart meter in the future, its design, the appropriate data content and the basis for the establishment of the system. I would like to stress that personal data is not stored or collected in the system, and this will be a purely professional database system, which will clearly regulate the complex screening and review of the means necessary for the public service. The bill before you, the legislation in the water utility sector, contains minor amendments, however, which facilitate the establishment of an integrated IT system in the sector. I call on this House to support the establishment of the system both during the debate and during the vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-03-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-03-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill, because by adopting it, the introduction of digitalisation and electronic databases will further reduce bureaucratic burdens, in line with Fidesz's bureaucracy reduction objectives. The bill serves four objectives. It creates the legal background of the integrated public water utility database, i.e. IKVA, and the preparation of the national public water utility register, i.e. the VIKKA. It also provides the conditions for so-called smart measurement in the field of water utility services and includes minor clarifications, the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. Law. Let's look at the changes to the first of these, i.e. changes to the integrated public water utility database. In the programming period 2014-20, public administration and the development of the local public service sector will be implemented within the framework of the operational programme for public administration and public service development. Its primary objective is to use electronic administration and IT applications in a wider range of public administrations. The aim is to reduce the time limit for administration and to make more informed decisions based on data. The IKVA is closely linked to the creation of a State of service, as set out in the Public Administration and Public Service Development Strategy 2014-2020, and to improving the quality of public services. The public policy objective to be achieved is to strengthen the service approach and ethical functioning in the public administration, to which public services contribute through the development and use of an integrated customer-centred information base containing information at municipal and water utility level. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's look at the second topic, the VIKKA, the changes to the national public-credited water facility cataster. The VIKKA is also one of the new IT applications through which it provides information to those responsible for the water utility sector and water utility providers to make decisions. VIKKA is the National Development Programme Office Nonprofit Kft. implemented in the 2007-2013 programming period. However, the problem of public credibility in the established database has not been addressed to date. It is necessary to amend the legislation in order to avoid the existence of an irregularity procedure in this respect and the obligation to repay it. The third major issue of this bill regulates smart measurement. The proposal establishes a legal framework for an intelligent network model project in the field of water utility services, based on a national plan which forms part of a derogation application approved by Commission Implementing Decision C(2012) 8675. The implementation of the sample project is carried out by KOM, i.e. Central Smart Measurement Ltd. You're gonna end up dead. This will also make electronic metering available in the water utility area after the electricity sector. I think we think this is the way of the future. In addition to the above, the submission includes CCIX 2011 on water utility services. minor clarification amendments to the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the bill because it makes a significant contribution to the policy, strategic and development policy base of the water utility sector. In addition, by adopting it, bureaucratic burdens will be further reduced, and this is fully in line with the objectives of the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.20]]
u2017-11-03-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-03-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, there is a law before us that, if the experience of the last seven and a half years with your governance were not behind us, it would contain very, very good things. But he is behind us, and the experience is great, so we always have reservations about all the projects in which the names of the people highlighted by Fidesz appear in the area, because at least we know that in these cases, somewhere money, public money will disappear. The first thing is to modify the water utility system. It is, of course, a good and fair thing that we need to create a map, an IT system where it is visible, on request and accessible to everyone, where, what channel network, water network is located in the ground, where is the connection, on which street the connections come, in which apartment what pipe has been introduced, in what age, in what condition. This is obviously to be assessed, and when a construction starts, this can be very, very helpful in network development. Unfortunately, only by destroying the water utility sector, these companies, which perform the service themselves, and otherwise maintain the whole system at local level, and when an error occurs, they do not have much money to create this system to generate, assess, upload and do it. Neither their people nor their budgets allow that. Therefore, we should find a way to resolve this issue so that water utility providers have the opportunity to do it, so that they can upload the data to this system, so that there is a person who can do it, because at the moment there is a shortage of workers, because they cannot pay so much labor for water utility companies. That is why I say that there are basically good ideas in this. You could do it right, only in most cases, as they say on the market, you need money to make this system normal. I think you know that the water utility sector has been eviscerated enough over the last seven years, and this government has done everything in its power to destroy this sector as much as possible, as many public services related sectors. Smart measurement is, of course, the future, that's not a question. This is also a very good project and a very good idea, which I think should be supported, as the Union also supports these projects. There's a lot of money in there. The municipalities where the sample projects will be implemented have been selected. If we look at this smart grid sector and the young people and less young people behind this project, if we didn't find the name of Balázs Fürjes again in this sector, I would also say that we probably want to do something good. Unfortunately, the name of this gentleman already marks a little questioning in man's mind whether it will not happen that European Union money or public money will not be used again in the way it is written in the book. That is why I say, of course, that smart measurement could be used very, very well not only for the water utility, not only for the electric, electric sector, but also for the transport of waste, and a project could be created that works in all public services areas. All we can see, and our fear is that these sample projects will be about nothing but hundreds of millions of forints for a sample project to assess whether this thing is feasible. But the implementation will no longer happen, but will only assess in the project whether it is feasible. From now on, money will be spent on studies, money will be spent on marketing and communication, and, as we can see, on the good salary of the supervisory board and board members of the companies set up in the settlement. Unfortunately, I found this, and that's what I saw in Paks when we announced that the company that was going to do this project in our city was illegally set up. It was very outrageous because the idea is good, the project is good, the whole thing the Union has invented for this, a very, very good story, this future, it should be in all areas. It's just that when you see that the goal is to put people close to some of the governing parties on the side more important than to make the story work well, you're desperate. That is why I say that it is very, very disappointing to see good aspirations, that this legislative amendment proposal has good ideas, things that are inevitable, inevitable, we have to do; one needs money and the other has money, and one has one thing: we must not steal home. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-03-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Földi, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-03-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, One of the important objectives of Fidesz-KDNP governance is simplification, digitalisation, removal of bureaucratic barriers and elimination of duplication. We want the institutions and citizens of the state to be able to deal with their affairs as quickly and effectively as possible. According to the proposal before us, the project "integrated public water utility database" is named by the Government Decree of the Operational Programme for Public Administration and Public Service Development. Its purpose is to create a database of information generated by water utilities and public authorities. The VIKKA is the national public water utility system register. As a result, up-to-date information will be available for all municipalities and water utilities in the country in the future. It also has a considerable advantage that it can be used to establish the price of water and sewerage charges in a more credible way than ever before. The bill before us serves a number of goals together. In the 2014-2020 programming period, it will be implemented in the framework of the operational programme for public administration and public service development, which considers its primary objective to make more extensive use of electronic administration and IT applications in the public administration, helping to reduce the deadline for administration and to make more informed data-based decision-making. The other important part of this proposal, which Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Fidesz lead speaker spoke about, concerns the VIKKA. I do not wish to mention this in particular, because both of them have fully exhausted this issue, as well as in relation to smart measurement, as well as the technical amendments which constitute CCIX. Laws are being amended. The legislative and even country-organizing principle behind the proposed amendment is that the state should not complicate, but deal with, our common affairs. This includes integrating databases that have been created in several systems, so far isolated from one another, in parallel with each other. This allows responsible decision-making, as we live in a world where all decisions at state level must be based on the analysis of a multitude of public-credit information. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction supports the draft law before us, and I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-03-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-03-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are broadly united and that the speeches that have been made so far are united in the fact that we can find the ideas that can be supported in this bill. The establishment of an integrated public water utility database is an essential task, without which it is not possible to plan, develop, allow or control in the water utility sector. I think that this database should exist a long time ago, but, of course, the fact that it is now being created is welcome, and it gives us pleasure if it will perform its function to the appropriate extent. [[9.30]] The explanatory memorandum states that up-to-date information covering all municipalities and water utility systems in the country will be available for licensing, monitoring and control authority tasks covering the water utility service, for financing, planning and systemic organisation tasks of supply, maintenance and development. So it lists a number of tasks and areas where this database can help. Obviously, in order to know where networks, water utility networks are available, where they may be connected during an investment, a map database is required to identify what water utility systems we have. Unfortunately, these water utility systems are largely outdated, old, especially for drinking water pipelines, which are continuously maintained and developed, but mostly fire-fighting. After all, we find that where the wires are so old that there is a pipe break, these wires are replaced in a single section, and then a larger investment does not follow, but when another pipe break occurs next to it, they are replaced there. And so gradually, the entire plumbing network will be replaced piece by piece. This obviously means a much higher total cost if it does not cause a burden on the service provider's budget at the same time, as if a larger line section were replaced in the context of a large investment. These wires will have to be clearly replaced sooner or later, because they do not meet the requirements of the modern age, and the use of many years has already aged them. So, obviously, we also need a system, a database that tells us where these wires are, what age, what capacity can be attached to them. Now, for example, in many places, especially here, on the shore of Lake Balaton, the apartment houses are multiplying with mushrooms. They're based on the existing infrastructure of a city. It is known whether a sewage network or a drinking water pipeline can withstand such a load that there is obviously a database where we can find out what lines were installed there at the time. So there really are many advantages to its use. It is also written here that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office is able to provide credible data on this basis to determine the official price of the water and sewer charges. Public pricing is also very important, allowing the public to obtain adequate quality water supply at appropriate prices. In terms of price, it has been mentioned several times here in Parliament, although this bill is not intended to remedy this, it should be noted that there are differences in the prices of drinking water and sewerage services in certain areas of the country. Up to multiple times the price per cubic metre of drinking water in one part of the country, as in the other. To unify this or at least to approximate it, there have been ideas or suggestions on how to resolve it. But obviously, for those who have better prices for drinking water, it must continue to be at this price, so it is only possible to lower the price of drinking water that is more expensive. And for that to happen, of course, the source must be created, and the state must be able to provide drinking water at even more favourable prices, and that there are no such inequalities depending on where someone lives geographically, in which rural areas, and even more than one must be paid for these services. By the way, smart measurement systems, which are also mentioned in this bill, could be a solution. After all, optimising consumption could also lead to a reduction in the fee in the longer term. The construction of these systems should, of course, also be strongly encouraged and supported by Jobbik. We hope that these so-called smart measurement systems can be developed as soon as possible in the country as possible or throughout the country, in the water utility sector as well as in the electricity and other sectors. After all, it can lead to very important and huge savings if consumption is coordinated along demand and, of course, control is facilitated by these centralised smart measurement systems and the database itself, which is created by the entry into force of this law. So, overall, we have a bill that we can support. We would like the government not only to try to improve the situation of the water utility sector by taking over mandatory directives or establishing a database, and thus improving the supply of water utilities to the public or the quality of service, which is, say, essential for the sectoral design of a water utility, but also to make sure that the state of the network itself can be further optimised so that the newest, more modern network is available, that the ageing equipment and wiring can be replaced as effectively as possible, and that citizens in the country have access to the right quality of service. The right to good quality drinking water, I think, is a fundamental right that all Hungarians have the right to have, regardless of whether they live in a lowland farm or in a big city. Everyone needs to get healthy drinking water. Unfortunately, this is not the case at the moment, because in many places in the Great Plain, arsenic drinking water and other pollution are a problem. If there is no sufficient quality and amount of fixed water, wellwaters with nitrates may be a problem. Of course, the water utility service is now, especially in terms of drinking water, almost full coverage in the country. I'm saying it's almost because there are exceptions in the farmland world. However, the waste water supply, the sewage transfer, the sewage connection still leaves a lot of demands. In many places it was not worth doing this in the context of a large central waste water investment project, especially where there are scattered small-wall areas, and it cannot be economically solved with a central system. The use of home-made, individual equipment should be encouraged in order not to release uncleaned waste water into the environment. Of course, this is an environmental interest, this is a water management interest, and this can also be supported by a water utility database that contains all the data that justify and support where these fixed installations can and cannot be centrally implemented and where they should be replaced by local, individually supported equipment, even by state aided local facilities. Jobbik supports the adoption of the legislation. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-03-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have the opportunity to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr István Józsa. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are happy to register that the digital world, even in a more common language, has caught up with the main water supply, i.e. water supply and sewerage systems. The fact that the transposition of a 2012 Commission Implementing Decision is only now included in this law is not so gratifying. So we can say that this is a small step in the direction that Hungary can also benefit from the advantages of today's computer and digital world in the field of water supply and the operation of sewer systems. In addition to the fact that the government is lagging behind in this, let me add that there is also a fairly visible discretion in its entire operation. While at the top level, I am thinking of János Áder's worldwide proposals, which are very good, by the way, for the evaluation of water and the importance of water management, however, domestic practice follows these principles very closely. [[9.40]] So I would like to suggest to the government that you do not stop this work that lies ahead of us in the field of water, water utilities, because this is suitable for a small part of the delays, and the rest must be completed afterwards. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-03-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you if anyone wishes to speak in this debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes, from the MSZP Group, for a repeated speech. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-13	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to these problems. After all, every time we talk about the water utility sector, we also need to talk about the state of the water network in Hungary. And as wealthy as a settlement is, it can be seen today that, unfortunately, our network is quite old, there are serious problems with the service as well. After all, we should be able to renovate these networks, which is what we should be able to give money to the service sector, because most of these water utility companies are local government-owned companies. And because of what I have said, that these companies have been eviscerated in recent times, it makes it very difficult, for example, to report an error, which would be a small thing, or when a resident has any problems with the water utility service, detects a pipe break, or has any such problems at home, it is difficult to turn to customer services. It's because there's very, very little money left in this service sector, so where's the big cut? It's probably the customer service. And in many cases, when the resident calls the customer service, the phone rings in a completely different settlement, so they can't even identify where to go to solve the problem. Unfortunately, we also have to wait days to solve the problem, which is why I think we should talk more seriously about this sector again. We should think about the whole law. You introduced the utility tax, and it hurt them the most in this sector, because they are the ones who have to pay the highest amount of money, because they pay this tax compared to the length of the network. We should find a way to make money for improvements, so that the pipes can be replaced, so that the sewer network, the sewage network, the drinking water network can reach all residents, because unfortunately, even in my constituency, there is a city where not all areas of the city have a drinking water network. I think this is the 21st. This is why we should now really use money to put these networks in order, to exchange pipes, to make enough money for customer services, to make it easy for the public to report a problem as soon as possible. Let's have as many people who can get there as soon as possible with the right tools to correct these mistakes, because this is one of the really annoying problems. The population feels these problems, because it is typically the sector they use every day, and it is typically the area that makes them angry and insulted in everyday life. Therefore, I would like to say once again that the creation of smart networks is a very, very good idea, smart measurements are a very, very good idea, but the problem is that we are still facing fundamental problems in Hungary. We should also solve these problems and find the money and the solution to them. Thank you.
u2017-11-03-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member István Józsa of the MSZP Group has also applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-03-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise that the issue of water, the issue of water supply, the question of sewerage is indeed one of the key elements of Hungary's further life and development. So the fact that you have, in fact, brought here this bill on water utility services, as a result of the austerity caused by the harmonisation of EU law, I think it is very right. So this is certainly commendable, but everyone must see that it is far from enough. When this bill concerns the inclusion of the operator of the integrated public water utility database among those organisations which, to the extent necessary for the performance of their tasks, can know the duration of the water utility map register free of charge, this sentence immediately covers the existence of a digital form of the water utility map register at the appropriate level, because unfortunately it cannot be considered complete in Hungary today. The operator of the database should be given a level of technical, computerisation that enables it to perform such interactive tasks and provide information. This is only external consumption by consumers, but it is at least as important to provide IT services to operators themselves, water utilities. The safety of water supply and the quality of supply can be significantly improved if the design of preventive maintenance, if the improvements are based on a truly live, up-to-date, well-functioning digital database, which includes not only the map register, but also the status of the pipeline section, when it was built, when it received the necessary periodic maintenance, when the next maintenance is planned. Thus, the entire technical and technological process, which in this case is not only safety but also a very strict quality criterion to ensure that drinking water is healthy, does not by chance involve anything - as at the time in Miskolc, where materials that were not included in the drinking water collection area during a major rain - so these drinking water quality issues can be improved by developing the digital background. This is to improve the quality of domestic care, but the government should sacrifice money, as said here in the presentation of my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, it is now placed there as a package to do it, but what, when, nothing can be seen from this. I accept that it is not a law that has to provide for the implementation of these obligations by those concerned, but that the government should ensure that, in an official price system, when these providers are even charged with a special tax, it is properly provided for such a forward-looking task, because otherwise the whole system will deteriorate if it has to be taken away from somewhere else for this digital development purpose. So the essence of my thought, which I started, is that there is a need for an improvement that this law sets the way for. The government has to provide resources, adequate money, and then not only can the implementation of this bill result in the improvement of the quality of domestic service, but I also believe that knowledge can be sold on the world market in Hungary. So if we want to unite what President János Áder proclaims worldwide and really sees Hungary as a place where the issue and problem of water is dealt with in substance, then it is possible to add to it the knowledge and product that has been used on the world market, which has been close to the Hungarians, because Hungarian water management professionals were known in the world. [[9.50]] With this digital development, this portfolio, this knowledge profile, can, in my view, be substantially supplemented, and thus can be achieved to rise to the level of modernity that keeps us at the forefront. The Hungarian Socialist Party, as a party committed to modernization, considers it very important that such legislative initiatives should not remain on paper, on the standard described by law, but actually be put into practice. This is precisely the purpose of my comment, so that we do not stop at the Hungarian application, we will realise it as soon as possible, and we will also give you the opportunity to develop improvements that will enable this knowledge to enter the world market. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-03-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Lajos Kepli of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is worth a few more words, in any case, for a two-minute speech, that the proposal also states that this is a proposal that was closed in 2015 and aimed at the creation of the VIKKA, a HUF 10 billion proposal. In fact, this whole bill was created and lies before us at the moment in order not to have to repay this HUF 10 billion or at least only part of it if the audit reveals irregularities, since the management of the data has not been properly resolved. Hopefully, this bill will settle, but as a matter of fact, if the project was completed in 2015, then why is this bill before the House now, at the end of 2017, what has happened over the past period, and why only when there is pressure from the European Union to the government in this regard. After all, someone here has undertaken a project through a tender worth HUF 10 billion, it is well-wrong, somehow implemented, but the conditions of operation are no longer available. Nevertheless, they took the money, the grant, which was HUF 10 billion for this tender amount. The system, on the other hand, is inoperative without proper management of the data by the government. So, basically, there was a two-year break during which we didn't know what had happened, and obviously the tendering control procedure didn't happen. Our question to the government is whether, in this context, it is expected that either part of the aid or all of it will have to be repaid to the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-03-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much to my fellow Members for the valuable contributions that have been made. I am also very pleased that my fellow Members realise that an integrated IT system as a fund is essential for the management of a HUF 4-5 thousand fortune. Over the past few years, this is the sector that has received the most development innovations, as there has been more than HUF 2 thousand billion worth of new development, and not only the settlements over 2 thousand inhabitants equivalent, but also the settlements below. If they have joined forces by area, these developments have reached smaller settlements. I would also like to mention, for example, that in the rural development programme there has been an invitation to tender up to HUF 150 million for settlements with limited or low consumption. The sector itself has made a lot of progress in terms of development over the last few years, and we meet all the requirements. But let's not forget one thing: it's a system. The system means a continuous operation. This continuous operation lasts up to a hundred or more years. If you think about the fact that this existed before 2010 and some problems were still raised, I think it is right to think if all the factions are equally in favour of this draft law. Certain parts of the program have already been completed, but just because improvements are ongoing, these parts have been discussed continuously. For example, the MEKH has been consulted as an office. Therefore, there is no failure to introduce the system, but rather to link the two systems, complementing the components needed for smart measurement, and linking the energy office with the National Development Programme Office and the system with the various water utility providers, and now the legal, legal, legislative and operational basis has been established. There is no problem with the system itself, it is very necessary, as my fellow Members have said. The government has an important purpose, and this must be highlighted. It shouldn't be maintenance, there's something wrong, and then suddenly there's a renovation, but it's not a renovation anymore, it's a reconstruction, and it's a replacement at the end. That is why this information system is important for the management of the sector's accurate wealth, its systemic approach and its management. How interesting the different situations of water utility providers are, at the moment, according to the energy office, the public water utility sector, based on the MEKH register, works with an additional 2 billion profits for all water utility providers overall. What is worth considering is the reason for these differences. Yes, we are thinking about that, and we have a strategy in the Ministry of Development, which can ensure the development ideas and the functioning of the sector. Very important information is that development rolling plans are continuously prepared by all municipalities, all water utility providers. This is something that we note and see, but the legitimate or unjustified subject of these, from what source and how it is implemented, this system will also provide a sound basis for this area. Smart measurement is a priority sector. My fellow Member, Anita Heringes, mentioned the waste area. In the field of waste, we are already in the process of smart measurement. The system, the new system, is in the process of being introduced. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, although it does not belong to the law, that in recent years the content of applications, the maximum level of soft costs, has been regulated by this government. We were just the ones who wouldn't let 50 percent of a tender pay for soft costs. The rules can be looked at, its numerical and content can be verified. Therefore, I would just like to point out that this IT development package will also be put into a real fund, a functioning, public-credit fund, and a manageable fund for anyone. I would like to say once again, what is very important is that this IT system creates a basis for the water utility sector that is capable of providing both operational and development basic information and is capable of creating a functioning and sustainable water utility sector in the long term. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-03-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. We now have a general debate on the bill on legislative amendments to extend young people's start-up support until closure. The government referral is T/17997. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. [[10.00]] First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Ágnes Hornung, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2017-11-03-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, As part of the action plan to encourage children, the government decided to extend the support of young people to Hungarian citizens living abroad. According to this bill, the scope of the Act on the Promotion of Young People's Life is therefore extended to children born after 30 June 2017, who are not resident in Hungary, who have Hungarian citizenship, as well as to children living in Slovakia and Ukraine who have a Hungarian identity card, taking into account national regulations that do not recognise dual citizenship. In two ways, the new, extended group of beneficiaries living in a life-style other than Hungary will be able to apply for 42 500 forints of start-up support. On the one hand, at the same time as applying for maternity support, young people will automatically receive initial support. On the other hand, it will be possible to apply for support at consulates or one of the Hungarian Treasury's customer services separately from the request for maternity support. Like those living in Hungary, foreign children can have access to support after they are 18 years of age, which until then will have an interest rate of inflation. Parents and relatives may now decide to open a Start Account for their child. The Treasury automatically buys and places baby bonds on the Start account of this amount, which interests on inflation by 3 percent, and the State also grants a maximum of HUF 6000 per year of the 10 per cent of the family's contributions. So once again, two constructions will be extended with the current bill. On the one hand, support for young people's start-ups and, on the other hand, the Start account, which is automatically linked to the purchase of baby bonds. They are now extended not only to people living in Hungary, but also to children born abroad. The procedure is the same in both cases, so the opening of the Start account is based on the same procedure for Hungarian children living in Hungary and abroad. Regardless of the extension of the scope of entitlement, it is necessary to amend the Law on Young People's Initial Support for Further Processes, Provisions and Clarifications. A number of amendments have been made to this in addition to extending the scope of eligibility. I would basically highlight two of these. One: in order to make the construction easier to see, the bill contains a change in the name of the treasury deposit start account to a life deposit account; and secondly, in order to avoid the Hungarian Treasury having to manage an increasing mass of outstanding and inactive accounts for many decades, the bill states that if the Treasury does not have a deposit account within 5 years of the age of 18 of the young adult, i.e. until its 23rd birthday, and does not request the payment of the State aid, the deposit account will be closed by the Treasury. That is what I wanted to say briefly about the proposal, and I would ask this House to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-03-22	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-11-03-23	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports any proposals that encourage children from Hungarian families. As part of the action plan to encourage children, this bill aims to extend the start-up support and opening of the Start account to Hungarian children who are not living in Hungary. We fully support this initiative, because for us all Hungarian children are equally important and equally important. All children and all Hungarian families are part of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, The baby bond introduced from 1 December 2013, officially known as the so-called start-up aid, is that the sums accumulated on the start-up securities account opened for the newborn at the Hungarian Treasury will be invested in sovereign debt with a maturity of 19 years. The savings thus accumulated, increased by interest of 3 per cent, may be taken up by a child aged 18 years and allocated to statutory purposes such as studies, housing, starting careers or having children. When the child is born, the collection account will be opened automatically, to which the central budget will pay an initial grant of HUF 42 500, which may be supplemented later by the opening of the Treasury Deposit Start account by their own payments. The budget will then also provide a subsidy of HUF 10 per cent and a maximum of HUF 6000 per year in addition to the interest rate. The purpose of this amendment is to extend the baby bond to children of Hungarian citizens living abroad and to children with Hungarian certificates. According to the government's decision, the baby bond will be available from 1 January 2018 for the children of parents living or temporarily working in other Member States of the European Union and having a permanent Hungarian nationality. The measure has the same objective and aims at achieving the same range of persons as in the case of maternity allowance. The Hungarian state and the Hungarian nation provide cross-border care for Hungarian mothers and Hungarian families who do not give birth to their children in Hungary. Extending the range of rightholders will be regulated in the future according to the bill. So far, the Fétam Act has applied to children of Hungarian nationality residing in Hungary. According to this proposal, young people will also be entitled to start-up support for children who are not living in Hungary as well. The requirement for submitting the claim is the Hungarian citizenship of the child, except in the same way as the maternity allowance, in view of the national regulations which do not recognise dual citizenship, children living in Slovakia and Ukraine who have a Hungarian certificate. On the basis of the above, the circle is therefore extended, as is the case for the beneficiaries of maternity aid, as follows. Hungarian children living outside the territory of Hungary will also receive this support, who are Hungarian citizens who are registered under Hungarian registration rules, and those who are not Hungarian nationals, but who have Hungarian certificates, i.e. who live in countries that do not recognise dual citizenship. The initial aid changes in this amendment will be as follows. The Hungarian people born and living abroad would have been entitled to the sum of HUF 42 500 from 2018. However, since the start-up allowance is automatically opened at the same time as the application for maternity allowance, and the circle entitled to maternity allowance as of 1 January 2018 represents children born after 30 June 2017, the start-up allowance will be extended to Hungarian children born and living abroad after 30 June 2017. The process of applying for start-up aid will be as follows. For the new extended category of beneficiaries not living in the territory of Hungary, the bill seeks to establish special procedural rules for the application, assessment and payment of the aid by which the right holders are able to obtain the aid they deserve in the most simple way possible. [[10.10]] Accordingly, in the case of the establishment of maternity allowance, young people's start-up support is automatically granted at the same time. This is why, among other things, we have adapted the circle of beneficiaries to the category of persons entitled to maternity benefits. In addition, the proposal also provides for the possibility to apply for first-time support separately from the application for maternity support, at consulates or at one of the Hungarian Treasury's customer services. A specific form for this is set out in the NGM Regulation on certificates and data reporting related to young people's start-up support. In addition to the granting of maternity support, the Treasury shall act in the proceedings concerning requests for the opening of a separate life deposit account, as the Secretary of State has explained in detail. Changes to the opening of the Start account. Parents and relatives currently decide to open a Start Account for their child. The Treasury automatically buys and places baby bonds on the Start account of this amount; the State pays a 3-percent interest rate on inflation, plus a maximum of HUF 6 thousand per year of the 10 per cent of the family's contributions. In the event of the opening of a start-up account, the start-up allowance is transferred to the Start account for children living abroad, born after 30 June 2017. The proposal also establishes the conditions for opening the Start account for children living abroad who were born before 1 July 2017 and are not entitled to start-up aid. These Start accounts can be opened with an initial deposit of HUF 25,000 as well as non-life support, i.e. domestic children born before 1 January 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group, as I said, is very emphasised and considers this proposal to be a very important bill. As part of the Hungarian nation, we look at Hungarian families across our borders and the children of Hungarian families across the border. Our care covers not only children living within our borders, but all Hungarian children, as it is also our interest in national politics. On this basis, we propose to Parliament that it be adopted. I hope this becomes a national matter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-03-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-03-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The main point of the proposal is that baby bonds can also be used and used abroad for children born outside the border. To this end, they introduce the concept of "domestic child" and " foreign child." A foreigner is a child who is registered at home, or a non-Hungarian citizen who lives in the neighbouring states and has a Hungarian passport if he loses his nationality in the case of taking up Hungarian citizenship. Similarly, the concept of parent is separated. A foreign parent is the parent of a foreign child. It should be noted here that I think there will be problems in the system because today in Hungary there are cases where children born abroad are unable to register at home for a year, so that the system needs to be helped; or if, as we have heard from the press, there are times when they have returned from abroad, taken a job abroad and decided to come home, then there are cases where they cannot obtain the necessary documents at home for more than half a year, because the authority is not able to manage the system. This proposal applies essentially to children born after 30 June 2017. In their case, the first transfer amount is automatically transferred to their account. For those who were born before, only if the parent paid 25 thousand forints, as for children before the introduction of the baby bond in 2006. A new element is that the Treasury sends out annual notifications of the amount of state aid credited to the start-up account of foreign children. I should note here why children born in Hungary do not receive such notice, how much money is in their account. It would be worth considering that the parents at home should know that. Previously, the accounts of children who moved abroad were passed away. The restrictions previously in force for foreign settlements will now be deleted, and the invoices will remain active in the future, and the payment can be credited to them. It is interesting that the justification does not mention the important amendment, which, in turn, has been published in the press, that the restriction that money can only be spent on studies, housing, starting a career, creating the conditions for having children or for other statutory purposes will be abolished. It is new that young adults can apply for the payment of the amount in the start-of-life escrow account until they are 23. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, as part of the action plan to encourage children, the government intends to extend the start-up support and the possibility of opening the Start account to Hungarian children who are not living in Hungary. Here, I would like to stop for a moment at the program to encourage children, because here I would like to give you some information. In a few years, one of the biggest and most important problems will be in Hungary, although I believe that it is still a real problem, but the demographic situation will be even more serious. Let me list some data. In 1975 - if you look back 100 years at birth data, but I chose the highest one directly - 194 200 children were born in Hungary. When we look at the data, we generally see that the birth of male and female children is almost balanced. The shift towards girls means 1-2 percent, 51-52 percent in proportion to 48 percent of male children, but consider that the birth rate is 50-50 percent. Then we can say that 97 120 male children and 97 thousand female children were born in 75. I chose 75 because this age group is now at the last moment when she can have a child, 42 years old. But look at another figure: In 1998, the first year of birth was under 100,000. Then 97,304 children were born, which means 48,652 boys and half girls. I'll tell you why these data are interesting. Then, in 2008, 99 149 children were born again. It was the last year when we got close to 100 000 births, and in 2010 it barely exceeded 90 335, which was two years after the crisis. You can see that the birth rate has dropped dramatically immediately. Then, in 2011, 88 689 children were born. This is the year when we were in unprecedented depths in child birth, and then we managed to turn it back to 91 thousand, and in 2017 93 063 children were born, and this year the indicators show that there has been a decrease again, and the number of children will decrease again. The reason why these data are interesting is that if I look at the 85, 130,200 children were born. This age group is now 32 years old. If you look at the data that women's birth periods are being delayed, it is this age group that is now having the first or second child. In 1990 - 27 years of age - 125 679 children were born. I'll be back in 1975. In 1975, 97 thousand women were born, 62 thousand women in 1990 and 44 thousand women in 2011, which means that if we multiply them by 1.5 times the current birth rate, around 2035-2041 67 thousand children will be born in Hungary, 65 thousand and 67 thousand children. [[10.20]] If there is no very drastic positive intervention on the part of the governments, this will be the tragedy of our nation. And in recent years, despite the government's communication, he shouts every day that they have spent billions of dollars and spent so - no, my fellow Members, their family policy has not been successful. It has to be said that even if you look at the numbers, it will not succeed. And then we have to go back to what this bill was for, and it's going to be the year of elections 2018 and we should give some support to young people who have fled our country, who, though, have left Hungary only for adventure, but we know very well that it's not because of an adventure, but because of living problems, and even according to recent surveys it's the political situation that doesn't like the present youth and the Middle Ages; it has to be said that every six Hungarian born children are born abroad. In fact, Debrecen is no longer the second largest Hungarian city, but London, because more Hungarians live in London than in Debrecen. In essence, we can see that this form of support, with which we can agree that all Hungarian children should receive this benefit - we can say, in essence, that this form of support was introduced in 2006, at the time of the Socialist Government - could have been done a long time ago, compared to interestingly doing so before 2018; some positive improvements should also be made for families living outside. As more and more children are born abroad, the budgetary impact of the measure is not irrelevant either. Of the families living abroad, only Hungarian citizens registered 14,000 newborns in 2016. This is not the total number, because we suspect that the actual number is much higher; I would add that it is quite difficult to say, because it is difficult on the part of the government, in many cases it is necessary to sue the data. With a written question, I have done so many times myself that I wanted to know how many children have been born abroad in recent years, and the answer I received from EMMI was that they could not say that KSH can produce data compared to this. That is why we do not understand, and I can say that in most cases the government itself is preventing us from getting data. The government increased the budget estimate for 2018 by HUF 600 million during the negotiations on the bill with reference to the extension. At the beginning of September, I asked him in my written question what was the situation with the promised measure, and they admitted that the matter was still under preparation. They added that the government considers self - care an important goal and that parents take care of their children. The Fundamental Law also provides that parents have an obligation to support their children, that the child has an obligation to support their parents; and the government's duty - this is no longer in the Fundamental Law - would be to ensure a livelihood that everyone can guarantee this fundamental right to their parents and children. The government considers it a tool to support young people's start-ups and start-ups, which was renewed in 2012-2013 in two steps. First, in October 2012 he closely linked his design to sovereign debt purchases, so that the state guaranteed commissioner took an investment form and, second, from December 2013 onwards, the Start account was linked to a 19-year-old sovereign debt and a doll bond, which made it easier to manage the Start account, with interest at least until the 18th birthday of the child. It is interesting, although it is fully eligible that the limit that is already difficult to verify - I have just mentioned this - is that the money can only be used for studies, housing, start-ups, the creation of conditions for having children or for other purposes laid down by law. However, it is surprising that in other areas, such as the poorest children's benefits, the government gives everything in vouchers, takes full account of everything, but in the case of benefits reaching the middle class or in the case of benefits reaching the upper class, we are no longer so hard on these forms of support. We will submit an amending proposal, which concerns the fact that the first accounts were opened in 2006, but this amount, 42 500 HUF, has not changed since then. For someone who raises a child and follows the course of this account, we can say that by the time the child reaches the age of 18, this amount, I do not know what it will be enough for, so in our amendment proposal the first reference amount would be set at HUF 65 thousand, and the additional two reference amounts would be set at HUF 70,000 for children born in 2018. I think that if the government wanted to support and support children in the same way, it would also have to pay attention to the fact that since 2006 we have been doing the same thing as the family allowance, that it has lost more than 40 percent in real terms, and that it would be considered on the part of the government to support this amending proposal, so that we do not start these children with the HUF 42 500 bill. In fact, it should also be considered how many children have been born abroad in the last ten years, it should be considered that this should not only follow the children born in mid-2017 or 2018 but should also be done retroactively, who were born abroad; however, according to harsher calculations, we are talking about 800-900 thousand Hungarian compatriots who have left the country because of improvements in their living conditions, according to a slightly more favourable calculation, we are talking about 600 thousand people. Once again, I would like to mention that in 2018 - this is the latest survey - if there is no change of government in Hungary, another one million people want to leave this country. I say: The tragedy of our nation will be these birth numbers, we need drastic positive interventions, because these numbers - men cannot yet give birth, only women can do this, thanks to God, if men could, they would take this away from us, but thanks to God, they do not know, but the data I have listed - they predict that we will not be able to achieve success in the birth of children, if we cannot recall our wandering Hungarians abroad, and if we cannot pursue an education, social, economic and health policy in this country that people feel safe and that this country deserves to have a child. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-03-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-11-03-27	Mr President, Dear House, These debates are in a very strange mood, where we seem to be talking about baby bonds, the extension of the Start account, but at the same time the vision of national death appears before us, and I hope that this can be avoided and the current situation can be turned into growth. But what we see is that we cannot necessarily look at a child's birth as being worth having in this country; if our ancestors had done so over the centuries, we may not be able to discuss this very important issue in this Parliament today, in Hungarian or not. By the way, I welcome and see that a good part of my fellow Members, a measurable part, takes the fate of this issue to their heart, but I must put it back in the sense that 27 years of ruined, betrayed economic policy and politics in Hungary have created the situation in which we are now, and no one can sing praises here. So I absolutely support the extension of baby bonds, the extension of all similar solutions to Hungarian families living outside our current borders, to Hungarian children born and born there, but at the same time I see that the government is cosmetic again and not in a very brave way. So he is doing the same thing as he did with regard to the VAT reduction of basic foodstuffs, that he did not make reductions in full and not in a way that spared the Hungarian people's wallet, but chose a group of popular product groups, such as 5-6-7 percent of the consumer basket, and then tried to sell this minimum concession as a systemic facilitation through various media tools. [[10.30]] You can see that this has failed perfectly. Moreover, there was a VAT-reduced product whose price has increased. They denied it for a while, and now they're not even gonna make a secret out of it. Here, too, I see that we are in the middle of such a demographic disaster, a demographic winter, that, in fact, an aspirin is being given to the dying person with this proposal. And I'm gonna support this. So I do not see any argument that could be argued here, because I think that normal Hungarian people clearly want to subject all the instruments to growth and, by the way, to the common sense of Hungarians, which should affect everyone here, in this country and outside our current borders. But what I can see is that on other fronts, this government has been in debt for the last eight years, and now for the past eight years, every government has been in debt. He remained indebted to the example of a drastic reduction in the VAT on child - rearing articles. Today, the VAT duration of child rearing articles is the highest in Hungary throughout Europe, and therefore goods are also very high. However, if we are serious about facilitating childbearing and strengthening the willingness to have children, we would be obliged to intervene on this front. It is incomprehensible to me, I hope that my fellow Members will respond to why this government has not been able to allocate funds here in eight years. Well, it wouldn't cost that much; we're actually talking about a few billion or 1-2-10 billion forints, which, at the same time, appears to be a formidable burden for families raising children. I am not saying that this alone is dissuading anyone from having a child, but this is a multifactorial issue, five to six factors interacting with the influence of one person taking the second child or the third child after the second. I would add that in certain segments and social groups the question is whether the first child will be born, and that is the real amazing problem. And if we are talking about families living beyond our current borders, then it is worth splitting the issue in two ways. We have separated parts of our countries, where our Hungarian brothers live regardless of their choice, struggle against assimilation efforts and others, take on Hungarian children and are taught in Hungarian. In the meantime, we see that Hungary's current government in the Bethlen Gábor Fund has, in the majority of the last seven years, allocated less money than, say, the amount of the British refund, of which this government has also supported the various farmers and farmers of Britain in the budget. But I could now bring here in a very demagogic way the planned total expenditure of moving to the Castle, which is also higher than the total amount of resources to support Hungarian families living in all the parts of Bethlen Gábor Fund in one year. So these brutal comparisons should be pretty sobering. What I would like to say is that, with a prudent fiscal policy, hundreds of billions should be assigned to other legs of family support, because I not only support the system of family tax incentives, but I would not only keep it, but also extend it in an obvious way. At the same time, there is a point, a segment that is completely mistreated by the government. In an amazing Pharisee way, he refuses to realize that the home creation crisis, the housing crisis, leads to the non-birth of thousands of Hungarian children every year. And they stand up to the government's state ministers and ministers, and they tell me the amazing insanity that none of them could even explain, that they believe that Hungarian people typically love their own property, and that is why, let's say, instead of a rental program, they want to support those who want their own home and - I add - can acquire it. Of course, everyone loves their own property, but they forget that by extending the CSOK this way, they support up to a quarter of the society whose financial opportunities allow them to acquire their own property. At the same time, there is a huge crowd of people in Hungary who would have a child, but at the same time they are unable to acquire their own living space, their own place of residence, they would move into a rental apartment, but they do not have such an affordable price on the market, because in Budapest, you can't really find a normal size and quality apartment if you have a child in it. In the meantime, we see that the rental segment has been completely neglected by the government, which has enough money in its draft budget. What good is a rental program, the concept of which Jobbik puts on the table every year, and the government sweeps it every year? Obviously, through the construction of tens of thousands of apartments, this is long-term, so ten thousand is not meant for a year or two, but if we can only make a few thousand a year, let's say we can press 1 percent of the total property stock in addition to rent apartments, it will bring measurable and noticeable reorganization in the decade-long horizon. All this gives guaranteed orders to the Hungarian construction industry, Hungarian small businesses and suppliers. Central acquisition of materials can be controlled to the greatest extent possible by including domestic raw materials in all of this. Up to one-third of current market prices should be allowed to be used for the development of rents, and the property concerned should be owned by the family after a period of 8-10 years. This could therefore significantly slow the emigration spiral, for tens of thousands of people leave this country in order to acquire future property from their outside salary. The only process the government has not modelled was that a good part of the young people who find their calculations out there will stay out there, and after a while, they won't be able to come home to this country that you've made depressed in part. The other factor is that if the Hungarian youth working abroad finds his life mate there, because we should not be hypocrites, there are plenty of situations like this, if a child is born there, there will be a kindergarten, a kindergarten, where socialization processes start, and the Hungarian family moving back from it will be very, very rarely created. These processes should be dealt with, this is a matter of parties, an extremely important issue of national strategy. So I acknowledge this ambition, this cosmetic gesture, and I support such gestures. At the same time, I would like to add that I am incredibly lacking in your system the courageous, spirit-brave steps that could substantially increase the number of living births, slow down the emigration spiral, and once again, with a rent-apartment program, say, placing an order for the Hungarian construction industry and Hungarian entrepreneurs. I am confused about how the funds needed to start this system, up to HUF 100 billion, cannot be reduced in their own budget. With Jobbik's experts, we have found some 600 billion in your budget that will either be isolated for completely obscure purposes or - forgive me - net craps or pyramid constructions, prestige investments that would not be needed in Hungary, and by far I am not just thinking of some of the stadiums, because support for mass sports, let us say, would be an elemental need. But we see a number of other plans that could be reviewed. Or even a real framework of ministries that would not affect the wage framework of Hungarian workers, so it would not put jobs at risk, but it would have amazing potential for young people to start their lives if they dared to change. I very much hope that, in addition to ensuring our support for this draft, we will have the answer to what steps this government is willing to take in the middle of the demographic winter, since there is no more important issue in Hungary's life at the moment. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2017-11-03-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have a two-minute speech. I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr István Józsa. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It feels really good for me, a member of the MSZP faction, that the baby bond started by the MSZP government is so nicely embraced by the otherwise right-wing conservative, national radical, sometimes fascistoid current government. So baby bond in some segments, unfortunately, is becoming more and more narrow in segment is a good thing. Now my problem is that, as a result of government policy, this segment is shrinking, where it is good, because those who benefit from the government, the top 10 percent, they do not care, so they do not bother because they are independent, two thirds of the population, maybe 70 percent And it's hard for him to do anything about it, because at least he can't add it. According to a very meaningful OECD survey, 70 percent of the Hungarian population can't handle an extraordinary expenditure of EUR 200; therefore, not only does it have no savings, but it can't even handle such an extraordinary expenditure. [[10.40]] So again, 70 percent doubt how they can use this baby bond, at least in the narrowed-down range that the law allows, and there is the top 10 percent. So there's still a population of 20-25 percent that it can really bring closer to its goals. In view of this limited content, I would like the government to find a remedy for this. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-03-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has also applied for a two-minute speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-31	Mr President, Dear House, I agree with my fellow Member from MSZP's professional point of view, but at the same time I would warn him against stigmata, especially in a debate like this, because in the midst of the division of similar stamps, you and the Fidesz governments have sabotaged the renewal of the Hungarian family support system over the last 27 years, so I do not think that this will lead to a solution; it would be more if we were able to clarify professionally what the purpose of this discount system is. I have already said a few words about our brothers outside our borders that, yes, it would be very important for them to develop forms of support, where appropriate by boosting the Bethlen Gábor Fund, that can make everyday life easier for families. I know the fund is about something else right now, and it works differently, but its extension is not impossible. At the same time, it would be worth developing a motivational system that could help emigrated Hungarian families to return home in a measurable way. Obviously, it won't be the bean bond. I do not think that we should argue along a doll bond that this is a socialist or fidesz achievement, because we do not even look at which government was registered when it was introduced. If there is a good system, it is worth arguing about the extension of it, the allocation of budgetary resources. I also support the fact that this amount should be used only in terms of studies, housing, starting careers and creating conditions for having children, but there would be an elemental need for answers to the fact that this government is so timid in the home creation segment, i.e. for other legs, why it has not dared to move in recent years. The extension of the CSOK can also be sold to the more fortunate social classes, but let's face it that the base where the greatest willingness to bear children is actually not affected at all. These must therefore be answered, and I believe that fair professional responses could be surrounded by support from all sides. I very much hope that these are still available at this stage. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-03-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I speak again from the MSZP Group to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-33	Thank you. I'm trying, Mr. President, to be very brief. Just for the record: though, if we look at this proposal, we can see that Zoltán Balog was the Minister of Human Resources and that the Committee on Welfare is discussing this amendment. I would like to note that neither the EMMI is here to see a representative nor any of the members of the People's Welfare Committee participated in the debate. It must therefore be said that family support is so important for the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government. We would have expected him to take part in the debate on behalf of the EMMI and on behalf of the People's Welfare Committee. I know it's Friday, I know it's fall break, but I think that's why we're getting paid to do our job in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-03-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mónika Dunai has also applied for a repeated speech from the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Let me first respond to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's previous speech. I think you shouldn't insult the two secretary of state here. I think that on all matters, at least one of them will be able to answer all the questions, whether they are your questions or the questions of our fellow Members. I think it is the proposal that we are discussing. Allow me to decide which Secretary of State of the Government will be sent to which meeting. I'm sure you'll send State Secretarys who are competent in everything, who can answer all the questions that can happen here at today's meeting. Well, basically, I'd like to respond to opposition speeches from the lead speaker group. It is very good that you mentioned the achievement of a demographic turnout in both opposition groups' speeches. However, they both gave the impression that this was the only slice of the Hungarian government's family policy measures, that the baby bond would be extended to Hungarian children born across the border. We not only use this one tool, but yes, we must admit that with all possible means, small tools are also a tool, fewer tools for people serve the way and serve the purpose of yes, more Hungarian children being born within our borders and outside our borders. To mention only the most important things, let us not go past family support such as the family tax scheme or the ged extra, and within the ged extra... - and then you tell us how Hungarian families can raise children, the MSZP has just cut down the Gyed and the child system. And we have also made it possible that where there are children under three years of age in a family, whether in the case of two or three twins, it is possible, however, to use the amount of the lawn for several children, or even to go to work next to it, if you decide to have the support. I think that we must use every means necessary to ensure that Hungarian families feel the security behind them. The Hungarian government is not only behind families at the level of words, but also at the level of budgets and laws. Also very important elements of our family policy measures: we know very well that we have made nursery and kindergarten meals free for almost everyone, 90 percent of parents, or we have now made textbooks free until the first grade of high school. Another thing that is very important is that families have jobs, so that unemployment is as low as possible. Well, in this, too, after 12 percent unemployment during the socialist period in a few years... [[To intervene:]] There's eight years and seven years here, yes, that's fair enough. In seven years, we reduced unemployment to 4.3 percent. The other thing that Daniel Z. Carpathian also said was the CSOK and the creation of homes. Our very important objective is indeed to get them home, because this is the only way families will have children if they have financial security, so they have a job if they receive those assistance benefits in raising children, in crèches, in kindergartens, in schools, which the Hungarian economy makes possible, and every year the development of the Hungarian economy is making more and more possible. You have also given some good examples that are worth considering. However, the VAT reduction was not entirely fair to the government, because at first it was a very narrow circle, but then we expanded it, so every year we can see that more and more food and other products are included in the reduced VAT, because this is what the Hungarian economy makes possible. I hope that this process will continue in the coming years and that more and more circles will be covered by 5% of VAT. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély mentioned birth numbers. We agree that this process must be stopped, and we also agree that, after stopping it, it must be encouraged to have more children, so turn around this birth rate. However, let us not be unfair to adult women and their families today. I also recommend to you the number of birth rates in addition to mere numbers. [[10.50]] After all, we know very well that there are far fewer women and adult people living in Hungary today. I think the most accurate number is based on the birth rate. It is also possible to see that we have achieved results, and the family policy that the government is pursuing, I do not say that with huge seven-mile steps, but step by step, year by year, it ensures that the number of births in Hungary increases, the birth rate. I'll give you some numbers: 1.23 more years ago, that's 1.49 now, and our goal is to reach or even exceed 2.1 by 2030. The birth rate is the number of births compared to the population in question. Obviously, a small group of women with childbearing potential cannot be expected to have much more children than in the 1970s when very many children were born. These are the measurements where the number of births is well followed as compared to the number of women present with childbearing potential. It is already a political and non-professional observation that I do not know how credible the opinion of the MSZP which whips and criticises Hungarian family policy is. Of course, they have the right to do so, but I think that Hungarian people can see through the sieve not only on the basis of words, but also through their own wallets and their own thoughts. The lead speaker of a party here talks about family policy krach and disaster, where the opportunities for home creation were closed, during which period it was almost impossible to create a home, who wanted to get home, you put them into foreign exchange loans, from which the Fidesz government's measures helped people escape, you wanted to reduce your lawn, you took a month's wages from people, the prices of textbooks skyrocketed, you almost had a nightmare every school year start, people saved money from August 1 so that they could buy the textbooks, and then we hadn't even talked about the overhead costs. You can see it clearly, and you can see it, even though I say it, even though you say it, it is not on this basis that you will decide who really did it for Hungarian families and for increasing the birth rate of children, but will decide on their own experience. Finally, allow me one more thought. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said that it would be good to have 1 million more Hungarians and not to have less than 1 million Hungarians. With the aim of having 1 million more Hungarians in Hungary, we can agree. Unfortunately, with regard to your politics, this could happen sooner. If the MSZP were to rise to power, I think that in a few years, in a decade or two, there would be 1 million more people living in Hungary, but they would not be Hungarian people, but they would be of uncertain origin, we do not know what identity they are, we do not know where they came from, because you want to implement the Soros plan. [[Dr. István Józsa, as he applauds, Bravo! Bravo! We'll ask you twice more.]] And our goal - it is true that we cannot achieve this in a few years, but we will strive - is to have 1 million more Hungarian people living in Hungary. That's our goal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-03-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would also like to address Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, once again.
u2017-11-03-37	Mr President, Dear House, It's hard for me to say this, because a lady spoke before me, and I have to give her respect, and I would like to give her respect, so don't take this as an insult, but bringing the Soros plan here is as subpar as when the MSZP representative stigmatizes and fascists in a debate about our greatest disaster. Congresswoman! So far, in Hungary, you have been the only people who have installed aliens in Hungary in the last ten years, no one else. Well, you, your friends here, sold settlement bonds to strangers. Don't tell me that migrant isn't a migrant because there's a good migrant and a bad migrant. You, along with family members, have sold tens of thousands of residence rights to strangers in Hungary. If you're going to bring this here, you're going to accept the consequences of any reprisals. But I don't want to talk about them in the first place, because you were absolutely right to eat the MSZP economic policy or MSZP-SZDSZ at the time, I agree with him, although the minimum wage was tax-free for a long time, which you then abolished, and also put families in a very difficult position with the tax credit, which, by the way, most children are born in Hungary. Even during the economic policy cycles of the MSZP, which I considered a traitor in many ways, there was not 27 percent of the overall sales tax in Hungary. So you have started a very specific race as to who is going to strike the Hungarian families more. And as the impression of the Bokros package can be seen on the chorus, so the impression of that one or two years shows perfectly how much fewer children were born after that, so I have to say that you can't see the sharp increase you liked to talk about now either, because there was a last year of finally growth, and then ten out of the twelve months of the following year, the number of living births decreased in each ten compared to the previous one. I would very much like it to be true what the representatives of Fidesz say about the continuous slow rise, and I support that. I support every step of the government that leads to this, but that's not what the statistics are showing right now. Even unemployment has been mentioned here. Well, how has unemployment decreased in recent years? The fact that the Hungarian economy was spinning in hyper-mode and that there were so many active jobs in the market? The fact is that at three points you have been able to forge statistics, on the one hand, the student workers have been included in the scope of active workers with the same weight as anyone else on the labour market, including public workers who, where appropriate, work only one hour a week, since this is the lower limit of statistical measurement, the one hour a week, so at the moment, the rule that determines how this statistical line should be compiled, and thirdly, some of our countrymen working abroad have been counted here. Of course, unemployment is lower if hundreds of thousands of people flee abroad to look for jobs and do not look for jobs here. Of course they don't show up here in unemployment statistics. It's very simple. If 2 million more emigrated, unemployment will be even lower. So let's not start with these amazing economic policy 1.0 mistakes, because they're not giving themselves a good certificate, they're confirming the not-or-otherly misconception that they simply don't see some basic processes. Indeed, the aim is to get Hungarian people home, but we still have no answer as to why the home of our own is the strongest home, a rental, a rental cannot be a home to which Hungarians have children. At the moment, children often fail to have children because they are forced to live with their parents, they cannot separate, they cannot try themselves, they can start their own life in a rental apartment, which then, if mutual satisfaction arises, can become their own property. Look at the Austrian system, the German system, there are plenty of elements that can be taken over very cheaply with multiplier effects that spin back into the budget within two cycles. So there would be plenty of opportunities. With regard to VAT reductions, I do not want to be incorrect and I do not say that there has been any change, but I say that if we look at the consumer basket of an average affected family, I still do not believe that the product range to which this has been extended is 10%, and since it has not been complemented by a monitoring system that monitors it, examines whether traders swallow the difference on the basis of real market processes, or just because they believe that they can do so without consequences, they have not been able to reduce the price. We also see that, of course, the increase in fertility rates is a saving thing. I myself am very happy about this - although I have doubts, because where can we find 2,1,2,2 in Europe? In fact, in Italy, the fertility rate in certain regions with a severe left-wing majority has fallen below 1.0, so on average, one child per family is not born. So this is a vision of Europe's extinction. I really hope the continent doesn't move this way. But you also need to see that the rate will rise in vain if the base continues to shrink. If the number of children can continue to shrink, it is very commendable in their midst if there is an increase in willingness, but it should also be supported by appropriate motivations. And even so, the number of living births required for reproduction will not be created. [[11.00]] So the person who wants to solve this has a very, very serious problem in his neck. I was just whispering here that if everyone does their job right, decisions are made over parties, governments stick to it, no matter what color it is, it'll still take us 30 years to stop the fall - in good times. It's that bad. Therefore, if it weren't for the Fidesz government, I would warn a different-colored government, even a Jobbik government, not to sing praises, because no one here can issue an "A" certificate until this fall has been stopped. And once again, in terms of the number of live births in the last period examined, the numbers decreased in ten out of ten months. This should warn us of incredible restraint. Now should be the time to put together an expert committee, regardless of parties, to make recommendations that everyone will follow for 20-30 years, starting from family policy, home creation, to fix the whole package in the Fundamental Law, and to make sure that its economic legs are also given. That's what we're supposed to do right now. I feel that we are taking a small step with this proposal, but if similar debates with stigmas continue, I feel that our successors will have every right to ask the question: is this what you have done in Parliament when this could have been resolved? Thank you.
u2017-11-03-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Since all the keynote speakers' repeated speeches have been made, I would like to point out from this point that I am making use of the possibility given by the house rules, and that I can speak and speak only in a two-minute speech. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that I would like you to return to what is required by the hearing of the bill, i.e. the amendment of the law on the extension of young people's initial support. I know that there is a lot of room in the general debate, but still, whoever doesn't come back to this, I'm going to take the floor. I am speaking to Mr István Józsa, Member of the MSZP Group.
u2017-11-03-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's strange to me that on this very quiet Friday, Mr. President, he remembered that the house rules...
u2017-11-03-40	Congressman, I'm asking you not to judge me. That's what you're allowed to do under certain conditions. If you wish to criticize my sitting, I shall be forced to withdraw from you immediately and warn you.
u2017-11-03-41	Mr President, I ask you very kindly to hear my words. I would like to say about the presentation that, on a Friday morning, there is an extremely good opportunity to explain this. As regards the narrow content of the proposal, it is that, together with the extension of the baby bond, since it was initiated by an MSZP government at the time, and we consider it very important to care for and extend it, a little, to say, it tastes campaigned that it will be extended to Hungarians outside the border less than six months before the election. Even though I personally am extremely committed to those beyond the border, especially to our brothers in Transylvania and Szeklerland, even because my family's name - giving member left Szeklerland more than 200 years ago, and I still personally support a student who needs it in his higher education. With that, there's no tuition in Romania. Let us say that there is no tuition fee in Hungary, and it is linked to the baby bond through the fact that the tightening and tightening of the use of the baby bond also includes the use for educational purposes. Here I would like to criticise the fact that it is not called tuition fees in Hungary, but it is cost-effective studies, but unfortunately more than half of those in higher education have to pay tuition fees. So they're billing him for the reimbursement, which is about 300,000 forints a half year. So, if someone can pick up the whole thing and don't give it up, he's doing tuition studies, then in good case, it's enough for a half-year, which he's putting together for 18 years under the baby bond. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that there is something to be done. If budget ratios were to be put together with the country's development in mind, much more would have to be sacrificed to education and higher education. The Tao, which is believed to be private money, we are sure is public money, because if it wasn't given in Tao form for sports and other purposes, it would be the revenue of the budget... - so they spend as much of the Tao, they let us go from the budget to higher education. I think we need to change that. The future of the country, the educational support of young people today, deserves much more. This ratio, that about half of higher education is tuition-paid, i.e. cost-effective, in my view untenable, is contrary to responsible thinking about the future. Thank you very much. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2017-11-03-42	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech will be held by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-11-03-43	Thank you, Mr. President. I got the hint, so I took out my 15-minute speech. I just want to respond to a few things. More than 50 percent of those under the age of 18 want to leave our country. I have just mentioned that if the elections don't turn out that way in 18, about 1 million people want to leave this country. My colleague Mónika Dunai is right, there is no demographic change. Or you could say that birth numbers in Hungary continue to be tragic, because they have not reached a turnaround with the family support system that they are shouting in our face every day through the media. That is why, if we bring up the nursery, my fellow Member has forgotten to say that this government has paid for the cradle - it has paid for the cradle. I've already said a lot about textbooks as a practicing mother. My dear fellow Member, believe me, we would prefer to be paid for it than to give children such textbooks, useless, brainwashed textbooks. Besides, I'm telling you, in most cases they're useless. We start the school year by erasing for a month, if there's any point in erasing. My dear fellow Member, Do you think that a first-grader, second-grader, third-grader, fourth-grader should learn from textbooks where you can't pull me down, write into it, and the rest, and say the problems that we experience as a practicing mother year after year? I would just like to say that the concept of mamahotel is becoming more and more common in Hungary. At the age of 30, most of the young people are still living at home at the age of 30, and in most cases not because they like to live with their mother or father so much, otherwise we hope that they have it, but they can't even dream of a new apartment or even a separate apartment in Hungary. So you can argue here, I think the ruling party should be a little low. I was shocked to hear his refugee comment. I didn't think intelligent people would sink this far within this wall. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-11-03-44	Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, State Secretary, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Madam Secretary. [[11.10]]
u2017-11-03-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, I would like to shed some light on the subject and some facts, which I do not think has always been the case in the debates before me. First of all, the exodus. This is basically a generational problem now, as a generation of people who speak languages, who can go abroad and work there alongside free movement of labour, free capital, through free borders. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They go without language skills!]] By the way, this is not a Hungarian phenomenon, it is also happening in the other states of the European Union, and this, as we look at, is periodical, there is migration and there is migration, and this is something that can be encouraged by appropriate measures. The other issue, which is partly related to the subject and much more related to the subject, is the question of demography. There was consensus among the speakers that demography is a major problem today. This hasn't become a problem today, it's been going on for years. The fact that the birth count dropped to such a low level was the result of a process. This process was wanted to be stopped by this government, recognised this situation, and taken a number of measures as part of the demographic package that have reversed this trend and helped large families. If I would like to highlight a few of these, a number of measures have been taken in the tax system to help large families, while young people have received support for their start-ups, and I could also mention the benefits of newlyweds. There have been a number of discounts that help to build kindergartens, nursery schools, return to work for parents and mothers. If I mention just a few of the current measures, which have been born in the past year or two, we should not forget the family home-building discount, the free textbook and catering allowance, and as part of the current demographic package, the release of credit, the release of student loans and the extension of the baby bond, which the Parliament is negotiating under this item. Speaking of baby bonds, I'd like to clear up a few misunderstanding things here, or something that didn't quite sound right. On the one hand, I think - and we agreed on this - that this is a good initiative. The fact that there is a start-up support in Hungary is a good initiative. The fact that Hungarian citizens can open a starting account, which the state otherwise invests in baby bonds, is a good initiative. This will not only be possible here in Hungary, but also for those living abroad, so our countrymen who have migrated abroad can use these sovereign debt schemes under the same conditions as Hungarian citizens living in Hungary. If I have already mentioned this, I would also like to make it clear that this bill is a Ministry of National Economy bill, because although it relates to the demographic package, it is still a sovereign bond construction, so the technical details of this are handled by the Ministry of National Economy, and it has therefore been presented to Parliament as our presentation. There was one more topic that was said today, and what I would like to say is to create a home. The reduction in the number of new homes built is due to many factors, but it is mainly due to the crisis, and we have seen that after the crisis the number of new homes built has decreased significantly, so today there is very, very little new housing and the construction capacity to build new homes. This is also a trend that is not a year, not two years to reverse, but a long time to reverse, and it is also an area on which the government has taken a number of measures to help create a home. The most important of this is the family home creation discount, which helps not only demographic indicators, but also economic indicators, but also the number of new homes built. KSH published its statistics on the number of new apartments built just yesterday, which shows that in 2016, the number of new apartments increased significantly, more than twice, and in the first nine months of 2017, by 52 percent, and the number of building permits increased by 33 percent. This suggests that this trend, which has been mentioned here by several people, has already been reversed. As I said, this is not a short-term process, but a long-term process, so this process has started, and in the coming years, the number of new housing constructions will also increase significantly through positive effects. This is supported by a number of government measures. With all this, I think and would like to emphasise once again that what we have on our table is the law on support for young people's lives, it is a good construction, and I would like to ask again and thank you for your support on this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-11-03-46	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The 2011 CIX on the Hungarian Academy of Arts follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/17999. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-03-47	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The bill before you fits into two government programmes at the same time, one of which is the bureaucracy reduction programme and the other is the public collection directorship activity. The purpose of the bill itself is to enable the Hungarian Academy of Arts to undertake an additional task in addition to its public tasks so far, namely to assist in the field of cultural heritage conservation through the provision of various expert and scientific activities. In order to do this, the scientific collections of cultural heritage protection would be reserved by the Hungarian Academy of Arts next to the already existing collection of the Museum of Architecture. MMA intends to maintain, manage and research collections as a budgetary body of an independent public body for those involved in the provision of scientific tasks, with the name "Magyar Architectural Museum" and "Műemlékvédelmi Dokumentáció Központ" and thus expressing its commitment to the history of architecture and the protection of monuments. Dear Parliament, I think it is important to point out that the Hungarian Museum of Architecture and the combined collections of cultural heritage scientific collections remain state-owned, and therefore the public interest is fully over the private interests. In this respect, the Hungarian Academy of Arts will essentially perform functions of trustees and maintenance. In order to do this, it is necessary for the National Assembly to grant their legal authority, which is why the Government asks that the Hungarian Parliament discuss and accept the amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention.
u2017-11-03-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-11-03-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the autumn of 2017, the government decided to place the collections of the Museum of Architecture in the maintenance of the Hungarian Academy of Arts and to assign scientific researchers. On the part of the Fidesz Group, this proposal is to be welcomed and supported because it aims to strengthen cultural heritage. According to the bill, the Hungarian Academy of Arts will continue to assist the cultural heritage conservation with scientific and expert tasks. As an independent public body budgetary body, the Hungarian Academy of Arts intends to maintain the collections in the future, and to participate in the related scientific task of the Hungarian Museum of Architecture and Museum of Arts Documentation. [[11.20]] This also expresses his commitment to the history of architecture and the protection of monuments. Legal authorisation is required for the performance of tasks as a public service mission. Therefore, the 2011 CIX on the Hungarian Academy of Arts is necessary to pass on a public mission from the Prime Minister's Office to the Hungarian Academy of Arts. Amendment of the Act to this effect. The detailed rules and the question of succession concerning the succession of certain central offices and ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies in the context of the review of certain public tasks, as well as the transposition of certain public tasks, are set out in Article 378/2016. it is amended by a government decree. According to which the Hungarian Academy of Arts performs, on the one hand, as a public mission, tasks related to the management, enhancement, publication, operation of publicly available research services, and, on the other hand, contributes to expert and scientific activities in the field of cultural heritage conservation, as well as to the performance of tasks related to the dissemination of knowledge and public education. Ladies and gentlemen, The protection of cultural heritage is a priority, and the Fidesz faction supports any proposal that achieves this goal, which aims at this. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that you also support the bill that has been tabled. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-11-03-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-11-03-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that your calling me a lead speaker is not a prediction that you will not be able to speak to me later, because if 15 minutes would exceed my lead speaker's opportunity, say, 30 minutes, then it would be understandable that I would be called to ignore any further comments, but when I have 15 minutes of lead speaker's comments, just like anyone else's opportunity to comment, who can press the button every time the 15-minute comment is...
u2017-11-03-52	Congressman! You have the opportunity to criticize everything that has been given to me as an opportunity under the rules of the house, and you do not have the opportunity to circumscribe my leadership style in your speech. You have the opportunity to make a point of order... [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] You didn't ask in order of business, so, Congressman, I will no longer give you the floor. [[Dr. István Józsa: What's next?]] I warned you twice, Congressman, in case you hadn't noticed, and a second warning...
u2017-11-03-53	But, Mr. President, you may withdraw from me in my second attempt. That's a first!
u2017-11-03-54	No, Congressman, I can withdraw from the first if...
u2017-11-03-55	This is my first experiment.
u2017-11-03-56	Congressman, let's not argue with each other. I cut you off.
u2017-11-03-57	Well, it's Skandalum! It's Skandalum!
u2017-11-03-58	Have a seat. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if there is a speech. Congressman Józsa, I'm not giving you the floor. [[Dr. István Józsa: I did not deserve the whole meeting!]] As part of this agenda, I do not give you the floor. [[Dr. István Józsa: You never said that before!]] Well, I'll be more specific. I'm not giving you the floor. [[Dr. István Józsa: But there is no reason!]] Congressman, this is not the way to start, but I will not open a debate on this. Go to the order committee, and you'll have to file a complaint. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Next up is the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. Act and the 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/18000. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-03-59	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and attention. The law adopted by Parliament in 2011 on World Heritage determined not only the importance of the protection of the world heritage and its domestic system of tasks, but more than that. It also stated and clearly stated how to contribute to the preservation of the World Heritage Area because of the maximum public interest, and what tasks are associated with this. The preservation of elements of national cultural heritage sets different unconditional obligations. It is worth referring back to the fact that Hungary became a full member of UNESCO in 1985, and since 1987, with the introduction of the sites in Budapest and Hollókő, world heritage sites were established and registered in Hungary. The Hungarian and international heritage and heritage conservation work carried out in the last 30 years are currently ten different sites, of which eight are registered heritage sites in Hungary, as there are two in the capital. These include our cultural landscapes and the historical landscapes that have evolved through the interaction between man and nature, and we are talking about so-called man-made areas, including the historical wine region of Tokaj-hegyalja or the Hortobágy National Park. This includes the various complexes of built heritage conservation, of which I mention only the outstanding ones, such as the Castle District in Buda and the Benedictine Abbey in Pannonhalm. Dear Parliament, Mr President, We believe that the preservation of world heritage sites is in the public interest, and therefore the government also considers it important that the ownership structure of the property in Hungary's World Heritage Sites creates the least risk in terms of the public mission to preserve the World Heritage Site and strengthens it where there is legal possibility to do so, the state as its owner. To this end, the Government initiates the amendment of the National Land Fund Act and the World Heritage Law before the National Assembly with the addition that the current Hungarian State can acquire a pre-emptive right, thereby ensuring that, in the course of land exchanges or sales, where protection of heritage or world heritage is justified, it is possible to enforce it, only by the acquisition of state ownership. This requires a parallel confirmation in principle that the world heritage protection aspect is included among the existing land ownership policy directives, and therefore the National Earth Fund Act would be supplemented with the importance of World Heritage Protection, while increasing consistency between the two laws. We believe it is important to emphasise that the sale or modification of agricultural land and residential property is not subject to this regulation. In these areas, the government intends to maintain the rules that have been in place so far. The right to exercise the right of pre-emption will depend in the future on the basis of the protection regulations of which Minister of World Heritage is responsible, which means that it falls within the competence of the Minister responsible for nature conservation, or falls within the scope of the Minister for Heritage Protection, or its decision-making powers and responsibilities in the future. So, on the basis of what has been said above, I ask the Parliament with respect that, in order to preserve the values of the world heritage, guaranteeing the maximum public interest over private interests that may be contrary to world heritage considerations, ensure and provide the possibility that the amendment of the law also gives the Hungarian government the legal authority to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-11-03-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr L. Simon László. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is short, at the same time important, and I think it is worth dealing with here, but I am also trying to react very briefly to what has been said in my speech as a key speaker, since Mr State Secretary has said all the important things about the bill. [[11.30]] As we have heard, the bill before us aims to further strengthen the protection of areas with world heritage status by means of the installation of pre-emptive rights. The status based on an international convention does not in itself provide any protection to the sites it receives. States Parties to the World Heritage Convention shall ensure the protection of World Heritage Areas. The proposal before us is proof that the government is also taking responsibility for all these areas with the title of World Heritage. We agree with the rapporteur that the right to pre-empt is not justified in the case of residential and agricultural land. We are well aware that the sale and use of agricultural land is sufficiently strict in terms of world heritage areas, and that it would be difficult to introduce both land and residential properties and subsequently enforce such a provision, where appropriate. At the same time, we are all very much looking forward to the regulation with the detailed rules for the registration of the pre-emptive right and the list of properties concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In conclusion, I can say that the Fidesz fraction agrees with the amendments described in the bill. I would ask my fellow Members to support this proposal in order to protect more fully the territories of our country with a world heritage status. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-11-03-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The relationship between the National Earth Fund Act and World Heritage has resulted in an interesting legislative proposal. In order to take care of the world heritage areas in Hungary, there is nothing really wrong with us. It's a very eligible, very good effort. The addition of a new section to the 2011 World Heritage Act, in which the state's pre-emptive right to purchase certain property on the World Heritage Site is fixed, can indeed serve to protect these areas. At the same time, the right of pre-emption does not affect all property located on world heritage sites, except, as appropriate, buildings for housing and land under the Law on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. According to those provisions, property located on a world heritage site in respect of which there is no pre-emptive right of the State does not, therefore, provide the protection that could be expected from this right, the right to pre-emption. The bill also authorises certain detailed rules of procedure to be laid down in a government decree. This is usually normal for a government decree to determine, in order to facilitate legislation, where and how a request for a statement of the right to pre-emption should be made, and for the introduction of the right to pre-emption into the real estate register itself, who should take action, who is entitled to do so, and this Regulation could also specify the exact details of the property concerned, since the law only records the sites of the world heritage and does not contain all the property or the details thereof. This would be good in itself if the gentle reader could not think of what he has experienced here in some of the elements of the Fidesz legislation, so that they not only want to protect the world heritage, but also to create their own Fidesz intervention, so that it is good, to protect this area under the pre-emptive right, to take it out of free circulation, so to speak, of the free market, so as to enable the transfer of state property to other than the market, not to give, to kissers. This is the part that makes this quite worrying. Hungary has been involved in UNESCO cooperation and world heritage cooperation since 1985. It is interesting now because the United States of America is leaving UNESCO this year, so it is a little strange to think about it. There may be only financial reasons why they were the largest contributors, but then there is a need to pay particular attention to how world heritage cooperation will develop further. Among these, which was already accepted, in 1987 the Budapest with the Danube coasts, the Buda Castle District and Andrássy Avenue, in 1987 Hollókő-Ofalu and its surroundings, both of which were cultural in nature, in 1995 the caves of the Aggteleki-karst and the Slovak-karst became the world heritage, in 1996 the thousand-year-old Bencés Archabbey of Pannonhalm and its natural environment, but in the cultural category, in 1999 the Hortobágy National Park, in the desert, interestingly, in the cultural category, in the sixth order in 2000 the old Christian kazamats of Pécs, in the cultural category of cemeteries, in 2001 the Fertő Lake and its surroundings as cultural landscape, and in the eighth in 2002 the historical wine region of Tokaj as a cultural landscape. In addition, according to the latest decree published in the Hungarian Gazette, Hungary will present ten sites among the candidates of the World Heritage List. I would not mention these in full, although it shows how rich Hungary is, despite our puke history, in cultural heritage, which is worthy of protection and can also be a prominent part of the world's heritage. I would just like to say in the headlines: the border of the Roman Empire, the architectural works of the Limes, Ödön Lechner in the spirit of the Art Nouveau, Esztergom and Visegrád medieval Hungarian royal centers, the cultural landscape of Balaton Uplands, the Tihany Peninsula, Tapolca Basin, Káli Basin, the nature reserve of Lake Hévíz, the conservation area of Lake Balatonfüred, Keszthely with the Festetics Castle. Similarly, the network of Hungarian landscape houses was included, which would be of great importance for the preservation of the unique folk architecture, the Mezőhegyes State Ménes estates, the Felső-Tisza-rádi wood bell towers, the Komárom fortress system, the cave system of the Buda thermal karst springs and the prehistoric site of Ipolytarnóc. At the same time, it is completely incomprehensible why the World Heritage Act should be amended now. What I have said shows that this process is thought out year after year, that the care and expansion of the heritage is progressing well. It is not very understandable why this law will be amended now. It is not possible to know exactly what real estate they are thinking about, or, let's just say, they want to take care of it by law, because it will be designated by the government decree. By 2017, Fidesz completely abolished the protection of its own monuments, and closed the collections that form the basis of practical and scientific monument work, the design library, the photo gallery, the library, the archives, everything. By removing the background institution capable of ensuring professional foundation, it has also placed the authorities who had already been transferred to the local construction administration in a completely dependent position. [[11.40]] What real resources does this increased protection have so that, if necessary, the right to pre-empt can actually be exercised? It is not visible how this will actually increase real protection and cultural protection. On this basis, if this were to be found out in the debate - we have not heard such an argument so far - then it would be eligible. In its present form, there is this great question mark as to why this great zeal in this regard is now. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-11-03-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mr László Földi, please.
u2017-11-03-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The 2011 World Heritage LXXVII. The Act not only sets out obligations, but clearly states that it is in the public interest to preserve the World Heritage Area. The amendment of this law also provides for the possibility of promoting the preservation of an outstanding universal value by granting the Hungarian State the right to purchase pre-emptive rights in the course of the sale of land exchanges on the spot, but the amendment does not apply to the sale of land and residential properties, so it leaves the existing practice intact. The amendment gives the State the right to exercise the first local pre-emptive pre-emptive right. LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund The proposed regulation of the ownership structure of the property in Hungary's World Heritage Sites will be strengthened by the amendment of the Act. Although land is not affected by pre-emptive rights under the World Heritage Act, it is included in the land ownership policy guidelines from a world heritage protection perspective. This amendment creates consistency between the Act on the Traffic in Lands of Agriculture and Forestry, the National Earth Fund Act and the World Heritage Act. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP faction supports the amendment of these laws and I call on my fellow Members to support the amendment of this law. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-03-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös of the MSZP Group, please.
u2017-11-03-67	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I just want to say that, in principle, there's obviously nothing wrong with this law, but we don't know what it means. That's one of the problems with him, so it would be nice to know what kind of sales were actually started, let's say, in this area. Private sales, obviously, because basically the state has a pre-emptive right to buy privately owned items from another private owner in order to ensure that protection is adequate there. So that would be good to know what initiatives are in place that generated this law. Because that's why the NFA usually took the land out, obviously, because it usually has a pre-emptive right to do so, and it doesn't need to be sharpened specifically for this world heritage thing, although it doesn't have to be in indoors. So, for example, in inland areas, whether land or parts of the forest, or other things that, say, affect such things - parks, and the rest - this is obviously worth dealing with, and indeed should be dealt with. But let me also say, Mr Secretary of State, that this type of pre-emption right exists, for example, in national parks on their territory, and the whole reason why this story - I know the Balaton Highlands in particular - was to make it difficult to sell small vineyards, for example. 'Cause there was an extra time the national park wrote back to say thank you, but he doesn't want it. Obviously you can't do that - so this is a different situation than where you were talking about it; and you usually didn't ask because you didn't have the money. This is another condition that the source side of this should be added, but the source page can only be discussed if we know what these are. There is no fool who would tell such legislation not to have the state's pre-emptive right in those which are protected not only in Hungary, but also, let's say, on a global scale, but it would be good to find out about the bill because it would be much easier to make a decision then. Thank you very much.
u2017-11-03-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone still wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-03-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Allow me first to thank Mr L. Simon and his representative on the ground and their fractions for their supporting contributions. In the case of Congressman Józsa, it was difficult to decide whether to be supportive or critical. Allow me to answer some of the questions that have been raised, as did Congressman Haughty. On the one hand, real estate for residential purposes is not included in the real estate involved in the pre-purchase. However, where residential property is, say, a separate residential building, the state can influence how the private owner can contribute to it, on the one hand, by building rules and, on the other hand, by inheritance rules. We are talking here, by definition, about larger-scale real estate in the world heritage area, where we create a pre-emptive right. It was just a political observation, I suppose, for your part, that Fidesz here wants to secure anything for himself. However, I propose to the Member that if I can do this without violating house rules, he should have more confidence in his own party for the elections in 2018. We, on the government's side, want to adopt a regulation that gives every government the opportunity to deal with the role of heritage conservation at the moment, so that it can enforce this pre-emptive right. I would like to correct Congressman that there are not 10 but 11 locations on the list. I'll send you the exact list of this on account of your presentation. Congressman Haughty has asked and you have asked for his currentity. Among other things, there is a GINOP contest under launch, which aims to use it specifically for the development and renovation of property in the World Heritage Site. As you know, there are two categories. On the one hand, it is built, and on the other hand it belongs to the category of natural protection, and in particular in Pécs, the problem is that the area of protection of world heritage and world heritage is not clearly separated from each other, so where these areas can be used. The government considered that, if it did so, it would also grant a pre-emptive right to purchase areas falling within the category of non-built heritage covered by the World Heritage Act. However, it is necessary to settle here - and this will be the task of the subsequent government decree - that where the state can enter more steps than it is entitled to buy pre-purchase, what is the strong order among the pre-purchase holders, and also determine the number, the time period during which it is required to respond, so that it can be calculated where they buy this type of area, they will buy and sell that the state is expected to have 21 days - now this is the number in the draft - during which it must respond to this question. I hope I've been able to respond fully, Mr President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-11-03-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. Government referral T/1802. is available on our IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister of State Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-03-71	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again. Today's third government position on a similar subject would take place and the last. Under the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, cultural heritage has the common spiritual value of the nation as a whole. It is therefore a duty to protect everyone, and this is a priority for the current Hungarian state. This obligation requires constant and continuous monitoring of the rules and may and may make it necessary to review the current legislation in force. We now ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and consider whether the law on the protection of cultural heritage and certain related laws are being amended in the light of this monitoring and review task. In its details, the draft law before Parliament aims to amend four laws in total. These are the following: first, the law on museum institutions, public library provision and public education; second, the law on the protection of cultural heritage; third, the APB and the search and identification of personal matters; and fourth, the law on amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the Act on General Administrative Rules and the Law on Administrative Procedure. These are what the government proposes to amend with today's proposal. In most of the elements of the draft, it aims to clarify the law on the protection of cultural heritage, to simplify the rules on the protection of archaeological heritage and cultural property. [[11.50]] Dear House, The recent amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage served to ensure that the protection of archaeological sites could be better coordinated with investment. Perhaps one of the great debates over recent years has been how, how, at the same time, the government enforces the feasibility of investments as quickly as possible, from this point forward, and how the work and opportunities of bodies dedicated to the conservation of cultural heritage are realised. The current amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is primarily structured, re-regulated and essentially continues or closes down in some respects the legislation started in 2016. The essential elements of the part of the bill concerning the protection of archaeological heritage are as follows. 1. The professional activities of archeological tasks can only be carried out by public or municipal institutions entitled to explore, i.e. museums, so the work itself, when justified by different rules, can only be performed in the activities of museums. 2. The professional part of the archaeological task provision is definitely separated, i.e. the completion of exploration, documentation, the provision of archaeological tasks and ancillary activities, such as groundwork and archaeological demolition, which can be seen as requiring much less archaeological expertise. 3. In the future, the Hungarian National Museum will be responsible for coordinating the provision of archaeological tasks. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The reason for the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage to cultural goods is primarily based on the experience of the authorities, offices and clients in recent years. The new regulations are partly aimed at simplification, reduction of bureaucracy in the area of final and temporary export licences, and partly on the rules that have been missing so far, including on the return of stolen artifacts. The aim of the amendment is to make more efficient and rational use of public budget resources, including by broadening the exercise of state pre-emptive rights to protected cultural assets in connection with the implementation of public collections and the National Castle and Castle programme, as well as the provisions allowing responsible organisations to manage state heritage sites to provide for this method of acquisition. The amendment is intended to clarify the amendments to ensure coherent and clear regulation and the provisions authorising legislation. The amendment also includes the imposition of a circling for missing cultural objects, which justifies amending the APB system and the law on the search and identification of persons and things. At these points, we ask for the support of the Honourable Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-11-03-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Our cultural heritage carries the common spiritual values of the nation as a whole, so it is our duty to preserve it. This obligation results in the protection of archaeological sites, the most important option of which is to retain sites physically, and if for some reason this is not possible, archaeological exploration. The recent amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage served to ensure that the protection of archaeological sites can be better coordinated with the preparation and execution of investments, in particular the priority public investment, including transport infrastructure investments of major importance for the national economy. As a result, the structure of archeological task provision has become increasingly complex. This amendment of this Act mainly simplifies the structure of archeological explorations related to investments and closes the transformations that started in 2016. The Fidesz Group supports the proposal tabled, and we agree with its objectives. We support the essential elements of the archaeological heritage conservation part of the bill, which the State Secretary has already described in detail in his exposé. According to the present law, there are elements of the regulation on the provision of archaeological tasks that remain in the future. These include: maintaining the scope of large investments; prior archaeological documentation in case of large investments, i.e. the preparation of an SRD; simplified and complete SRD maintenance; or, for example, controlled official pricing. And there are also the variable elements of the proposal that we also support. These are the following: companies are not allowed to participate at all in the field of archaeological exploration. It is the task of companies: they can only be involved in breaking-down work or in the performance of geothermal and spatial information tasks. The abolition of accreditation rules is such an element, such a variable element of the bill. The repeal of the different rules on the provision of archeological tasks for transport infrastructure investments that are of major importance for the national economy and the inclusion of them in large investment rules is also one of these elements and changes to the current one. These include Budavári Nonprofit Kft. will continue to be exclusively responsible for the preparation of the SRD. The Hungarian National Museum will carry out the coordination tasks, and the Hungarian National Museum will take over the Budavári Nonprofit Kft. the task of carrying out archaeological exploration related to large investment if there is no other exploratory capacity. The Hungarian National Museum and the county-wide urban museums must be prepared for the full implementation of the provisions of the draft law. The reason for the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage to cultural goods is based primarily on the experience of the authorities, offices and customers of recent years. The new regulations are partly aimed at simplification, reduction of bureaucracy in the area of final and temporary export licences and partly on missing regulations, such as the restoration of stolen works of art. The objectives of the amendment include a more efficient and rational use of public budgetary resources. By broadening the exercise of state pre-emptive rights of protected cultural assets, organisations responsible for the implementation of public collections and the National Castle and Castle programme, as well as the management of state heritage sites, will also be able to obtain this method. The amendment also includes the imposition of an APB on missing cultural objects, which justifies the 2013 LXXXVIII on the APB and on the search and identification of persons, things. the amendment of the law. This proposal reflects the common position as a result of inter-ministerial negotiations. On our part, we welcome the consensual reconciliation process, with which the County City Association and county-owned museums, institutions and the Hungarian National Museum are open to this amendment. So the Fidesz Group supports the amendment of the law and welcomes the search for and finding broad consensus with the institutions concerned. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2017-11-03-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go.
u2017-11-03-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have come to a very important item on the agenda, and I am very pleased to be able to express my opinion, because for a nation that has given a lot of money to its past - and this is how Hungarians - the administration, complexity and legal guarantees of archaeological exploration are very decisive. At the same time, over the past 20 years, this area has seen some strange waves. At times, this may have been overexposed; we feel that he has recently received a little less than his weight guarantees. So archaeological tasks have already been separated from archaeological landworks in the course of previous amendments. Indeed, these are two different tasks, and it is difficult to do the other without one. The archaeological task is to explore the archaeological area of investments and to explore the previous archaeological site, as well as to separate archaeological earthwork, both of which are necessary for the provision of archaeological tasks, but not in itself a part of the exploration of the professional work. As explained above, the provision of archaeological tasks as a scientific method can only be carried out by museums in the future. On the other hand, archaeological landwork as a typical construction task is normally undertaken by the investor - let's say it's a professional company; it's not professionally archeological, it's professional landwork. According to the Prime Minister's decision, in the future, not only pre-emptive archaeological explorations, but also large investments under the administrative law, could only be performed by museums, which could only involve public and municipal institutions entitled to exploration in the provision of their tasks, and organisations and companies can no longer contribute to the performance of the professional activities. Archaeological excavation is an essential part of archaeological demolition - the border area of archeology and earthwork - which, however, requires partly earthworker capacity, partly competent museologist. Business companies and companies will be able to participate in this activity, as museums and the Nonprofit Limited Liability Company in Budavár cannot in themselves solve the application or assignment of civil servants of employees who are primarily seasonal and seasonal workers due to changing workforce requirements. So here we have a very serious problem to bridge. The author does not wish to maintain the accreditation. That's an interesting thing. The accreditation of those entitled to explore did not in itself encourage museums, maintenance companies, to significantly or even increase the capacity of their institutions. So, in this sense, accreditation has become unfulfilled with a content. However, according to this proposal, the accreditation of companies is not necessary, given that no more archeological activities, such as the management of archaeological exploration, can be carried out by companies. The accreditation scheme was established on the basis of an amendment of the Administrative Act which entered into force on 1 January 2015. The permits issued in spring 2015 have been issued for three years, because they have not yet fully expired. The present draft is proposed to enter into force after the expiry of accreditation authorisations, thereby providing for a necessary period of preparation. Then we'll see what this will do, because it takes not only time but money to prepare. On the basis of the records of stolen and missing cultural objects led by the cultural authority since 2004, it has already been possible to circumvent several stolen objects. So it's a working, results-making change. In many cases, however, due to the lapse of the crimes or other circumstances, the settlement of the fate of the stolen items that have appeared could not have taken place in a reassuring manner, or only very expensively, such as the Seuso Treasures, because, on the basis of the black box principle, if I did not violate the rules of the house, that I would begin to establish logical relationships, in terms of the timeline, it came out of the earth at some point, became known, and then disappeared from the country. So it must have been an illegal act to be found somewhere abroad in an auction area abroad. But I don't want to get into that right now. The new settlement is intended to resolve such matters by means of international conventions and solutions adopted from relevant EU Community legislation. On this basis, the stolen cultural object which has been recovered should be returned to the original owner by giving the return party compensation if he has acted with due care and caution in the acquisition. Now it doesn't matter what extent and who determines this level of compensation, because it can be proportional to the costs incurred by due diligence, and it can be what the Seuso Treasures are based on the ideal value, which is, of course, a multiple of the financial expense invested in theft. According to the proposal, the foreign lending contribution and export authorisation examines the same conditions in substance and therefore the maintenance of double authorisation is only to the extent necessary, i.e. to the extent necessary. Due to changes in the official organisation of the last period, the State had the right to exercise the right to pre-empt the State. The offer to exercise the right of state pre-emption must continue to be made by the authorities of cultural goods, i.e. the Prime Minister's Office, which is interesting because, in this great institutional cessation action - I do not want to say insanity - these institutions have ceased to exist where they can turn. So now we have to go to the Prime Minister's Office. Who it will be inside, it is difficult to find out for the outside viewer. The Prime Minister's Office designates one of the legacy institutions under its control - the Budavári, Eszterháza, Helikon Castle Museum, the Royal Castle of Gödöllő and the other Nonprofit Limited Liability Companies - or the state public collection. The designated heritage background institution or public collection shall declare the exercise of the State's right of pre-emption in response to the discovery and shall conduct the sale in financial terms together with the receipt of the artifact, or shall make a declaration of resignation if it does not make a declaration within the limitation period. This is a rather high risk, because it is not only a cultural juggling, it is also necessary to measure heritage values, but also to provide coverage in accordance with other legal requirements. [[12.10]] If a person makes a statement without making a statement, another law is violated by the fact that he commits an unfunded commitment, which is also not an acceptable case-law. The designated heritage background institution or public collection informs the Prime Minister's Office of the exercise of state pre-emption rights. It's really good, it's just... well, whatever. So, this doesn't look like it's working. This doesn't look working. In the case of objects not subject to export licences, the authority shall no longer act under the same more time-consuming procedure as the export licence and issue an artefact attendant certificate, but shall prove it by means of a faster procedure. I would therefore like to draw attention here to the increased use of digital technology, as this is to identify what jury opinion has been made and what license can be issued, and it is difficult to do this well with walking methods. So I would suggest that they receive serious computer support, database, photographic, digital identification of these artifacts affecting the national treasure. For the whole presentation, I wish to say that since 2010, the regulation of this area has been quite thrown out, and some legislative amendments have also made little meaningful and harmful changes to the protection of cultural heritage. Where economic and development interests have come before historical and archaeological interests - there has been an example of this - we feel that, if not legally, there is a possibility that historical and archaeological values may be damaged or lost. In fulfilling the interest of the economic lobby, the protection of the archaeological heritage has sometimes been kept to the minimum required by law. It is in the perceived interest of the economic lobby to speed up the protection of archaeological heritage in time and to make it cheaper in money, which is very often contrary to the cultural approach. The MSZP fraction does not agree with the process of undermining cultural heritage to this extent. We accept that there was some bureaucratism in it, so it had to be made faster and smoother, but to this extent, it was very risky. We do not agree that we allow the treasures of our past to be discovered or unexplored to be lost or endangered simply because of economic interests or organisational and investment management problems. So what we would consider necessary is to strengthen the cultural and conservation approach, and we fear that this proposal does not provide sufficient guarantees that our values will actually be preserved and placed in a decent place. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-11-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am asking my fellow Members if there is still someone who wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-11-03-77	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for supporting the Fidesz fraction. I would also like to thank Mr Józsa for reading and presenting the presentation in essence more literally, perhaps more than the rapporteur. [[Dr. István Józsa: I commented!]] Allow me to ask you just two questions. [[Dr. István Józsa: I commented!]] I need to respond and draw your attention. On the one hand, it raised a quasi-problem that the accreditation institution should be terminated. Yes, as you said afterwards, precisely because companies are no longer allowed to do this type of work, but they will be carried out by museums; museums - perhaps in a way that you cannot question - have the professional knowledge and capacity to do this work. I would also like to make a comment about the Seuso treasures, which, according to my historical knowledge, left Hungary in the 1980s. Perhaps with regard to the party of the predecessor of the MSZP, you could ask in-house questions about who knew about this and what the party of state knew about it, and what role the then party of state played in avoiding these artifacts from Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Mónika Dunai applauds. Dr. István Józsa: That was not an elegant remark!]]
u2017-11-03-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I thank you for your day's work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 12:16 p.m.]]
