u2017-05-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. Ladies and gentlemen, The 23rd day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, from 9:50 a.m. to 11:20 a.m. for questions, and from 11:20 p.m. to 12:20 p.m. for instant questions and answers. From 13 a.m., President-elect János Áder will then take a solemn oath. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. I would like to ask the head of the group and the gentlemen to pay attention, because there will be several breaks today, and there will be no problem at the beginning. Dear Parliament, Mr Ákos Hadházy, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Government terrorism. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Hungarian politics, Hungarian propaganda, which is primarily pro-government propaganda, is determined by only one great lie, which is what it has done so far, and this will be the next year, and that is that we do not have to deal with what the opposition says, we do not have to deal with the facts, the real arguments. They're trying to convince their people not to worry about that, because when the opposition comes, there's a lot of refugees and terrorism coming. That's a lie, of course. This is particularly repulsive because when we think about terrorism, there are two things that we can truly associate with and think about: one is violence and the other is death. And if we look at the government's work and look at the government's movement, unfortunately, we can also think of these two things: violence and death. The main topic of my speech before today's agenda was the second, but we cannot go past the events of the last few days and we must also talk about violence. It is clear that the Prime Minister gave the initial voice when he spoke of his itchy palms, and it seems that his minions continue to do so. In the last few days Zsolt Bayer, the owner of Fidesz ID number three, said that if civilians come into Parliament to protest, they must be led out by slipping on the taknyok and their blood, and we have seen that there are already fidesz politicians dragging journalists and practically using physical violence on them. The LMP will propose to include journalists in Btk. among the public-service people. However, what I wanted to talk about is that there is no need to think too much about how government work or government alibi work is related to the death of people, and I would like to set a concrete example here. Fortunately, luckily for all of us, it may not be known how it is, in cancer medicine, there are huge advances in oncology, a whole new kind of cures coming from months to months; perhaps the most promising are immunological methods, when we are not trying to use chemotherapy to defeat cancer cells, but we are trying to use the human immune system to defeat cancer cells. There are extremely successful treatments now. I'm aware of that myself. [[The sound's gonna stop.]] patients with multiple metastatic melanomas are cured; the problem with these is that these drugs are not a few million forints, but many tens of millions forints for the time being. What you need to know is that in order for someone to have access to this until the Hungarian state accepts - so they say, that they take these medicines - they must pay for these medicines, either for the patient or for individual treatment; there are thousands of people who hope for this, but if they do not have many tens of millions of forints, they can only hope for this. This inclusion, on the other hand, is very slow. Somewhere, of course, there is a reason why professional organisations - so far the National Health Insurance Fund has done this, which has been well beaten up at the moment - should carefully examine whether they can be included, at the moment it is four years in Hungary. So there's a new cure, a new medicine, and it takes four years, but it's even worse now that if OEP prints it - or now it's called something else: it's called NEAK, and we can't even talk about social security, but it says - that yes, it's acceptable, then this file gets out of the ministry, and it's waiting a lot of months for the minister to sign it. Sometimes he's in the Ministry for five to six months. It is said to reduce bureaucracy; it is very important to know that there is no reduction in bureaucracy, there is a rise in bureaucracy with this, and after being signed by the minister, it still takes a few months to get these medicines into Hungary and get these medicines. It is not difficult to see that if we seem to do a bureaucracy cut, increase bureaucracy in the economy, and do an alibi steering, people could die because they will not have access to these medicines; a year's delay, yes, it can be calculated, it could be shown. [[The sound system is back online.]] how many people die, and so when we talk about terrorism and death, we also have to think about the government's work. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-08-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You began by saying that there is no real danger that if opposition parties, including the LMP, were most likely to be on government, immigration would not be hindered, but would be allowed to enter the territory of Hungary and Europe in unlimited quantities, as you said in your speech before the agenda; and you said that there is no real, real danger that this would involve terrorism, as you said, honourable Member. I think that if you talked to people and asked them whether there is a connection between unlimited immigration and terrorism and whether there will be more violence in cases where there are millions of immigrants coming to Europe without any control, they would say something other than what you said in your speech before the agenda. What is important, however, is that you have confirmed once again that the issue of immigration is not an important issue for you, and that you would feel free to allow the crowds of illegal immigrants to arrive either in quotas or above Hungary and Europe. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Shame on you, I didn't say anything like that, and you know it.]] But, Congressman, you said that this is a non-existent problem, and that is not what we have to deal with. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy: Shame on you!]] The other part, in which you fit into the thought rhythm of György Soros, which we can see today in Hungary, in recent weeks and months, has been somewhat the main test of the 2018 elections, where György Soros, as in many other countries, has seen footage of this, whether videos or photographs of the Balkan and Western Balkan countries, has tried to assert his interests, trying to advance his political will by creating a chaotic situation in the country, and in this connection they will not be deterred from violence. With regard to Macedonia or other countries, we have seen how [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy is moving out of my seat.]] used even the instrument of violence... Honourable Congressman, I'll answer you! Congressman, I'm going to answer you. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy is leaving the meeting room. Dr. István Apáti: But nobody cares!]] I find it a little odd that Congressman Hadházy is asking a question about taking medicine and the like, and he doesn't even care enough about the answer to listen to those five minutes in this room. [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Dr. István Apáti: You are outraged!]] What we've been listening to here about him. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] Obviously, the LMP pays the most attention to the parliamentary rules, and everywhere it tries to give the highest degree of respect, but does not listen to its own response. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] [[9.10]] It's a little strange to me that he's the one who's been educating us here out of decency, attention, and he doesn't even listen to the answer to his own question or speech. [[Dr. László Varga: Sit down and finish, it will be shorter at least! Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] Nevertheless, I would be happy to say this, because some may be interested, but even from the odd opposition of Congressman Hadházy, that he will not wait five minutes to answer the question he has asked. I think this is a good sign of how, once the LMP is on the government, it would behave both with the electorate and Parliament and with its debate partner there. [[Dr. László Varga: Make a law on how to wear it at a time like this!]] Well, it's clear that violence is part of the Soros organization's battle plan or plan, because they're the ones who try to create chaotic relationships as much as possible, even provoke such situations. As far as the system of drug intake and the functioning of health care is concerned, I think that many people are aware that every year the amount of the Health Insurance Fund has increased above inflation, so there has been a much greater amount of money in health care on the week-to-day basis than the rate of deterioration in money in each year. So there was a larger framework, even for the admission of new medicines, and if we cut off the salo for the authorisation of medicines, we see that in recent years several dozens of medicines have been authorised, dozens more medicines can be replaced or used with social security support by those who suffer from illness, while otherwise marketing their own medicines or the marketing of their own medicines in Hungary has been discontinued, so they are excluded from this list. However, we have also tried to use additional resources to develop hospitals in all other areas. Between 2010 and 2015 HUF 322 billion was allocated to the development of hospitals - this improved the infrastructure - HUF 50 billion for outpatient care, HUF 13,8 billion for eHealth, HUF 13 billion for primary care, HUF 12 billion for the development of emergency care, HUF 11 billion for the development of rescue stations, HUF 9 billion for the purchase of CTs and MRIs, which can also help cure by providing a previous recognition. And I think that if the Member had looked more closely at the authorisation of these experimental medicines, he would also know that in some cases, when there are not enough tested cases, they cannot be authorised by a doctor for professional reasons, but in cases where the treating physician takes this responsibility and agrees with the patient, we allow the use of similar medicines in very many cases on the basis of individual fairness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, applied for a speech before the agenda: "The low-pitched, European values and justice." Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once in Europe, there was a small, stout man who gained popularity with his oratorial talent, demagoguery against certain groups, and attacking external background powers. [[Interview from Jobbik: Gyula Horn.]] This short, stout man came to power and abolished the rule of law, abolished the freedom of the press, perfected government propaganda, built a dictatorship, and dragged Europe into a war of destruction that had never been seen before. Tomorrow, May 9th, 72 years since this horror ended in Europe. That's when Europe learned that that short, sloppy man should have been stopped. Dear Parliament, The 9th of May is also a special day because Robert Schuman announced the creation of an predecessor of the European Union on that day in 1950. This day reminds me of the mistakes of the past and the promise of the future. We remember the past so we don't burn the future. According to the beginning of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the peoples of Europe have decided to share in a peaceful future based on common values in creating an ever closer union between them. With its spiritual and moral heritage, the Union is based on the indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law. Well, there's almost nothing Fidesz can do in Hungary. This does not include violence against women, even if the attacker is a Fidesz politician and the victim is a journalist of 444.hu. This does not include attacks on the freedom of civilians and education, even if they want to drive away the CEU. And this does not include a brisket based on lies, it does not include the fact that, through government portals, the data of Hungarian citizens are transferred to the Russian secret service, even if this is to please Putin the former Soros Scholarship winner, whose first name is Viktor. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union is perhaps the largest undertaking on our continent so far. It is based on the belief that we, as Europeans, can solve problems together as people who want a better life and a better life. Let us make it clear that Hungary has its place in the European Union and not in Asia. It is in Hungary's interest to be at the forefront of the European Union, because those who are left behind will be left behind. That's how the French decided in the elections yesterday. For the sake of the Hungarian people, Brussels must not be stopped, but it must be caught. Dear Parliament, Today we see that, despite its mistakes, the European Union works more fairly than Hungary. From the outset, the principle of the rich has worked in the European Union. After all, the richer Member States put more into the European Union's budget and the poorer Member States take more out. After all, what would be in Hungary today without EU funding? Economic growth would be lower, jobs would be lower, consumption would be lower. If the principle of rich people is working in the European Union, it could also work in Hungary. That's why the MSZP tells us to do justice, pay the rich. Because it's not fair for Fidesz to make the rich pay their taxes to low-income workers. Because it is not fair that the Mészáros in Felcsút is not a stróman.Lőrinc will increase his wealth by HUF 100 billion in one year, while four million people live below the minimum living standards. And it's not fair that three out of four people can't pay for an unexpected expense, while Lőrinc Mészáros doesn't know what he's buying in a given week, power plant, hotel or bank. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the MSZP, it is only fair that anyone who has a hundred million dollars and a million dollars' salary should bear more burdens. If you argue with that, you're on the rich side. Our goal is to eliminate insecurity, the vulnerability of working people. Our goal is to keep more money in the pockets of small-money workers, public sector workers, ordinary people and the proportion of the rich. For our future together, for a fairer Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-08-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In your case on 8 May, allow me, Mr Group Leader, to say that we are interested in a strong Europe, but Europe can only be strong if it builds on the values on which European integration has been launched. It can be strong if it continues to build on freedom as a value, builds on its traditions and is able to protect its communities. So we want a strong Europe, but we draw a different conclusion from that. Because we will not hide, unlike you, that the European Union needs to be reformed in some areas. It is necessary to reform the failed and not focused Brussels policy so that Europe remains the best place in the world. This is why the government has launched a national consultation, in which more than nine hundred thousand people have already participated, according to Friday's summaries. We want Europe to remain strong. [[9.20]] However, your speech has been shadowed by a number of factors which demonstrate that the MSZP has absolutely no moral basis to lecture other parties on European values. First of all, they're putting posters all over the country for the rich! With a password that their leaders are in a lot of trouble. For example, the PM's candidate for the MSZP is diving on coral reefs, wearing a million-dollar watch, and as a left-wing newspaper recently wrote, he denied hundreds of square meters of real estate in his property declaration. Well, that's the unjust, honourable leader of the group. [[Dr. István Apáti: The same as the Toni!]] We're feeling Déjà vu. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Before the 2014 election, people who later found out that hundreds of millions had been parked in foreign accounts were marching on the hunger march. Then let's look at their government ideas. We know little about these things, but what we know is pretty terrible. The contours of the tax lifting plans are becoming clearer and clearer. Your candidate for prime minister, for example, in a TV show last week, referred to dozens of entrepreneurs who would be willing to accept the need to pay more taxes. On the other hand, we are sure that entrepreneurs and people from work in general in Hungary do not want to hear about tax increases. No, because when the left refers to justice and the rich, we know very well that ultimately, the people of wages and salaries will draw the short straw, and the middle class of children will have a whip. Then there's the corruption case. Anyone who has any illusions about the socialists should look at what is going on in Szeged, for example the Seviép scandal, where 11 billion forints had their feet cut to 433 subcontractors. The threads can lead to László Botka and István Ujhelyi. And they even dealt with parking cards, which couldn't have happened without László Botka's knowledge. There's been a procedure in this case. Dear Chief of Staff, I never thought I would quote a DK statement, a DK statement, but Zsolt Gréczy wrote that László Botka, whom you are recommending to the public, voted three times, or three times, the Prime Minister of Ferenc Gyurcsány after the autumn speech. It also shows that the MSZP is now recommending a politician to the attention of the country, who is a symbol of the devastating left-wing government between 2002 and 2010, and who was also an active part of it. I believe that not only we, but also the voters, know this, and they will act accordingly in 2018. By the way, that's how they did yesterday in Debrecen, where the Fidesz candidate received more than ten times as many votes as the socialist candidate. [[Dr. László Varga: And what was in Zuglo?]] who didn't reach 5 percent. I don't know if they were expecting a change in this direction, but the Botka effect is already working. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Celebrate the Jászság, celebrate the Kunság. Mr Pócs, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-9	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Jászság is celebrating, the Kunság is celebrating. Each year we celebrate a memorial day in the former Jászkunság area on 6 May. In 2014 the Hungarian Parliament declared 6 May a memorial day for the Jászkun redemptio. It was a great holiday here in the House. Dr. Tamás Szabó presented our proposal to the Jászság representative, Mayor of Jászberény, by more than thirty members of the parliamentary assembly of the historical Kis- and Nagykunság. The plenary session was accompanied by the Jász mayors, the Jászkun captains and their wives, wearing beautiful jas. The motion was adopted by the House with a unanimous vote. Then the leading president greeted our guests in the gallery, and the representatives stood up and saluted the guests who displayed the Jászság. On the decorative staircase of Parliament, we sang a poem of the song "Hazank this land" in the guitar escort of the joint leaders of the Jászmagyarok: "We don't want anything but to live, / We want to go to Lie down here, / We for Father, sons for us, / To preserve our clan." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and CHAPTER IV Since King Béla, the land of Jászság, Kunság and Nagykunság has been the property of the Hungarian Holy Crown. In 1239 the king settled our kun ancestors asking for admission in the country. He made them a privileged nation, as a collective nobility. After the abolition of the 150-year-old Turkish rule, the autonomy and freedom of the Yaskun were threatened. The treasury was empty. They decided to make money on the territory of the Jászkunsa under the crown. The free jas and kunas have practically sunk into a right, lost their privileges and freedoms so far. Our ancestors did not give up the struggle, and the agreement was finally reached. On May 6, 1745, a privilege letter was signed in which the Yaskuns received their old privileges back. Forints of 580,000 Rhines were the ransom that was paid. For the sake of comparison, I note that this amount was equal to the budget of Hungary at the time. With the payment of the ransom, 3 cities, 22 municipalities, 47 deserts and 10 accommodations were released. The Jász, the Kiskun and the Nagykun district, the center of which became Jászberény, is composed of nine areas, wedged from Heves and Pest counties. The Redemption of the Jászkunság prevented the liberation of the serf by 103 years in our country. By declaring 6 May a Memorial Day, the Hungarian Parliament honors the Yaszkun citizens who have bought back their freedom in an unprecedented manner in Hungarian history. Dear House, Perhaps over the centuries, the message of redemption has never returned to us as it is today, for we live in a time when some believe that power, influence, respect, and love can be taken for money. There are people with bags and there are bag bearers who seriously believe that money is power to destroy a thousand - year - old Christian faith, Christian conservative morality, world view, or straight - up backbone. Meanwhile, they forget that bag people don't give you anything for free or even take it back with interest. Well, for all of us, let's be clear that our jasmines have already paid once. Because of us, what they paid us for. They paid with blood and paid with money. Jasik, kunok, Hungarians can still be an example to the world, Europe and many countries of unity, unity and national self-awareness. The struggle of our ancestors, the redemption, obliges us here today in the Parliament. It is our responsibility to pass on with a calm conscience everything that our elders have left us. For our father, for our sons, we will preserve our family. Mr. President. The Jászkunság is honoured and thanked by the Hungarian Parliament because it supports a commemoration related to the love, freedom, and self-consciousness of the ancient homeland. On behalf of the Jászsok, thank you for the House's great attention. Thank you.
u2017-05-08-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to thank you and to express my appreciation for the fact that you, the representatives of the Jászság, the Jászság and the kun Members, are always sitting on this very important anniversary here in Parliament, which is always carried on and maintained. One of the pledges of the strength of the Hungarian nation is that everyone lives their own identity as a Hungarian, a Christian, a jasmine, a cue. We in this Parliament are proud of that. I believe that Parliament made a very good decision at the time when it accepted the declaration also mentioned by the Member on 4 February 2014, as it established the basis for many future events, celebrations and symbolic initiatives, since Parliament declared that it supports all commemorations, all events related to the ancient love of the Jews and the kuns, their love of freedom, or their consciousness. Already in 1995, the first Jász World Summit was launched, followed by a new meeting every year after that and ever since. This was then on the 250th anniversary of the redemption, and it has been happening year after year ever since. In addition to reciting the tradition of the jaszcaptain election, the Jász anthem was also born, the Great Book of Jászok was created, in which each can rephrase individual messages for later generations, and since 2013 the Jász Museum of Jászberény, which was opened in 1874, is again in urban reserve. [[9.30]] This also helps to strengthen identity and preserve tradition. After all, beyond becoming Hungarian and Christian, the Jász have preserved their original character. CHAPTER XVII By the end of the century, they have been fully integrated into the Hungarians, but their original Jasz or kun status is still being held to this day, as that is what we are talking about here today in the National Assembly. We can also say that they were a very good example of integration, because they were able to become Hungarian and Christian in addition to myths of origin, folk customs. I believe that freedom is an important element of identity not only for the Hungarians but also for the jasers, because, as the Member referred back to it, in 1745, they redeemed themselves with their own money, because they made any sacrifices in order to live independently, independently and not under the rule of the German Order of Knights. Thus Hungary, part of the Kingdom of Hungary, was able to live in Hungary as free citizens, rich, farming people. The presentation of this cultural heritage was also an important part of what was supported by the EMMI and the national cultural basic programme last year, when a major historical song and dance game called Jászok was created. In this he was an important part of the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, whose dancers greatly supported the creation of the performance together with the House of Traditions and the National Dance Theatre. As I said, I think the example of the jasians is a good example of how important freedom, independence, is. This, in previous centuries, 300 years ago, was reflected in freedom of movement, the election of priests and their own leaders, Pallos law, self-jury, duty-free, and one-off payment of national public taxes and the exhibition of 10,000 cavalry soldiers as rights and obligations. But that kind of self-righteousness, autonomy, is just as important to everyone today. That is why we can say that the Jászsek are almost all over the world, but their accommodation area, in the northern part of the former Danube-Tisza region, or in the lower part of the Zagyva river, now covers Hungary and the whole world. Every year I wish you a very nice celebration, and I trust that the jasians and everyone else who lives in Hungary can set this good example, remember it and carry it to the next generation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The strengthening of families is the main goal - for Mother's Day - from the KDNP Group, Member Miklós Soltész applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman, please. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Yesterday, Sunday, we celebrated the mothers. Since 1914 it has been one of the Sundays of May in Hungary since 1925 in the United States of America, our first holiday in their honor. We can't always take on the mothers' struggles, their troubles, and, if necessary, their many, many pains. He can't always take over under the leadership of the family, the community, the whole country, the state. But in many ways, for their efforts and struggles, a government, a leadership, can help, facilitate through the support system, or make their lives difficult and impossible. As was the case at the time of the Balliberal Government, their women's policy, their mother's policy, was destruction, whether we think of the Bokros package or the anti-family measures of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. On the other hand, the Fidesz-KDNP government and not only the government, but everyone in its policy, whether indirectly or directly, has taken a series of steps to help mothers. I would just like to list some of them without detail: the possibility of pensioning for women 40, family tax reduction, introduction of ged extra, introduction of higher education lawn, restoration of home-building benefits, nursery development, job creation, and therefore support for women's employment are becoming increasingly positive in the social environment. As a result, I have to say that, after all the steps in all ages, birth figures have increased, the number of marriages has increased greatly over the past years, the number of divorces, thank God, has decreased in large numbers and decreased by 25%, from 40,000 to 30,000 abortions. Unfortunately, there are organisations in society, thinkers, who question the role of mothers and women, or imagine the role of women in a completely different way. I'd like to tell them that pro-abortion is also an abortion survivor. The natural alien distributors of gender theory were also born from a male and female relationship with a mother. Those who support this pseudoscience as a teaching material also teach, write and accept a degree in it. As is also happening on the CEU, for example, where you can find interesting diplomat work such as.Game with identity, i.e. a study about the sado-mazo community in Budapest, or another, to create and exist - the experiences of young feminist men in Iceland, or a third, the queer theory and the Koran - how do non-heterosexual Muslim men in London express their sexual narrative? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. LGBTQ, we could continue, XYZ, who knows what abbreviations and words are behind - that's not interesting. It's crazy. But I'm sure those who haven't voted for it in seven years, the MSZP, the LMP, and I'm gonna add that Jobbik doesn't retire women in their 40s, and that's all gonna be abolished. Just as the Balliberals abolished home creation, forced people into foreign currency loans, they would do so now. It was abolished in the past, and that's what they would do in the future, the family tax relief. Billions were taken from families in the past, that's what they would do now. I'd like to erase the ged extra, as Zita Gurmai said. If the MSZP is on the steering wheel, will the ged extra be eliminated? The Socialist MEP Gurmai Zita's answer to the question was: of course. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The 2018 budget strengthens families, thus reducing the difficulties and burdens of mothers. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports family support measures and therefore supports and supports the 2018 budget with a good heart. We hope that the world will not come, which many, or not many, but some would like to see in Hungary, in this region, too, so that there will be no such events as those around the country yesterday, when the families were greeted, the mothers were greeted at many, many places, in the presence of many, many tens of thousands of people. And I hope there will be pictures like yesterday after the victory of the girls in Győr, when the playful mothers, along with their little children, celebrated that beautiful success. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ms Katalin Novák, State Secretary, replied to the speech before the agenda. I'm gonna wait for him to put his microphone on. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me respond to Congressman Soltes first and foremost as a mother and then as a representative of the government. Thank you very much for putting this very important issue on the agenda of today's meeting, recognising and stressing the importance of this day's work. Mother's Day is also a special day for us mothers because it gives us the opportunity to thank our own mother at the same time for all the love she has given us from our conception. At the same time, we mothers can feel the love of our own children even more strongly on this day than on everyday life. For what is it about the founding of a family, what is it about having children, if not primarily about the fact that the family is a resource, the family is a source of love? The place to celebrate Mother's Day is primarily in the families, but this day is also a good opportunity for many times to express the importance of mothers and grandmothers to the Hungarian civilian government, as well as fathers and grandfathers, so families in general. Congressman Soltés has already presented the measures that we have taken by the government to recognise families, as he himself has been an active part of shaping and developing these measures. I would like to draw your attention to a few other aspects. [[9.40]] The first question is, as is often the case today, the issue of migration. I think we do not have to present the phenomenon of modern-day migration, illegal migration to anyone today, and everyone in Hungary knows it. But what, in fact, is the European response to illegal migration largely about? This is what Europe, affected by demographic crisis, is looking for a solution to population decline, a lack of labour force. What is the Hungarian answer about? The Hungarian response is about showing that it is possible to grow young from internal resources, that it is possible to recover from the demographic crisis by strengthening Hungarian families. That is what we will prove to Europe, that is what we will prove to the world, and that is what we will prove to opposition representatives. There are also positive signs in 2016, although, as Mr Soltés said, we are facing a demographic crisis that has lasted 35 years. The year 2016 was a positive year from a demographic point of view, i.e. in every respect of the state of the family, I can say it was a success year. The number of marriages was at the peak of twenty years; between 2002 and 10 the number of marriages decreased by 23 percent; compared to 2010, the same number increased by 1.5 times, while the number of divorces decreased. Childbearing was also at a peak of 20 years, and let us say that this meant the birth of 93 100 Hungarian children within our borders last year. That's five thousand more than it was in the lowest year. Infant mortality reached the current minimum last year, the number of abortions and abortions was also the lowest, and natural weight loss also decreased by 16 percent, to be exact. We can't sit back, we can't calm down, with the demographic crisis, we've taken on the competition or picked up the glove, but we can't sit back, because the desired goal is to have 2-3 children on average, all families are still away. At the same time, one of the very important points in the debate on the budget is to offer families a predictable, predictable future. This is also what our governance is about, and this is also what it is about, that the 2018 budget is already ahead of the Members, and we offer the Hungarian families a long-term, stable and predictable future. In the 2018 budget, HUF 1900 billion directly supports the support of families. It is recalled that this is HUF 966 billion more, i.e. twice the size of the same estimate in 2010. This also shows our commitment, which is also a good measure of our commitment. Family tax breaks continue to increase, so it is good news for the two children that next year their monthly savings will be HUF 35,000 due to the family tax reduction. The amount for CSOK and home creation will continue to increase, now the number of CSOK users exceeds 42 thousand, and the dream limit or threshold of 100 billion HUF has been exceeded. The provision of free textbooks is also increased, and the appropriations for children's meals are also increased, as the amount for extra or any financial appropriation is not reduced, and all of them are even increased, where appropriate. As far as values are concerned, just two more thoughts about that. Value neutrality is not value. It is not the value neutrality that we have to bear in mind when supporting families, but we have to take into account the values that the majority of Hungarians represent. Our aim is not to deny the differences between women and men and to remove these differences, but to promote cooperation between women and men. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] As long as the civilian government has the opportunity, we will always have the support of families in mind. I ask you to do the same when you vote 'yes' or 'no' for the 2018 budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-16	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The need to amend the basic law. Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We feel the need to briefly review the current situation of immigration problems, the challenges of the future, but before that, we need a brief reflection to understand and understand the logical chain. You started the most expensive referendum campaign of all time against the 1200 quota launched and planned by Brussels last year and conducted Europe's most expensive referendum campaign. This was done by the fact that this quota of 1,200 people was also supported by your delegate in Brussels. They did so by knowing exactly that we never contradict anything, but at home, they're starting a huge freedom fight at the level of communication. It is typical of your fight for freedom that, since our membership in the European Union, they have never exercised any veto rights, and have never attempted to engage in any meaningful confrontation with Brussels decision-making. Jobbik has made its position clear from the start and consistently represented it, namely that neither poor nor rich migrants should be allowed to enter Hungary. We know the arguments between the parties, we know the positions. Obviously, you have always twisted it consciously and angledly, and obviously in the answer you will stress that we have not voted in favour of a certain amendment of the basic law in October. We didn't vote, like we said a million times, and I'm going to tell you why. Because you have left a not-so-small gate, but rather a huge gate, which has given you the opportunity to come from a third country to this day. How justified we are by life, I would like to emphasise once again that the two numbers should be placed in the two pans of the imaginary scale. One is that Brussels wanted to place 1,200 people in Hungary in terms of quotas, and how many people have been admitted with the help of settlement bonds, how many people have been granted residence permits. Well, I'll help you, they sold 17,000 settlement bonds until early March. If we add family reunification, then since you are constantly hiding the real numbers, we can only estimate, but we are sure that at least ten times the quotas in Brussels have been allowed. Now, this is your freedom fight: if anyone has money, it doesn't matter which country, from which part of the world, it can come in peace. We said that if Merkel or Juncker were smart, he would buy your bonds and give or place the quota he would want in Hungary, and not only would you not object, but because of your greed, you would stick to it and be happy about it. Now, this is the deceitful policy that we would like to take down once and for all, and what we would like everyone to understand when we do not support a semi-solution such as your fundamental amendment of the law. Then we arrived at the spring of this year, on 7 March the Parliament created a certain legal border closure that Jobbik was the only party to support. We supported this because it is indeed in Hungary's interest, and we supported this because it does indeed serve the security of Hungarian society. Then, just a month ago, this legal border closure, recently, more than a week or a week ago, and a few days ago, Prime Minister and Antal Rogán went to Brussels for a trial. At the press conference following the trial, Antal Rogán talked about the fact that we can amend this legal barrier, the only essential part of it that would not allow people between the ages of 14 and 18 beyond the transit zone, and that the same procedure should be carried out for them, which would be for everyone else who has already reached 18 years of age. Then this was confirmed last Monday by John Lázár, who, by the way, referred to Christian values for immigrants between the ages of 14 and 18. It is a pity that these values were forgotten in the referendum campaign. I point out this because it shows exactly your sunflower policy, and it shows exactly that it is completely different what you are doing, and it is completely different what you are saying. Therefore, we see and continue to say that if you really care about the safety of the country, the preservation of the homogeneous state of Hungarian society, then the danger remains here, and the situation remains that a fundamental law amendment is necessary, but a fundamental law amendment that makes it clear that it is not poor, rich, young or old. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to tell you that by attacking the autumn referendum, you are insulting 3.3 million people. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Adam Mirkóczki: I didn't say that! Do you speak Hungarian? Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: No!]] And by attacking the consultation [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: Text understanding zero! Adam Mirkóczki: Functional illiteracy!]] Jobbik, as it has done in the last few days, is now insulting over 900,000 people. Otherwise, the desperate rush and explanation of the Jobbik on immigration and the amendment of the Constitution would be a smile if it were not for the security of the country. [[9.50]] If Jobbik really wanted to fight illegal immigration, he wouldn't have drilled the referendum campaign and referendum and prevented it by all means. [[György Sziagágyi: A lie!]] the amendment to the basic law. [[Dr. István Apáti: Say it yourself!]] Instead of standing up for the country, they were blackmailing the government on their own authority. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Tell us about the bonds!]] And by the looks of it, they'd be doing it right now. What is your position, what is Jobbik's position on migration and quotas, please ask his own couple president, who said a few weeks ago on the RTL programme that it was possible to think about introducing the quota system [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's not what he said!]] when it comes to a few thousand people. Please take a look at the footage. [[György Szilágyi: That's not what he said, it's a lie!]] Jobbik would therefore allow a few thousand people into Hungary, which we are well aware is the hallway of distribution without the upper threshold, based on Brussels plans. And after that, they're gonna try to get the government to account for it. [[Adam Mirkóczki: And the bonds?]] What hypocrisy is this, honourable Member? ! [[Ádám Mirkóczki: What about establishment? György Szilágyi: Business Party!]] And by the way, this is not the only case where Jobbik will probably go against his previous policy and many of his previous voters. Take, say, their anti-government billboard campaign, which is very instructive for Jobbik's public money management practice. [[György Szilágyi: The truth hurts, doesn't it?]] At first, they didn't even know how many posters they had, they were talking nonsense. [[György Szilágyi: Party of Bizenis!]] Then they started talking about where the money came from, and then they figured out how to say it was on credit. So they don't even know how much they're spending, but they're gonna take out a lot of credit. We know this, this is what the MSZP used to do, this is what the SZDSZ used to do, so we have more than 80 percent of the government debt. And by the way, that's what they did to themselves, which is why the MSZP doesn't have a normal headquarters anymore. [[György Szilágyi: You were the youth department of SZDSZ! What are you talking about? The president's ringing the bell.]] Or the SDS. In the matter of the government's vendetta campaign, let me tell you more. [[György Szilágyi: I tell you, when the Soros financed you, you were the youth department of SZDSZ!]] before, they denied eating out of the hands of a billionaire, but now they're getting less and less. One of their representatives, for example, speaks without inhibition of possible future forms of cooperation in a residential forum in Zirc. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: No cooperation...]] Honourable Congressman, Jobbik refers very often to public money and transparency, while in Ozd press reports, the better leaders reach out to public procurement, so that in one case the company offering the more expensive offer takes the job. [[György Szilágyi: Lies!]] The taxpayers had to pay tens of millions more. If they are so fond of public money, then the investigation will begin primarily in Ózd. We can't take it as a reassuring clarification that the mayor was half-naked in his office before New Year's Eve. A more responsible attitude, a serious examination is needed [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among other things, the fundamental law amendment... the president's ringing.]] preferably in clothes, honourable right-wing Members. In any case, it is clear from these that what a better governance would be like. It's exactly like the practice of good-looking leaders in Ozd: posing first with a man in a Hitler costume, then half-naked, dreaming about glowing zebras, and picking up public procurements. That's the way it is, honourable Member, the governing power of the Jobbik. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Under you, corruption has ceased to exist in the city until now!]] These are just a few of the many examples, and under these circumstances, there's nothing to be surprised about. [[Dr. István Apáti: Fundamental Law Amendment!]] if many good-looking basic organizations are divided from Nagybörzsöny to Vámosmikola to New Whiteto. [[György Szilágyi: Talk about what you asked.]] You know as well as I do, you're yelling. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Tell us about yesterday's match results.]] Many things can be said about Jobbik, but the fact that it would be a national party is becoming less and less, almost not at all. [[György Szilágyi: You missed the victory of Győr yesterday! Tell me something meaningful. There's 40 seconds left! The president's ringing the bell.]] Gergely Pongráz would not be happy at all if he had to watch this, and I don't think he ever gave his support to a party that has been pulled on a wire, whose leader's greatest political achievement over the past few years is a couple of cat pictures on Facebook and Instagram. [[György Szilágyi: There are 30 seconds left!]] Because it's not good to watch this. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Bravo! Bravo! Bravo! Clap your hands.]]
u2017-05-08-20	Congressman György Szilágyi... [[György Sziagágyi: I liked what you said! That's a good boy.]] Congressman! But he's not in the concert hall, and we're not at the football field, we're in the National Assembly. [[Dr. István Apáti: Mind is important, not hair!]] I'm asking you if you can [[Dr. István Apáti: He is proud of his homeroom teacher! Close relatives and distant relatives!]] A little quieter. [[Dr. István Apáti: Tragedy!]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2017-05-08-21	Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Szávay, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik [[György Szilágyi to Csaba Dömötör: Don't show me! Come out! I'm gonna fuck you up!]] That's gonna get your head down! ; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz.
u2017-05-08-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Now it's 9:54 p.m., and we're gonna start discussing questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr Zoltán Gőgös MSZP-based fellow Member K/15259. He refused to take a written question because it does not fall within the remit of the Government. Representative Sándor Szabó is not in the Chamber... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Here it is! Sándor Szabó: I'm here!]] The monitor's covering it up for me. I beg your pardon. Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: is he fighting as a responsible minister to increase the wages of local government workers in the 2018 budget? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman, and I apologize again.
u2017-05-08-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Civil Service Workers' Union sent a letter to the Minister of the Interior in March 2017 to the local government [[Dr. István Apáti, turning to the chiefs of the minutes, we should also write what he showed us.]] in order to resolve the employment conditions of workers. As is known, in the last nine years, the civil servant's salary has not changed, so the real earnings of municipal workers have decreased by 30 percent. Only one third of the 36 800 local government employees have received any increase in earnings, and the other 25,000 municipal workers have not received any increase in earnings for 9 years. And although it is included in the 2017 budget that the municipalities can raise the salary base at their own expense, it is false, since the vast majority of municipalities have no source and opportunity to do so; only 300 of the municipalities could do so, but their resources are limited, and the other municipalities need state aid. The MSZP's position is the same as that of its trade union, which says that the salaries of municipal workers must be increased and that this possibility must be resolved through state resources. And this is a very good opportunity to do so in the 2018 draft budget, in which the Ministry of Interior would otherwise have the opportunity to fight for local government employees as a specialised department for the supervision of local governments. Local government officials have sworn to do everything in their power to help the inhabitants of the settlement, but due to the low wages, emigration is large, and the government's wage-raising measures can mean that the offices can be empty. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State when they intend to raise the salary of nearly 25 thousand local government workers; why they do not want to secure the source of this from the state budget; and as the department responsible for local authorities, they will make their voice heard in the interests of municipal workers before the final adoption of the 2018 budget. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2017-05-08-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, answers the question.
u2017-05-08-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In order to settle the situation of the municipalities, the government has done a great deal in the last seven years, perhaps it is also known to you that between 2004 and 2009 the government sector - according to the State Audit Office's report - drew some HUF 1700 billion of funds from the then government, some of which were replaced by loans of HUF 1300 billion, and sold some HUF 300 and HUF 400 billion of municipal assets in order to keep the municipalities on their feet and to carry out their duties. But not only has the potential of local authorities been reduced, we all know that by 2009-2010 the country's economic situation has fallen to an extreme degree, and that creating the necessary conditions for its operation has also taken a great deal of effort. The Fidesz-KDNP government, which was founded in 2010, has stabilized the country's economic situation, on the one hand we have helped Hungarian governments, among other things, out of the foreign exchange crisis and the foreign exchange tax crisis, so that the municipalities had the opportunity to apply for new developments and to use EU funds, as we have created the necessary resources for this. By the way, 31,700 employees in the municipalities are currently employed as civil servants, and the salary base of more than half of the employees is much higher than your salary base in 2008. [[10.00]] After all, the municipalities, some of them much earlier, when they were still free to do so, raised the salary base and increased salaries with personal wages and other salary hijackings. [[Csaba Dömötör is leaving the Chamber.]] There is a possibility in the budget of 17 that the municipalities will be free to determine the salary base, and the budget will create the resources necessary to increase both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and we will look at the fact that municipalities who do not know [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] provide the wage increase from own resources and receive additional benefits. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask a question [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] to the Minister of Human Resources: How long will the Hungarian health care continue to sink? It's an address. It is for Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the days we were once again reminded of the catastrophic state of health in Hungary. On the Internet, the picture spread like wildfire from a list compiled by SOTE's clinic, which lists what the pre-ops must carry with them when they lie in a class. The list contains: carbon-free water, glass, cutlery, toiletries, paper handkerchiefs, toilet paper, own medicines, towels, and two woods of 10 cm, to be delivered to the operating aid on the way to the operating room. Although according to the clinic's statement, no surgery is missing due to a lack of personal or physical conditions, the list says a great deal about how even the creation of minimum conditions causes hospitals a great deal of work. During my years in the profession, I have personally experienced that the most basic tools for working are often lacking. Sadly, it is common for patients to take their medications with them, such as antihypertensives, or for chronic classes, nurses should provide diapers, and patients should bring surgery bandages and woods. They also give tetanus injections, which are prescribed to patients, taken at the pharmacy, and then returned to the clinic. Nevertheless, next year's budget bill submitted intends to spend less than expected and less than hoped for health care. So, I ask you, Mr. Secretary of State, how long must healthcare suffer from such a great shortage of resources? Why can't hospitals afford the most basic tools? Thank you and I look forward to your meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, answers the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, After more than 170 billion forints last year, which is this year's surplus for the health fund compared to last year, next year's budget includes more than 100 billion items underestimated by you. In previous years, it was typical that these figures decreased before 2010, they were able to start to grow after 2010, every year above inflation, and now it is noticeably over HUF 100 billion for a period of two years, with which hospitals can manage more than one. If you are only talking about hospitals located in your area of political operation, the Lips of the Hungarian Imre Hospital received a surplus of HUF 432 million from the targeted additional resources at the end of last year, the Deák Jenő Hospital in Tapolca received HUF 53 million and the Almási Balogh Pál Hospital in Ózd received a surplus of HUF 297 million. This was only the end of last year, but there were such subsidies at national level, and at the end of the year hospitals received HUF 8.5 billion for curative-preventive benefits as a residual of the year, HUF 15 billion for improving operational efficiency, HUF 45 billion for debt consolidation, but the government spent HUF 60 billion on this in 2015 as well. I think these are significant extra resources. If you look at the area of curative-preventive benefits, there is an increase of 41.7 percent compared to 2010, the basic supply is 52 billion, the GPs are 37 billion, the protective care is 7 billion, the outpatient care is 37 billion, the residents can manage almost 8 billion more, or there is more funding in the budget than there was in 2010. Overall, the Health Insurance Fund has a total amount of 40% higher than in 2010. If I look at this year's surplus, the Health Insurance Fund has an additional HUF 23 billion for curative-preventive benefits compared to last year, with an additional HUF 10 billion for the provision, as well as an HBCS pay surplus of HUF 10 billion, a pharmaceutical fund of HUF 7.9 billion, a high-value drug purchase of HUF 5 billion. Luckily, almost every part of the medical register has more money, and with this more money, hospitals can now farm. For all hospitals, the budget for the management of adequate assets and wages is much larger and 40 percent higher for the Health Insurance Fund than in 2010. I think it's a relief for all hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Will the nuclear coalition continue to build? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Süli, the minister responsible for the design, construction and commissioning of two new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, will answer the question. Here you go, Madam Group Leader. You have the floor. [[György Szilágyi goes to the President's pulpit and consults with the president, the notaries and the office staff.]]
u2017-05-08-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, For István Kocsis, some of us in this country have thought that the coffee has been cooked, but the coffee has not boiled, because that means he could have had champagne with you after you were inaugurated, and I think it is a scandal in itself that could have happened. This is István Kocsis, who is currently being prosecuted, and who some Fidesz circles now refer to as your Deputy State Secretary. On the one hand, please confirm or deny whether this is going to happen. But let's remember a little bit who this István Kocsis is. His persona is proof that in a moral sense, the Fidesz does not distinguish him from the fallen left, you are fully interlinked. István Kocsis is one of the depositaries of this merger. We can remember the time of the Tochik scandal when ÁPV Rt. was his deputy CEO and then his CEO. One era later, the Weekly Reply wrote that Kocsis, as CEO of the BKV, provided documents on the Hagyó case which contributed to the foundation of Fidesz in 2009, which, however, could not be transformed into a final court judgment. But you could not only receive significant assistance from the Kocsis, who was in principle in the service of the Socialists, twice. István Kocsis was MVM CEO in 2006, and that was when he took Csaba Baji, Viktor Orbán and István Tiborcz as his personal advisor. As of 2013, it was reported that Kocsis himself was transmitting between Orbán and Rosatom's leaders, and in 2014 the result was the Paks contract. By the way, István Kocsis literally has a lot on his plate. In the ongoing procedure, I would like to remind you that, according to the prosecution, ten billion people in the state MVM disappeared from the state MVM at the time of his Chairman-CEO by means of fake contracts without a trace. We also remember the Mrs. Kocsis case, his wife was convicted once, and now they're looking for money in a new procedure, and István Kocsis is also a suspect, who was sitting behind you in the box. The fact that István Kocsis may be there for the government restructuring of the surveillance of the Paks expansion, I think that it shows more clearly than any previous assumption what the investment in Paks is about, taxpayers are right to worry. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'd like to know what the man currently accused of infidelity was doing at your inauguration in your box.
u2017-05-08-32	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. I give the floor to Minister János Süli. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-05-08-33	Mr President, Thank you for your response. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bernadett Szél for giving me the opportunity to speak on this issue in public. When I compiled a list of invited members for my ministerial inauguration, I also thought, in addition to my family members, my close relatives, the entire Paks city council, of those who played a key role in creating the existing four blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and in launching the preparation of the new blocks. Benjamin Szabó coordinated the construction of existing blocks as ministerial and then as government commissioner; József Kónya, as the first CEO of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, did not only work for the installation and safe operation of the nuclear power plant blocks, but also for the infrastructure development of Paks. I personally invited István Kocsis, because in 2007 János Veres, Minister of Socialist Finance, asked István Kocsis, the then CEO of MVM, to develop and launch the Teller and then the Lévai project, which was designed to prepare the programme leading to the new blocks. In this long process, this was the first important milestone, which, as you know, was followed by further parliamentary decisions and approvals. [[10.10]] As to the role of István Kocsis, I can repeat what János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, informed you a few weeks ago on the basis of a hundred written questions. He did not play a role in bringing the Paks expansion to the top, he did not play a role in Paks II. in the preparation and conclusion of his contract [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I don't know if he's gonna be involved in the field in the future. The Inexpensive Electricity the achievement of the objective of stable and safe power supply and climate protection is guaranteed by Paks II. Project 3. I'm asking you to support this. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That was a beautiful sermon! Mr. Secretary, congratulations. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-08-34	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question, "What's next on the issue of the license of deaf people and hearers?" It's an address. Congressman Gergely Tapolczai has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-35	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is one of the first European countries to allow deaf and hearing people to obtain a driving licence. The first hearing impaired in Hungary, who received a driver's license, was Mária Weltner Györgyné Ivánkai, who is currently one of the most effective deaflympic athletes in the nation. Thanks to him, he opened the way for the other hearing impaired to obtain his license. Until 2009, thousands of hearing-damaged people could have received a driver's license, but in 2009 the then socialist-led Ministry of Health would have amended the regulation with a single pen stroke so that hearing-damaged persons were unfit to drive. As a new Member, in 2010, I managed to ensure that this Regulation did not enter into force. Since then, with minor or greater amendments, the original legislative intention is in place to allow hearing-damaged persons to drive, of course, after the prescribed fitness tests. Inexplicably for me, there has been a change in the attitude of doctors over the past few years. Several hearing-damaged persons have either been deprived of their driver's license or have been restricted in the form of speed limits, or are unable to take a motorway, or have been denied a driving licence during the rehabilitation review. I stress that according to any survey, hearing-damaged motorists do not cause or suffer more accidents than their intact associates. Since the last amendment, the interpretation of the law among doctors has not been uniform. My question would be what steps the wallet intends to take in order to ensure that the legislation is interpreted uniformly by doctors and what remedies are available for hearing impaired persons who have been deprived of their license or have not extended it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-08-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it was a very important aspect for the government, however, that, in order for everyone to be able to participate safely in transport, the freedom of movement should be least limited for our hearing compatriots, and that they should be able to go to work as much as possible, even by car in other areas of life. So far, there have been no mass complaints of this kind, in fact, there have not been any such complaints at the Ministry, but it is important that all doctors and medical experts act in accordance with the law, express their own expert opinions, so it is important that everyone is also aware of the remedies. Diseases and conditions to be considered by legislation can be learned from the legislation. Doctors who are qualified to assess fitness should take into account all the conditions to make good and proper decisions. If anyone thinks that they do not agree with the first-degree medical decision, everyone has the opportunity to seek redress. Reviews of first instance medical findings may be requested in writing by the first instance body within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. In this case, the decision will be made at second instance by qualified medical experts who will certainly have sufficient knowledge and means of investigation to be able to make an informed opinion. The review may be requested by the determining authority and the traffic management authority. The review opinion shall be communicated by the Head of the Committee to the person concerned, the applicant for review and the transport administration competent for the applicant's place of residence or place of residence, and shall also issue the opinion necessary for the validation of the driving document where appropriate. In the event of a first or second degree finding of inadequacy, the medical body carrying out the preliminary, out-of-time and periodic medical fitness tests may indicate the date of the new first instance medical fitness test, subject to the foreseeable date of the applicant's expected improvement. Thank you very much. [[Dr. János Fónagy applauds.]]
u2017-05-08-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter wishes to ask the Minister for National Development a question:. Priority investments in secret, or can we find out what our HUF 750 billion is going to do? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In February, I asked the head of the Centre for Key Government Investments for information on the exact list, location, budget, government decisions on these investments, who applied for investment and which companies became the winners. As a joke of the year, the head of the company said that the Centre for Priority Government Investments did not have any tasks and powers in relation to the priority investments, so they did not keep any records of these investments, they did not have any information about the content or budget of the investments. So they couldn't answer any of my questions. Of course, it would be easier if any information was made publicly available on the company's official website. Since I indicated that it would be appropriate to remedy this deficiency, as it is also required by the law, the more than incomplete website of the Centre for Key Government Investments has also disappeared. Finally, KKBK's annual report from MVM Zrt. clearly shows what the key investments were, such as the Puskás and Bozsik Stadium in Budapest, the Liget project, but this circle is constantly expanding, and now it has become inaccessible and completely uncontrollable to the public. They will spend 750 billion on these by 2020, so it would be good to publish these details. It is quite absurd that Viktor Orbán himself has been supervising the construction of the Puskás Stadium and is making his proposals to the government for urgent measures. Just in case Viktor Orbán, as a proposer, and Viktor Orbán, as the leader of the government that decided to adopt the proposals, should not coincide. Government Commissioner Balázs Fürjes mentions impertinent bluffs while hundreds of billions of taxpayers are being beaten. Secretary of State, that's why they're gonna be charged, but it's not a bluff. So, my questions are: why are the figures on the priority investments not public? Are you willing to answer what investment costs, which company won the construction? The jumping tower of the Swimming World, like part of the Tiborcz business, is so important that you don't care that the Buda quay, which is part of the world's heritage, is collapsing into the Danube? Or to whom do they transfer hundreds of billions of dollars, using the priority investments as a cover story? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-08-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Member's question is answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Data on priority investments are public, as the Government Decree declaring the investment as a priority is published in the Hungarian Gazette. The public government decisions published in the Public Procurement Authority and in the Hungarian Gazette, as well as the Public Procurement Act, provide for a detailed list of the contracting authority's reporting obligations and also provides that these data should be included in the public procurement database operated by the Public Procurement Authority. As far as the Danube quay is concerned, it has never fallen into the Danube. [[Márta Demeter: For now!]] And, of course, it won't happen in the future. The competition venue for the event of the giant tower jump is the valid water rights permit issued by the Metropolitan Disaster Protection Directorate, according to which it complies with the requirements of the administrative authorities involved in the authorisation procedure. Mahart PassNave Kft., the Central Danube Valley Water Management Directorate and the Metropolitan Networking Works also gave its consent to the project. In the preliminary conciliation process, the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Centre proposed the adoption of a final technical content which, according to the Centre's opinion, best ensures the integrity of the quay, which is part of the World Heritage Site. [[10.20]] The investment in the location of the giant tower jump is carried out at two paces, so we have conducted two separate public procurement procedures against which no appeal has been sought. Thank you for asking. I'm sorry I could say that. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Sins of the last eight years: Will there never be money to increase public health care? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, on behalf of the Minister of Human Resources, by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no progress has been made in the financing of public health care in recent years, and even in 2015, the practice of supporting public health recipients along with the aid on a fair basis was discontinued. As these constructions ceased, tens of thousands of people lost their public health care. I would like to quote that the salad law establishing next year's budget states that public health care is a contribution to the reduction of the expenditure of the socially dependent person in relation to the maintenance and restoration of his or her health. Compared to this, the amount of benefits will not be increased next year. I would also like to note that the only thing they do graciously is that next year, in the year of the election, a little more people can get access to the normative type of care, to be more precise: some of those who were taken from two years ago may be entitled again. In particular, the premium threshold will be increased by 5 percent. This basically means that if you reach HUF 29 925 instead of HUF 28 500, or HUF 42 250 instead of HUF 44 175, you can receive public health care. From this measure, I believe that no more money will be received from any of the 300 thousand people concerned for public health care, since neither the monthly envelope is increased nor the annual ad hoc envelope is amended. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State why the growth of the economy does not benefit people in need and why they are not finally increasing the amount of public health care. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-08-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already indicated, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it was important to have the half sentence that the Member said at the end of his speech on how to share in the growing economy, because indeed, fortunately in Hungary we are talking about a growing economy now, and the debates are going on about it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] To get more from who, not who to take what from, but who to get more from. This is why people's average earnings have also increased in recent years, with HUF 60,000 since 2010, which has helped as few people as possible who need public health care or need any other social care. Not only did salaries increase by an average of 60,000 forints, it is clear that family-type tax incentives should be added to the net amount, but there are a lot more people working: 700 thousand more people working than in 2010; fortunately, they too are further away from the threat of poverty. The number of people living in extreme poverty has also decreased by hundreds of thousands, some say by 200,000 and others by 315,000 in the last 4-5 years. However, the number of people who are at risk of poverty is obviously multifactorial, their number has decreased by hundreds of thousands, some say by 600 thousand, others say by 800 thousand over the last three to four years. There are, therefore, a lot fewer people who may be in need of either natural or financial aid from the state, and there are a lot more people who can get out of the difficult situation in which they need it. Nevertheless, we maintain the fairness and focus of the system, and, as you have mentioned, we are expanding it from 2018 onwards, and the budgetary coverage of this is included in the bill submitted, so not only from the salad law, but also from the budget figures, the Member can see that the income limit for normative public health care is increasing by 5 percent. Obviously, this also follows the fact that people generally make more money, and the drug register has already been mentioned today. This year's budget set the provisions of the drug register at 7.9 billion higher [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's like last year. This is also an important figure for curative-preventive benefits. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question:, '50s have returned, or how far can the brave heroes of Fidelitas go? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the Prime Minister, on behalf of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The list of crimes committed by Fidelitas is very long. Dealing with false currencies, serious assaults on a pig's slaughter in several parts of the country, ex-Fidelitas president of Dunaújváros Gál Roland, ex-Fidelitas' accomplice in a murder case, protesting journalists - I will not continue the list because the time frame is tight, nor will I continue because you know this criminal record precisely, because your young people are the defendants. Where were they when their sons, like cowards, visited politicians' houses and families during the night to destroy their values and decorate their homes and cars with ridiculous stickers? [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] Did you raise them to do this, or are you so disrespectful because you didn't have time to steal them? In a civilized world, even in politics, this is not acceptable to each other. [[Sándor Font intervenes. The premier's bell.]] Let alone against our family. Gentlemen, think about how you would explain this sick behavior to your family members. What would you say? [[Sándor Font and Dr. Bernadett Wind intervene. Interviews from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] That they're trying to intimidate my political opponents, my mother or my son, but don't be alarmed, is there anything wrong? How do their stomachs not shrink from building such a world for their children? In addition, young college students are being used for this. How did Fidelitas get the address of better politicians and their family members? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And Kuruc.info? Dr. Wind Bernadett: Who will be next in the opposition?]] Maybe BM delivered these contacts to them? Where's the limit in your dictatorship? How are they still trying to intimidate us? In our youth class, such sick, antisocial acts would have consequences. You ordered this series of harassments. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or do they distance themselves from their own organization and receive punishment? I'm looking forward to your substantive response. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2017-05-08-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have already said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I assure the honourable Member that Hungary is a state of law [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Oh, we were so excited.]] and as such [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Now we're calm! Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] anyone who violates rules and laws in Hungary can expect the police to carry out the necessary proceedings by legal means, and the judiciary, as an independent branch of power, will also do its job. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Of course, it is exciting and spicy when the Jobbik MEP talks about the return of the '50s when, before their identity shift, they intimidated settlements, parts of settlements or people with so enthusiastically supported uniforms. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks: "Protected!"]] Or they had armed training. But I could say the same thing. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] that Kuruc.info was the news portal from your ads, which published the addresses and telephone numbers of politicians and their families, and encouraged people to [[Tamás Sneider: What does Jobbik have to do with it?]] I don't know if they're going to end these people and put them in an impossible position. But in the same way, in the media that you have funded, not so long ago you remembered the birthday of Adolf Hitler and the mass murderer dictator. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] Of course, this happened before the cute letters from Hanukkah. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about Fidelitas?]] [[10.30]] It is not worth forgetting, too, I think, Mr honourable Member, that the organisations that you are operating intimidate people. You're talking about wiretaps, how they intimidate someone. Your mayor stood out half-naked or naked, saying that you were listening and scaring your own mayor. I believe that the excitement in which the Index, which is of the same ownership interest as Jobbik, has been hit politically, is so intensely affecting you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about Fidelitas? What else do we get from Fidelitas? Intercoms.]]
u2017-05-08-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question, "Why doesn't the government move up the pension increase in November?" It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-08-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The government claims that the budget has not been as good since the change of regime, and that at the beginning of the year there has not been such a budget surplus as it is now. The first two months of the year were closed with a surplus of HUF 180.4 billion. If the budget situation is indeed as good and stable as the government says, then people should feel it. Today, despite the rising average wage, many do not feel the effect of the increase in wages, as there is no general wage increase, and pensioners feel even less the alleged improvement in the economic situation. Today, pensioners receive only 1.6 percent, on average 2 thousand HUF more than last year, while the MNB predicts 2.6 percent inflation this year. According to the LMP, the government cannot sit on pensioners' money, and instead of compensation in November, pensions should already be increased according to inflation forecasts. What we see is that the government wants to hold back the pension increase for political reasons until November, so that it, along with the pension premium, can give a larger amount to pensioners before the elections. That is why you voted off my bill, which would have brought the payment forward. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Shame!]] The pensioners need to raise now in order not to reduce the value of their pensions. They find that while prices are rising, their pensions are worth less. And then we didn't talk about those who get minimum pensions, which will amount to HUF 28 500 for 10 years next year. I also suggested raising this to 50,000 forints, but this was also voted off, citing that it would be difficult, because too many laws would have to be rewritten. I'm asking why the government doesn't support the fact that pensions are being corrected already. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-08-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In my answer, I would like to start by saying that Fidesz-KDNP is the only government that has fulfilled all its promises of raising pensions so far, because we have promised to preserve the value of pensions, the purchasing value of pensions, and that we have been able to achieve this every year during our governance, unlike other governments. Other Governments - and I am thinking of the Socialist Government [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We don't care about that!]] - almost every year, the real value of pensions decreased. The Fidesz-KDNP government is the only government that has raised pensions from the performance of the economy, i.e. what the country has created, not from credit, so it has not owed the country any debt. This has been the case for every year of our governance, and it will continue to be so in the future. The pension increase consists of two parts, an increase on 1 January, which is equal to the rate of planned inflation, i.e. the increase in consumer prices, and then an assessment of price increases should be made for pensioners, taking into account the first eight months, and an extra increase should be granted to pensioners. It's the government's decision, it's the government's philosophy of pension increases. This pension increase will be passed back to pensioners in November. That's how it's gonna be this year. There are so many changes this year that pensioners can receive a pension premium if the economic growth rate reaches 3.5 per cent this year and the general government objective, i.e. the guarantee of the balance, is met. Laws and laws do not allow LMP's self-promoting proposal to be implemented by the government. The government will implement its pension policy consistently in line with the same principles. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Riz, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. What can we expect from the development of the Beach Bath in Miskolctapolca under the Modern Cities Programme? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Riz has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to the economic and social development of the city of Miskolc, the dynamic development of tourism is particularly important to me as Commissioner for Development. Since the spring of 2015, visitors to Miskolctapolca have had the choice of two baths, the Cave Bath and the Beach Bath in Miskolctapolca, which after ten years of break opened its doors again. The beach spa is open all year round, but apart from the summer season, guests can only use the services of the indoor wellness and fitness department. Soon this will change, as the second phase of the development of the beach can begin, thereby enriching Miskolctapolca with an annual adventure bath. It is planned that one of the special features of the spa will be the open-top bathroom, which will be used as a beach during the summer period, and in winter it will become a heated indoor bath with the closure of the roof. The re-opening of the Beach Bath in Miskolctapolca and its first pace of development were made possible by the. Modern Cities. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Dr. Ákos Kriza, mayor, announced in Miskolc in April 2015 that the state supports the first phase of the project by HUF 3 billion. The government will provide an additional HUF 5 billion for further improvements. In the framework of the development project, the construction of well drilling works in the area of the former children's beach began. In Miskolctapolca there are nearly hundreds of accommodations, dozens of restaurants and other catering facilities waiting for visitors. The development of tourist destinations is of the utmost importance in order to enable these businesses to further increase their turnover and thus create additional jobs. Dear House, The programme of modern cities started with the aim of making Hungary's 23 county-righted city the center of economic growth, the flagships of the development of the countryside. That is why I am asking Minister, Mr Secretary of State, what positive effects can the Miskolcians expect from the further development of the Beach Bath in Miskolctapolca. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, By rebuilding the Beach Bath in Miskolctapolca at several stages, it regains its reputation in the resort and spa area. In the first phase of the construction project, the area of the old adult beach and its immediate surroundings were renewed, which the audience can use from 1 June 2015. In the second phase of development, which already takes place in the framework of the Modern Cities programme, the entire spa complex becomes a real experience. This is happening in the area of the old children's beach. The connection between the two areas will be provided by gateway bridges. Miskolc intends to implement the development by finding the quieter wellness functions in the swimming pool and the seasonal family pool in the area of the first stage. For the second phase, they plan to create more active experience elements. There are different functions in several separate buildings, tailored to the needs of individual target groups, adults, young people, children and young children. In the second phase of the development of the beach bath, pools and outdoor swimming pools are also built throughout the year, as well as an indoor slide park that attracts a large number of visitors. The current development plans are expected to create another 70 new jobs and we expect more than 150,000 new visitors per year by the end of the maintenance period. This results in clear economic benefits, an increase in tax revenues and a further improvement in the labour market situation. This is also linked to the target system set by the Hungarian Tourism Agency, whose important goal is to increase the number of guest nights in Miskolc and Tapolca. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[10.40]]
u2017-05-08-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Who do you want to cancel your travel discount for? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's kind of sad news that the government is preparing for another cut in travel discounts. According to the draft budget for next year, there is a HUF 6.5 billion less money than this year in support of social policy travel fees to cover travel benefits. Unfortunately, the government has frozen its budget already in 2013, so it has been HUF 104 billion in the budget for four years. As the election budget balance for 2018 is in danger, the government wants to save where it usually is: social spending. In next year's budget bill proposal for this purpose, i.e. the appropriations for travel discounts will be reduced by 6.5 percent to HUF 97.5 billion. From this framework, the state intends to ensure the preferential travel of pensioners and hundreds of thousands of socially deprived people by train and bus. Due to the reduction of expenditure, some people are expected to lose the benefits they need. For the record, the water world has cost 120 billion forints so far. The Transport Workers' Council has already stated that this withdrawal can lead to a reduction in the number of passengers, a reduction in flights, a deterioration in the level of public transport, and thus also a negative impact on long-distance transport workers, in addition to those in need of social services. I ask you, whose travel discount you're trying to eliminate, who's gonna get hurt? Why can't they guarantee this year's budget? If the economy is growing, why do they take more from those in need next year? Thank you for your attention and for your reply.
u2017-05-08-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-61	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In short, no one. We're not gonna cancel anyone's travel discount. There has been no and no reduction in travel preferences among government concepts in recent years. In part, the State compensates for the loss of revenue in road and rail passenger companies due to the use of travel benefits by way of a social policy fare premium. Social policy travel support appropriations were completed by HUF 98 billion in 2015 and 2016. There were 104 billion planned in the budget compared to this. In comparison, therefore, less aid was used by transport operators for the actual reduced journeys. The planned amount of expenditure in 2018 for social policy toll support has been determined on the basis of the experience of the past years and the real use. According to data from the first months of the year, there is reason to believe that the trend will continue this year, and in 2017 a similar level of achievement to that of the last two years can be estimated. In the planning of the 2018 budget, therefore, we took into account the expectation that transport operators would indicate a lower amount of compensation for travel benefits. Otherwise, the budget allocation will be open from top to top, and in the case of a higher than expected line, payments will be made without a new government decision. I strongly stress that the furthest part is not narrowing travel discounts, but only budget planning takes into account the actual need for reimbursement. Since 2010, the government has kept the basic tariffs for local public transport at an unchanged level, while the quality of service is constantly increasing. So my fellow Member is not asking, but spreading rumors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: what does the government do to increase the popularity of scientific training? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-08-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the past 16 years, there have never been so few students in higher education who have applied for science education as they have this year. In recent years, the number of students enrolled in higher education has decreased more than is purely demographically justified, and the decline is seen in most trainings. At the same time, besides IT training, it is the most striking in science majors. In 2017, there were only 5700 people, compared to last year's, with a rather low number of 7 000. The overall picture is further nuanced by the fact that only less than half of the students who apply for admission start actual training at the selected university. We also have to count on the huge drop-out, as many people leave their institutions, choose different trainings, or, as this becomes more and more typical, continue their studies abroad, go to universities in other countries for master's or doctoral training. This is despite the government's policy strategy, which aims to increase the popularity of science majors in scientific fields. The failure of the programme and the many failures of the government in the educational field clearly demonstrate that the number of people admitted could not even reach the 2009 level in 2015. The outcome of the process can therefore be nothing more than constantly deteriorating results in international surveys, as we have seen in the case of PISA, and the very uneven preparedness of those entering universities. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what the government intends to do to increase the popularity of science majors. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer your question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think the topic known since the early 2000s and spoken by everyone was how few physics teachers are, how few science teachers are. There have been urban legends that only one or two people end up with this kind of education each year, and what will happen here in 20 years' time with high school physics, biology or IT education. That is why the government thought, and that is why it decided to take a number of measures, which, on the one hand, oriente young people in this area, on the other hand, keep researchers inside, doctoral students inside, those in higher education, and encourage even higher scientific performance, and, on the other hand, encourage 18-year-olds to choose their teaching courses. By the way, if we look not only at the quantitative side of the issue, but also at the quality side, we can see that Hungarian young people accumulate prizes in international competitions. So those who are busy with it will achieve very good results. But it is really necessary to be a more popular major, and more people should choose this. An important element of this was the required or optional nature of academia in several fields in the system of graduation. Here, about half of the admissions have an advanced degree exam of science. The path guidance has been supported by the Journey Scholarship under-program of the Travel to Science, which provides an incentive for students with a special interest in science, technology and mathematics to try themselves out in practice-oriented places or to participate in research groups. Another important talent management programme is the National Talent Program or the "New Generation" Excellence Programme, which helps PhD students, doctoral candidates and doctors to set up research and development programmes. The Klebelsberg Scholarship received 1592 young people, and here they receive significantly more scores for those who apply in the field of science and want to be teachers of science subjects. I would also like to say that the explicit purpose of one of our EFOP projects is to promote mathematics, science, IT and engineering. I trust that the fruits of these will soon be ripe in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I would ask both the speakers and the State Secretarys-General who replied to try to comply with the two-minute time frame, which is in line with the rules of the house. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, Member István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, notary of the Parliament, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. István Ikotity, notary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, More and more surveys show that we are very poor in the field of foreign language knowledge. According to Eurostat data, we have the least foreign languages in the EU, only 37 percent of the population. This makes us worse than Bulgarians. It is very talkative that more than half of the population in Spain with the third worst result speaks at least one other language. The EU average shows that two thirds of EU citizens can speak even in another language other than their own. The Hungarian lag is therefore very significant and represents serious competitive barriers. For those who speak a foreign language, the world is opened up, they are more successful in the labour market, they can get a better job, they can earn higher income. The government seems to be completely powerless against the problem, their only attempt, which is being served over and over again, is to have the first language exam free of charge in this cycle. By the way, what does first mean? The first try? Or how many times can you try until you pass your first language exam? Mr. Secretary. Freeing language exams helps very little on the problem of Hungarian language learning. It should also be addressed how students get to the language exam, how you reform Hungarian language education. How does the methodology change? Will the number of groups be reduced? Will there be more prepared and motivated language teachers? Are the terms of language learning improved? When will the state finally help parents not have to pay their children expensive language classes, extra lessons if they want real results? How does that get language skills in any school in the country? Mr. Secretary. The idea that the language exam will be free will be introduced as a new one for many times, and there is still no details of it. [[István Tukacs: The first successful! They forget to tell you that.]] When is this gonna happen? After their government? Thank you.
u2017-05-08-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is no longer a week for the LMP to disparaging the functioning of teachers here in Parliament. You have just issued such a certificate of language teachers, honourable Member, that they cannot teach the child. We strive to enable as many teachers as possible to participate either in further training or in other ways, so that the quality of language education is higher. If we look at the number of language lessons in public education in Hungary, then we see that it is indeed very high at European level, it is one of the highest, but at the same time it is not in correlation with language skills, so we are trying to help everyone to really get this knowledge in a large number of language classes. All I ask of you is that you do not abuse the Hungarian teachers from week to week here in this House. [[István Ikotity is shaking his head.]] The graduation program was also a success. I think a lot of people have managed to get their degree with this because of the language barriers. It was clear when the first language exam would become free. This will be an opportunity for all Hungarian citizens under the age of 35 from next year. It will be financed by post-financing, and then the fee for the language exam can be requested at the new generation centres to be reimbursed ex post. Although you do not think this means any ease, no simplicity, but we think that it will be a simpler and better opportunity for many people, because those who do not dare to run into a higher level of graduation, their financial opportunities are difficult, they may be easier to run a language exam if the first one is paid by the state, so that they can obtain it more easily, they can also gain a kind of confidence in the area of language skills. Everyone agrees on the high social value of language skills today. I think that if we can help people to do this, or if we can give the participants of the project a value of billions of HUF in EFOP projects, or if the beneficiaries are given a six-month or one-year language course, then they are all for the purpose of obtaining language skills as many as possible, and the state will reimburse the B2 or C1 language exam for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: what can police and police workers expect from the Government of Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Nitrai has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-71	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In our country, nearly 60,000 police and police workers serve. I think we should thank them because they protect our borders and take care of our safety. They do this on weekends and holidays, often risking their lives. There is a result of all this, since both public safety and safety in transport have improved significantly in recent years. Dear Parliament, I think it is very important that the Government of Hungary appreciates police and police workers not only morally, professionally, but also financially. Hungary's Government launched the career model of law enforcement workers in 2015, which means an average 50% wage increase in the sector until 2019. This means serious financial security, predictability for the police. We also expect this measure to involve more and more young people in the police career. Dear Parliament, Hungary is a rule of law, everyone can express their views in the form of a demonstration, as has been the case in the past. Allow me to thank the police, who have done extremely professional work on these occasions, in front of the public of the Parliament, because such a move must always be accompanied by police preparedness. Dear Parliament, Since it was not so long ago that police day, allow me once again to thank the police and police officers for protecting our borders and for protecting our security. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how they intend to help the police and police career in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as of 1 July 2015, the new Law of Service came into force, and this has brought about a historic change in the lives of law enforcement workers, firefighters, BV workers, TEK, National Defence Service staff. Indeed, as a first step, an increased wage increase was made year after year, but in addition, from 2016 a performance benefit was introduced, providing employees with an average annual surplus of between HUF 100 and HUF 300 thousand depending on performance. Another pillar of the law enforcement career was the expansion of housing subsidies in 2017, resulting in 2 billion HUF 815 million being paid to the services in 2017. As the third pillar of the career, the increased health risks associated with the law enforcement profession, as well as the risks to life and physical integrity, have also been adequately addressed. From 1 January 2017 it was also possible to continue the employment of those who were ill in the performance of the service other than their own failure. The success of the career model is demonstrated by the fact that while, before 2010, there was a permanent shortage of personnel, whether the police or the fire department or the BV, the fluctuations have been virtually minimized, and people's migration has been minimized. The opportunity for border hunting is taking place with great success, and border hunters are constantly on duty. But in addition to this, not only financial appreciation, but also the creation of appropriate conditions are ongoing. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:, do they not start to act only when they sting, or what do we need to know about this year's mosquito abuse? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.00]]
u2017-05-08-75	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, From 3 April this year, the Balaton coastal municipalities started to reduce mosquitoes and do so at their own expense, because: the timely and timely protection can positively affect the effectiveness of the whole year's mosquito control, as they have said. My question is what will happen to the national mosquito slaughter this year, whether it will repeat what happened last year, the consequences of which we all saw were practically eaten by the huge mosquito invasion, even though a billion and a half forints were already available in April last year. After that, after I asked in May when the mosquito slaughter would start, I was informed that the public procurement was about to take place, and then, in a reply from the Minister on 19 July, it came to light that they had been selected by a negotiated procedure without publication of a notice, who would carry out the mosquito slaughter or damage, because suddenly there were so many mosquitoes that they had to act immediately, even though the money was already available from April. Mr State Secretary, I would like these to not be repeated this year, so I would like to have the following questions answered. How much money is available for mosquito control this year? When are they gonna start national mosquito control? This year, will we finally be able to choose the companies that produce mosquito control in a regular public procurement procedure, or will they try to do it again and give it to the chosen ones in exchange for allowing mosquitoes to multiply so that last year's problem can be repeated? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply.
u2017-05-08-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, answers the question that the Member has said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On 28 December 2016, the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection of BM published open procurement procedures under EU procedures to carry out mosquito control tasks and to carry out expert tasks related to the organisation and control of central mosquito control. Proposals are currently being evaluated and, if applications are valid, contracts are expected to be concluded at the end of May. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] From 1 January 17, the task of managing the task is the head of the professional disaster management body, central body, to ensure the efficient, continuous provision of the mosquito control programme. From 2017 onwards, the Finance Act provides for HUF 1 billion 483 million for DG Disaster Protection. I would like to inform the honourable Member that in 2016, no official complaint was received from the municipalities or other organisations in relation to mosquito control. In 2017, coordinated biological mosquito reduction is planned for up to 25,000 hectares of aerial mosquito reduction up to 470 thousand hectares of ground and chemical mosquito reduction in up to 340 thousand hectares. We want to increase the proportion of biological degradation compared to recent years, but the actual size of the area, the method of implementation, will be determined on the basis of a continuous survey of the participating experts. The active substance in chemical degradation in agriculture and stored food crops has no adverse effects on humans. In recent years, companies carrying out professional disaster management and expert monitoring activities selected under the public procurement procedure have carried out checks on the implementation. This includes identifying the reasons for the work and identifying the area. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why doesn't the government want more graduates? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-05-08-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This year's data on the number of candidates for higher education have recently been published. In 2017, 106,000 people applied to university and college. This is another setback compared to last year's 111,000 applicants. Although there is a low growth rate in previous years, this seems to be breaking. This is a problem because in 2010, so at the beginning of their governance, more than 140,000 people wanted to learn more, but the government's anti-tertiary measures led to a drastic decline in this number. The numbers prove that, too. During the 2014 applications, you have fallen below 100,000, you have withdrawn significant resources from higher education, you wanted to expand it, and you can see that you are effectively extending tuition training. This has a significant impact on the desire to apply. Asked for the May Other Politics for the statistics of KSH as well. These show that the number of candidates has decreased within the given age group, i.e. the government's constant argument that the decline can be explained by demographic causes, does not hold up; it is far from an exclusive reason; this clearly has a role to play. Although the number of young people is running low, many leave the country, thousands of young people leave the country every month, but this does not seem to reduce the number of higher education applicants. Your actions are much more supportive of this, which is why they don't come forward. High schools are crowding out public knowledge, squeezing universities, restricting the number of high school students. We want four out of ten graduates in Hungary. What are you going to do about it? Why do they keep moving in the opposite direction? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-08-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We would like ten out of ten young Hungarians to acquire a profession, a qualification that can immediately take up their position and work in their profession, which is best suited to their abilities. You are puffing up sentences, Congressman, which have no basis for increasing tuition training. No tuition. In a referendum, we abolished tuition [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] Hungary. There is a withdrawal of funds in higher education - every year there is an increase in the amount of funds that can be used in higher education. The government limits the number of applications in high school - it does not limit the number of applications in high school, honourable Member, the government, and even if it talks not only about high school but also about graduation, this year, 2016-17, 32 689 more ninth grade students have the opportunity to graduate precisely because in the new vocational training system you can obtain a diploma within two years of the acquisition of the profession. So there are 32 689 who are closer to graduation and closer to getting a higher education. You always look at the input numbers in higher education, never the output. It is never taken into account that 30 percent, up to 40 percent of students disappear during training. This is the case of leaving school without leaving or leaving school, when you start, but at university you realize that you're not really here for this course, or the conditions are too harsh, you can't meet them. Our goal is to bring the dropout to the lowest possible level, and to increase the number of graduates in Hungary if one third of university students do not disappear in the five years. If we achieve only one third of the success here, it is already a 10 percent degree increase in Hungary, which is also being pursued in all other countries. Honourable Congressman, If you have already made European comparisons, Hungary has undertaken to do so in the Europe 2020 strategy, and our joint European commitment is to increase the number of higher education graduates to 30.3 percent. We have already done this, since this is already 33 percent in Hungary, so we are trying to bring even higher numbers than that contained in the Europe 2020 strategy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-82	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Why do municipalities distribute waterwood as social firewood?" It's an address. I'm asking for your understanding, Congressman, because of the handover issues, I've missed the order. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The poor man cooks with water, keeps the saying, and, better or not, with wet firewood, I say that at best, because, unfortunately, in worse cases, anything that can be found around his household, even with waste and garbage. As the winter smog situation has shown, unfortunately, there are a lot of people living under the minimum living standards in Hungary, and many of them would fire or fire with wood if they had firewood. It has also been said that, if it is already a firewood, the wet, freshly cut firewood is one of the most polluting fuels, as it impairs the efficiency of the combustion, destroys the combustion plant, obviously lower heat, and increases the solids load of air pollution, i.e. air solids pollution. [[11.10]] That is why it is important that when, in which case, it may not always be possible, but when it is possible, at least dry, dried firewood should be used by those who fire wood. What I have now asked the Ministry of the Interior is the case of the social firewood, because in many cases the local authorities put the applications on the social firewood in the autumn, so many times they give the people in need a freshly cut tree with a heavy moisture content as a social firewood, destroying their combustion plant, destroying their health at the same time, as the local people are sucking in this smoke, this air that this firewood emits. Of course, this would be just a technical question, if these applications could be written out in spring, then they could supply the many and unfortunately more people who need them in Hungary with the appropriate firewood cut and dried at the right time, because because of their financial situation, they cannot afford to buy the right quality firewood at the right time. Please, Mr Secretary of State, take this for what we intended, a constructive opposition proposal, and I look forward to your reply as to whether there are any obstacles to its implementation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-05-08-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that it is not, as you say, that every year more and more poor people are forced to heat, say, with firewood. Based on the depriviality indicators, it can be said that since 2011, 602,000 people fewer indicate that the acquisition and purchase of the winter fuel is a serious financial problem for him. However, the firewood programme itself started in 2011 and I would like to point out that the social firewood programme launched at the initiative of the Minister of the Interior is not a substitute for the provision of housing aid in municipal aid. The firewood programme managed by the Ministry of the Interior year after year is a crisis aid programme where municipalities feel, for some reason, that they are unable to fulfil their task within their own relief system. Every year, we look for state forest farms and inform them of the expected quantity of firewood and its source, and they are able to prepare the amount of firewood that the local authorities are ordering or not, since local authorities are not obliged to order firewood from public forest farms, but can order from private forest farmers, or, in many cases, as a firewood programme, municipalities distribute wood produced in their own territory to the population. So the Ministry of Interior has no insight into what kind of aid and what kind of firewood the resident receives at any given moment. According to the surveys, it is also apparent that the municipalities are not equipped to ensure the transport of firewood in half a year or longer. However, I believe that this preparation is suitable for forest farmers to load a sufficient amount of firewood in advance and provide dry wood. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development a question. It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent on behalf of Prime Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-08-87	Thank you very much for the floor. As a Member, I think it is one of our tasks to ask those questions here in our constituency, which are heard in our constituency. For this reason, I would like to ask you that there have been rumors in our neighborhood that the government is planning to sell the building of András Mechwart Home in Belecska and Margaret Home in Regöly County. The institution of Belecska is home to the former András Mechwart Castle, the institution of Regöly, the former Esterházy Castle. These are beautiful buildings, which have been renewed on a number of points with EU money in recent years. These homes are home to elderly people, people with disabilities, people with psychiatric and addictive diseases, and now there's a rumor that they're going to be moved to smaller institutions, and they're going to live there. The local rumor is that these properties were approached by the head of the family of Hungary's main bank, and the other by the head of the family on his own feet. I'd like to ask the locals: it's not possible that the residents must move out so that some people can buy horse riding and a weekend house where they can rule, as is customary in the Fidesz government. We have seen that there is a strange attraction to the castles by the head of the family on his own feet, but we hope that these people are not moved out of these buildings, from beautiful castles, to give these people these buildings for free. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-08-88	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Speaking of something at a local MSZP meeting, honourable Member [[Anita Beringes: Inn class, which you don't usually do, because you don't go with people. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is not a rumor, especially an unsubstantiated assumption. Both real estates, both regula and their intestines, are used by the Tolna County Integrated Social Institution. In one, the home provides full assistance to moderate and severe mentally impaired residents, and in the other it provides rehabilitation services for mentally disabled people. The main task is to help residents to develop their own ability to lead their own lives. Both are managed by the Hungarian National Asset Manager [[Anita Herring: That's it!]] , and is in the management of assets of DG Social and Child Protection. No institution has initiated any change of status in this regard, nothing has happened, all of them are doing their job, the trustee is managing the property, and the SZGYF is continuing its operations there. They cannot be approached, as you know, if you look into the fact that MNV Zrt operates an electronic auction system. So, from an electronic point of view, I don't think it can be interpreted. At the same time, if you are talking about urinating, ask or consider with your fellow factions whether when László Botka goes for deep-sea diving or walks around in a white luxurious craft or wears a million-dollar Rolex watch, whether it falls into the category of urization at MSZP or not. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-90	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What do you want to do to deal with the runaway rents, the housing crisis as soon as possible and then stop it? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President, has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-91	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I will not reveal a secret, as the problem is well known: Hungary has been seeing a rise in rent rates for many years. It is worth paying attention to wage developments over the last ten years, then adding to the change in rent rates during the same period. The graph is on an opening track, with an increasing proportion of payments to be spent on rent. I think that there is no debate between us on the fact that, in the longer term, the current situation is unsustainable, which does not seem to decrease but to increase. Dear Secretary of State, If you are single and cannot expect parental support, you do not have your own property, but you would like to have a roof over your head, it would endanger your everyday livelihood, indeed your livelihood, because your salary will be taken away by the rent, and then you will still have to eat, travel, spend your leisure time, don't give your God, spend on culture or the cost of illness. I know it is not always a good place to refer to the rich western or northern states, but it is a good sign of the fact that, for example, Finland has 40,000 two-room or three-bedroom apartments in which 60,000 students live, almost free of charge. We don't have any student apartments, but dormitory seats aren't enough for students. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian state needs to intervene in the increasingly hopeless housing situation, and a comprehensive rental-building programme must be announced. Many people are looking forward to taking action on this. Let us not only catch up with Europe in rent prices, but also in the size of our apartments. I look forward to your reply to this, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[11.20]]
u2017-05-08-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, One or two sentences may be worth focusing on how this situation has developed in Hungary, on how the situation has developed, on the increasing number of real estate purchases by people and on the growing demand for rent, and on the fact that increasing demand also raises prices. The first reason is that the economy has such performance that the Hungarian economy has shifted from high unemployment to labour shortages, so employers are looking for more and more workers and therefore their housing needs to be ensured. So the performance of the economy is behind it. The other is Hungary's safety. The reason why people like to come to Hungary is because they are safe here, they live safe here, there are no terrorists, there are no bombings, and this is due to Hungary's migrant policy, which Jobbik, we know is not supported, because the Fundamental Law has not been voted on on this issue. The Hungarian government does not stand by and watch the processes, as it helps employers and workers who are in such a situation. Among other things, this help is that from 1 January 2017 the employer can grant a tax-free rent allowance of HUF 51 thousand to the employee. Or the government also announced a programme for the construction of working quarters, in which HUF 9 billion can be reached by tender. This is all encouraging employers to better provide housing for their employees. But it is also good news for the housing market that the health contribution will cease, so there will be no burden on it, and this will help the housing market to become white. I think that the government has taken the appropriate steps in this area, also, by observing the processes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-94	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the explanation for the fact that the EMMI did not know what was going on in the disabled home in Göd? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-05-08-95	Thank you for the floor, President's Road. Dear Secretary of State, As I see it, Minister has again failed to pay his respects to answer this question. As many of us know here in this country, last week a civil society organisation in the Topház, Göd, discovered amazing violations, and last Thursday the EMMI called the violations that were discovered by civilians in the framework of the international investigation shocking and unacceptable. When MDAC visited 220 residential institutions supplying disabled people in April, it found, as is known, poor hygiene conditions, physical restrictions, caregivers suffering from malnutrition and unsatisfaction. The EMMI, I understand, has therefore launched an extraordinary investigation, and DG Social and Child Protection has suspended the head of the institution. And now the story begins, Mr. Secretary of State. I don't think the EMMI can handle this whole story. My fundamental question is why Hungary needs to know from a civil society organisation that there are such conditions in the Topház. Can the EMMI and the Minister's responsibility be taken care of at all? There is the institutionkeeper, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Children's Protection, and in principle they are required to carry out regular inspections, but there is also an organization, the government office, the capital and the county, which should also be subject to annual inspections. Can we please have the documentation of these investigations, Mr. Secretary of State? There were checks at all, because if there were, why didn't this come out before? If they weren't, I think it's a scandal in itself. Moreover, the situation is exacerbated by the fact that civilians have been prevented from doing their work at the otherwise European Community level. There is not yet an EU Member State in the Community who has prevented this team from carrying out its monitoring activities. The specific Member of Parliament, who was also there and also wanted to monitor the institution, was simply misled, showed him a Patymkin institution, specifically for me, pretending that everything was okay. There's a huge shortage of resources in this area. Dear Secretary of State, Are they going to give us money for the social sphere? Are they finally gonna pay the people who work there? And do you specifically conduct a comprehensive strategic screening of all institutions in Hungary? Did the victims in there get help? How's this going, Mr. Secretary of State? I want detailed answers.
u2017-05-08-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Allow me first to talk about our actions in this area, and then about your visit to the institution, which you neglected to mention here. It is unacceptable for the Hungarian Government to have children abused anywhere, in any way, and therefore we have adopted the strictest legal rules in the Criminal Code, so that anyone who commits a crime to harm children will face the strictest possible punishment. We have also taken steps in the development of child-friendly justice so that all such crimes can be investigated, as it is much easier now to proceed with the procedure, under less traumatic circumstances for children and less reminiscent of the events at that time, to report to all county police the incident, the events that have taken place in relation to them. That is why we are confident that we can prevent these crimes as much as possible in the future, and that we can help the victims as much as possible, but most of all, it is prevention that we strive for. In this case, as soon as the facts came to light, SZGYF suspended the director of the institution, appointed a new leader temporarily, precisely so that the circumstances could be clarified, and in all previous cases, when a similar case arose either in public or earlier, before it came to light, we always acted as strictly as possible, and we immediately ordered an investigation. The heads of institutions who committed an irregularity were sent from the institutions during the previous investigations, and some have had to face imprisonment since then. This institution also had an earlier investigation, which resulted in the dismissal of the former leader, and the new one was appointed on 16 November 2016. You know that our plan is to disincentive you, we have 77 billion forints to be in small, family institutions. You, I understand, visited the institution on 17 November 2016, but then you deleted the Facebook entry of the account as if you had deleted it from your Facebook page. Obviously, we would have questions about this, too, but we will deal with this case with the same rigour as before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Will the motorway continue to build in Szatmár? It's an address. Mr István Tukacs has the floor.
u2017-05-08-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The construction of the motorway in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County has always been a vital issue. At the time when the highway reached the county and reached the county seat, hundreds of businesses settled or planned the settlement in the county. This meant jobs, it meant tax revenues for the State, it meant development opportunities that nothing else could replace. My specific question concerns the fact that during a Prime Minister's visit to Romania, the Prime Minister said that a 40-mile motorway section will be built from the border crossing in Bellershima to the M3 motorway. That would be good for a lot of people. It would be good for all those who want to reach the current M3 motorway in the region, it would be good for those businesses that want to travel and transport goods more easily, it would be good for all those who, by the way, come to Hungary from the border area, Romania, that is, from the region there, and are trying to move on. I do not want to mention the beneficial effects of this, but the question is whether this promise was a bluff or a reality. My question would be what stage of planning is, what stage is the kind of implementation plan that would allow this motorway section to be built for the joy of the people there. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very right to have improvements in the disadvantaged area, but it is not right for these developments to have bluff-like announcements. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Secretary of State, thank you for your answer.
u2017-05-08-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-08-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The network role of the M49 motorway is indisputable, and its implementation is also included in the national road network development concept. In recent decades, the increase in traffic on the road network, including the drastic increase in heavy goods vehicles, has become a national phenomenon. [[11.30]] For highway 49, the highest traffic value - 12 thousand vehicles per day - was measured between Mátészalka and road 491. In the medium term, the introduction of motorways to the border and the connection of county-righted cities to the motorway network are among the government's main objectives. Thus, according to the road development concept adopted last year, more than 900 km of motorways, motorways or European highways will be built by 2022 next to the current 1450 km expressway, from nearly 2500 billion forints. In the previous Government Decision on the coordination and implementation of infrastructure investments in Hungary's short- and medium-term road development by 2022, M49 motorway is not included. However, in the light of the traffic data I have just mentioned, the need to include it in the phase programme has been raised in both political and professional fields. Furthermore, the government will review the detailed list of projects on a quarterly basis, decide and decide to include new investments, depending on the progress of developments and the availability of additional resources. Scheduled implementation of the M49 motorway, connection to Szatmárnémet [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the European motorway network continues to be one of our complex road network developments. Thank you for the Member's question and for allowing me to say this. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-08-102	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. On a point of order, Mr István Hollik, Member of the KDNP Group, spoke. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-08-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I asked for the floor on a point of order, because I think that in a democracy it is perfectly natural that Parliament is a field of heated debates and disagreements. [[Intervention from the benches of the MSZP: What is the proposal?]] There is much to discuss, but I do not think it is possible for some Members to threaten others with physical violence, and Congressman György Szilágyi did so, threatening Secretary Csaba Dömötör with physical violence [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is Zsolt Bayer?]] in its statement before the agenda...
u2017-05-08-104	Congressman, your proposal, please.
u2017-05-08-105	... ina language which, I believe, is not worthy of Parliament or any parliamentary party. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: What is the order of business?]] For this reason, I would like to request an extraordinary meeting of the House Committee on account of the incident. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2017-05-08-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since a motion has been made to convene the House Committee, I declare that I will inform the Speaker of Parliament. Article 13 of the Parliamentary Act. In accordance with Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the President shall notify the group leaders in writing of the date of the meeting of the House Committee and of its location. This is expected to be held at the end of the sitting. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why is Fidesz serving foreign power? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2017-05-08-107	[[No sound.]] My card's in there...
u2017-05-08-108	I'd like a microphone for the congressman, please. One moment, please, the microphone is right there.
u2017-05-08-109	Mr. President, the voice is here. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that what has been done within the framework of the national consultation is unprecedented and shameful. You know, on Russian servers, personal data of Hungarian people could be transferred. The misuse of personal data and the suspicion of espionage may arise in this regard. Under normal circumstances, the Prime Minister resigns; he doesn't think much, he resigns. [[Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] I know, it's Hungary, Fidesz doesn't think that way here, the government doesn't think that way, it's just power and money that matters. We could give examples of this from Paks through the Olympics to the settlement policy, referring to a lot of other things, but I wouldn't care about that, but about the issue of yandex.ru, the Russian code itself. Within the framework of the national consultation, you have guaranteed that no personal data will be released to third parties. On the other hand, we see what happened. That's what your word is worth. The Russian handing-off of information may lead to the unlawful use of personal data and, where appropriate, the preparation of manipulation of elections. To whose pleasure, whose benefit is all this, whose affairs to cover up? And many other questions can be asked. How can Hungarians, Hungarians, go abroad in an identifiable form? These are sensitive, sensitive data. Why did you use the cooperation and services of a company outside the federal system? In 2011, this company itself said that it also provided information on secret services. Who authorized the use of this code? Prime Minister, are you or one of your State Secretarys, Minister? Whoever did this is totally wrong, it's not right. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-08-110	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-05-08-111	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The national consultation, as well as any other public governmental activity, is subject to strict data protection rules, and these strict data protection rules have always been respected and will continue to be respected in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]]
u2017-05-08-112	Thank you very much for the Prime Minister's reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-05-08-113	Prime Minister! If you had complied with this, you wouldn't have been able to get data from the yandex.ru server. No wonder more people are saying that Fidesz has become a quasi-Russian hit man. I'm not telling you, look at the studies, look at the research. Why did they not allow what they would have had the opportunity to discuss within the framework of the National Security Committee what we are talking about here within the walls of this House, or do you refuse to answer the questions? [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] With whom, how, and who consulted on the part of the government, who were those responsible? Who decided to put this code on this page? Look, Prime Minister, if you authorized the use of the code, then if you didn't allow it, and you don't know who did it, then you're not fit to do your job. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-08-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-05-08-115	If I understand correctly what my fellow Member has said, we are actually talking about an attack that you have launched against the national consultation - this is not unusual. [[Nándor Gúr: He didn't understand...]] We're used to the Socialist Party attacking national consultation, whatever it is. The national consultation is secure from a data protection point of view, and people know it, so more than 1 million people have returned the questionnaire. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No one can verify that this is true.]] We consider this evidence, proof of trust. [[It's constant noise. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No one can verify what you say.]] And as far as foreign and Soviet interests, as God gives, are concerned, I can tell you that your party can tell us a lot about this. After all, your party has done nothing but serve Soviet interests for many decades. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] Then the country was delivered to the IMF, and Ildikó Lendvai told me that you were on George Soros' side. Congratulations!
u2017-05-08-116	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. The Prime Minister cannot be a national security risk. It's an address. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor.
u2017-05-08-117	Mr. Prime Minister, Let's start with the numbers first. In the last three years of your government, nearly 100,000 Hungarians have left the country according to the data of the HCSO, while 105 have returned thanks to their program. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Admit...]] In the last six years, during the last six years of their government, 78 thousand Hungarian children have already been born abroad in emigrated Hungarian families. Prime Minister, this isn't an adventure long ago. You may have had a Soros scholarship in the West in your youth, but these people are fleeing this country because they have neither wages nor livelihoods nor futures here. Instead, what awaits them here is debt and a cynical, corrupt government that doesn't care about these people's problems. Prime Minister, you don't care about this problem, all you care about is money and football. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] Because if you were interested in these people's problems, you would see the family tragedies that lie behind this process, parents not seeing their children, grandparents not seeing their grandchildren. [[11.40]] If you were interested in this problem, you would see that these people's entire lives are ruined. You don't care about this question, you tell these people that you're not important, I don't expect you, you're not a significant reserve of this country. If you were interested in this problem, you would have allowed and supported Jobbik's proposal long ago, either by letter or electronically, to give these people the opportunity to vote. But that's not what you said. That is not what you said, Prime Minister, but electronically, I say again, electronically - XXI. Company, good morning. - I could have given them this opportunity a long time ago. Ferenc Gyurcsány used to say, Prime Minister, that you can leave; you tell them not to come back. Do you remember that you said that there is life outside the EU in relation to the European Union? What you are doing now, Prime Minister, with your current policy, is telling these people that there is only life outside of Hungary for you. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister: when are you finally willing to support the practical voting opportunities of these people, whether by letter or electronically? When are you finally willing to come out of the half-dark castles, and when are you finally willing to realize that the lives of Hungarian people are outside the stadiums, or should I say there is life outside the stadiums? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-118	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-05-08-119	Your Honour, Mr. President. The electoral law is created by Parliament, if they have such a need, I would like to amend it, start it, the government does not want to participate in it, it is not the government's job. As far as young Hungarians are concerned, I would like to make it clear that children are the most important thing for the country. It is important to have as many children as possible, to raise as many as possible at home, to have as many as possible good education and proper education. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: This is something they don't have a chance of slowly!]] It stands or falls in the interest of Hungary. Accordingly, Hungary is doing everything in its power to support young people: we started a housing programme, we Hungarians were the only Hungarians in Central Europe to cope with the problem of foreign exchange credit, we reduced the rent, we raised the wages to a significant extent, most recently the minimum wage by more than 25 percent in two years. I do not believe that since the change of regime, there has been a parliament that could have said about itself that it has made laws so important for young Hungarians as the current Hungarian parliament, which exists alongside the majority of the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party. We are proud of these decisions. As for those who go abroad, I find the sound you use several times here inappropriate. I think it's a matter of respect to people who are willing to try to get away from their country. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Because they have no choice!]] ; they should be respected for accepting the difficulties involved; they should be respected if they want to learn, and if they want to care for their families, they should. The reason we all work here on this side of the horseshoe is that these people, these young people, if they stood up outside and the time comes, they can feel that it makes sense to continue their lives in Hungary again. [[Anita Bering: To replace you!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-120	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-121	Prime Minister, the problem is that we respect these people, you don't respect them. It seems that you are inexcusable, Prime Minister. He's starting to act like an old rock star who's only having fun with his old albums. It's completely ripped away from reality! You know, Prime Minister, the problem is not that you don't know how to turn the computer on; the problem begins when you feel that the computer is responsible. The problem is not when you cannot keep up with reality, but when you feel that reality must be denied, the future must be chased away. Prime Minister, in 2018, you will be replaced, you have a year to live, and instead of the corrupt government that you are conducting, we will focus on the wages and increases of the Hungarian people. Instead of getting your castles, we will help people to live in their homes, and instead of their corrupt government, we will create a fair, livable, safe and free Hungary. And you know, Prime Minister, in 50 years' time, what will they remember about you and everything you're doing right now? After 50 years, they will remember that there was a man here, the Prime Minister of the country, who tried to drive away the Hungarian future, but failed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So let's agree, Prime Minister, the year of rebellion isn't this year, it's next year. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-08-122	Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-05-08-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In any case, let us conclude that Jobbik's leader did not question the government's efforts to reduce the rent, which he did for the housing of Hungarian young people, which he did for the purpose of creating a free meal, nor did Jobbik doubt that we were raising the minimum wage to a significant extent. Thank you very much for the indirect recognition. The fact that you didn't question them means one thing: if you can't get involved in our policy, you'll always be with me in person. This policy is skinny. Here we are spending time, but I would like to say that this is not what the Hungarian people are interested in, but what will become of their wages, housing, overhead costs and learning opportunities. One thing I can tell you: Jobbik is not, but Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party are always there for the Hungarian people, including the Hungarian youth. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-124	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When does the government start to deal with reality? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2017-05-08-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, You promised not to leave a single person on the side of the road. We travel the country, we meet people, and we see that there are a lot of people there; there are a lot of people on the side of the road to whom you do not give the opportunity to make a decent living. At one of the rural forums last week, a 61-year-old man came to me and asked me: "Tell me, Congresswoman, how can you make a living of this 22 800 forints I get? And he showed me the little coupon on which this amount was on. I lost my job a few years ago, I can't get a job, I can't get a job, I can't do anything. Last year, my father, who retired, took care of me. My father died, and now I have practically nothing to live on. . He asked further, "Tell me, why has Fidesz stopped, why has the government removed the possibility of early retirement?" Why? - That's what I'm asking, and a lot of people are asking. They promised me there'd be someone else, nothing happened, just a promise. And there's the minimum old-age pension, 28 500 forints. He hasn't changed in ten years. Next year - I submitted a bill to raise the HUF 28 500 to HUF 50,000. What did the representatives of the majority of the government respond to on the Welfare Committee? They said that too many laws have to be passed, so it is not possible. What does that mean? That the old-age pension will never change, because it always has to be passed through a lot of laws. I would impose the punishment for those who think so to live on these 28 500 forints for at least six months. They'd be thinking differently right now. Prime Minister S, I cannot go without saying that the government wants to give pensioners a raise due to inflation at the end of the year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you, Prime Minister, why you cannot give people who have done decent work for several decades a normal livelihood.
u2017-05-08-126	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-05-08-127	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for asking. I have just said that the children are the most important to Hungary, and I am holding this right now, but of course we cannot forget the obligation that we have to bear for our parents and grandparents, and therefore, of course, we do not accept the confrontation of generations. There is room in the government program and in the government's decisions for children and the elderly, for pensioners. Of course, when we entered the barrier again in 2010, we entered into an agreement with the pensioners, where we agreed to preserve the real value of pensions. This seemed to be a brave sentence at the time, because in previous years the governments that preceded us continuously took away their pensions from pensioners, took away their 13th month pension, and did not preserve their purchasing value. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP: It's not true! Give it back!]] There are yelling - I'm talking to TV viewers [[Interviews in the lines of the MSZP: There are no TV viewers! There's no TV! The president's ringing the bell.]] - This is because at the moment there is a debate within the MSZP on which one of them took the 13th month pension, Ferenc Gyurcsány or Gordon Bajnai [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] ; It is a good competition, and I would suggest that it should be held in the party seat, and less so in the Chamber of Parliament. In any case, the situation is that we undertook to maintain the purchasing value of pensions in 2010. I report to the Honourable Parliament and to you, Congresswoman, it was much more than that: if you look at it, we have managed to raise the value of pensions in the past period. [[11.50]] We are not satisfied with this, Hungarian pensioners deserve more, but we will increase every year, and we will fulfil our obligation to parents depending on the performance of the Hungarian economy. If this year there will be a 4% increase - which we have a good chance of as a result of Mihály Varga's economic policy - then there will also be a pension increase again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-128	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-129	Prime Minister, I think they're both small. What they do for the kids isn't enough. In the 2018 budget, they talk about HUF 35 billion, that families will receive as much money, but they will spend hundreds of billion forints on huge other investments, such as Paks, City Park or City Castle. So those 35 billion are very few. There are very few increases in inflation for pensioners, because pensioners should also give something from economic performance. They haven't gotten anything in years. At the same time, György Matolcsy, for example, received double salary, two and a half million more last year, and we know that Lőrinc Mészáros has increased his wealth by HUF 100 billion in one year, while pensioners live very, very badly and very hard.
u2017-05-08-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-05-08-131	Eternal debate about what is much and what is little. I agree with you, and I think we still have a lot of work to do in order to say that pensioners live in decent conditions in Hungary. But what our government is doing, unlike the previous governments, is not taking away pensions, but constantly increasing the value of pensions, just because we believe, in the same way as you, that we still have a lot of work to do here. But I would also like to ask you not to underestimate what has been achieved, because if we do not appreciate what has been achieved, we will not be in the mood to solve the tasks ahead. I do not consider it small that 318 thousand children are given free meals three times a day in Hungary in the context of a meal. Please do not underestimate this, this is a serious achievement for Hungary. The fact that 90,000 children go to free summer camp every year, this year as well, is a serious achievement of Hungary, and every Hungarian person can be proud of it. And the fact that 730 thousand students can receive textbooks for free in Hungary this year is also the result of our joint work, Hungary can be proud of it. And that we will spend a hundred billion in the year and a half ahead of us to build nurserys and kindergartens is another thing that we can all be proud of. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-132	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Balla, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What is the naked truth? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-05-08-133	I'll take it.
u2017-05-08-134	Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Oz's better-looking mayor stripped himself naked in his office, photographed himself, and shared this wonderful spectacle with the public of the country. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] He's supposed to do all this because he's being intercepted by a good fight. I don't know, I don't understand why he wants to send a message to Gábor Vona with a naked photo, I don't know, it's kind of ridiculous. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] But in any case, the party president ordered an internal investigation. But it's all completely irrelevant. The point is, what's on the recording? This recording was released, first to the Index, to Lajos Simicska's paper, who, after listening to the two-and-a-half-hour recording, said that this conversation was completely uninteresting. Unfortunately, it has gone somewhere else, unfortunately from the point of view of Jobbik, because it turns out that this conversation is brutally gypsy, attempting to bribe a journalist, and discussing a very highly corruption-suspecting case. So according to Lajos Simicska's paper, if Jobbik is a gypsy, trying to bribe journalists, or negotiating a corruption-suspecting case, it's irrelevant. In this matter too, ladies and gentlemen, two companies have submitted bids, one more than 10 percent cheaper than the other. The better-looking mayor could say that it would be life-threatening if the cheaper bidder wins. The notary told him to calm down because he had his people on the cheaper offer company to find something in his past that would get them to shut him out of the tender, and after that, the tender was won by the company that made the significantly more expensive bid. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] So Jobbik's anti-corruption package turned out to be a corruption package. I'm just wondering if there's gonna be any consequences for Jobbik's corruption cases. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-136	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Listening to Mr President's speech, I do not think that the most important moment is whether or not Dávid Janiczák has undressed, but that he is Vice-President of Jobbik, and that there is data on Jobbik not only as mayor, but also on the recording that the Member quoted. If I were him, I would urgently try to make myself clear that I had nothing to do with these recordings, that I didn't talk about a corruption case, that forint 40 million, why that 10 percent was so important and why the other company didn't win the job. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] If we look at Jobbik's farming, we can also see that there has been a campaign of posters from some mysterious source, because it has not yet been revealed whether the oligarch has provided them with this free of charge or whether they have been paid for it, and even the party president himself did not know. Then, after a long thought, they came to the point of taking out bank loans for this purpose, a bank loan of 100 million, which the party president doesn't know about. We would look forward to a very sad future in 2008, Mr President, if you really did get government, and your head of government didn't know how much credit the country would take and where it would lead, if you would always take care to win a certain more expensive offer, because that other company is not good for them, or if you could get to the point where, say, Béla Kovács's case would finally be solved, which is also not a simple matter, and even to Brussels, its waves will probably soon give out its immunity, which already involves foreign policy risks and national security risks. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-138	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman György Balla in return. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In connection with this investment, the city of Ózd has entered into an agreement with György Soros, a paid organization of Transparency International, in order to increase transparency, public confidence, prevent corruption and make optimal use of public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, Turns out what's on this recording. Turns out they supported the more expensive offer, it turns out that they wanted to get the cheaper bidder to make a more expensive offer, they had their people try to blackmail him, and after that, the funded organization funded by George Soros, which should fight corruption, was silent. Like the Helsinki Committee, the other Soros organization, which, I think, could have made brutal Gypsy play, let's say, along with the third Soros organization, the TASZ. But they all listened, and Gábor Vona signs a joint petition with the socialists, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the entire Jobbik fraction for the benefit of György Soros. Ladies and gentlemen, The Ozd mayor wasn't naked, you were covered in shrouds, that's what the naked truth is. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-05-08-140	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-08-141	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What he mentioned in the second part of his speech is like paying protection money to international organisations that are constantly trying to discredit the government. [[12.00]] This shows that there is a kind of cooperation, not only tacitly during the elections, between the liberal left and the so-called national wing of Jobbik, which, apparently, no longer exists, because these cases justify that nothing else is important to them but the acquisition of power. But to get back to the criminal case, because probably, if these data are real, then the suspicion of the crime is definitely raised, the Hungarian judicial authorities, law enforcement agencies, I hope they will do their job and get to the stage where we will know for sure. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-142	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "A fairy tale or a crime?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-08-143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, The hundred richest Hungarian wealth this year was close to 3380 billion forints, which is nearly 600 billion forints more than a year earlier. The 21 percent increase was well above the 0.4 percent consumer price index measured by the KSH in 2016, i.e. in real terms the wealth of the Hungarian rich has increased by almost 21 percent, while the average Hungarian families have assets below HUF 10 million, which only represents the apartment as a single asset. So over the past few years, the rich have been rich, while millions of Hungarians live day by day. Looking at the list, the evolution of wealth is strongly influenced by political relations, and increasingly. A fairy tale of the growth of many new rich fellows closely linked to Fidesz. The cart runs well for TV2's owner, Andy Vajna, who also travels in casino business, right, you said that Hungary is against casino capitalism when someone becomes rich by destroying others. But no one can top it, not even in the fairy tale, Mayor Lőrinc Mészáros. A good friend of the Prime Minister, who is very smart, works very hard, even instead of the Prime Minister, collects public money that transforms into private property. In one year, his fortune grew from 20 billion to 120 billion forints. With this, he jumped from 31st place to 5th place. Can you imagine, Prime Minister, that Lőrinc Mészáros would be so successful even if he wasn't a friend of the Prime Minister? Butcher said that God, fortune and Viktor Orbán must play a role in his success. Prime Minister! Is that legal, or is that just a crime? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-05-08-144	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-05-08-145	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to make it clear that the government has neither drawn up nor published any list of assets. The government doesn't deal with any list that rival businessmen make of each other and publish in different places. We leave this to the businessmen's entertainment world, it doesn't belong to politics. On the other hand, there is a principle that our government has always followed and will continue to follow in the future. And that sounds like business is being dealt with by businessmen, politics and the country's affairs and politicians. I know it's different with you. If not from anywhere else, we would know for sure that after Gyula Horn you gave three prime ministers to Hungary, all of them were businessmen. It's different with us. The Christian Democratic People's Party and Fidesz do not want to change that habit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-146	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2017-05-08-147	The success of the next government depends on whether it can be tough on its own, said Zoltán Pokorni, Vice President of Fidesz in 2010. We need to start a whole new world, and the first person who touches the cashier, we're gonna cut off his hand. That must be made very clear. Prime Minister! Where's 2010 and Zoltán Pokorni? There's nothing left but unscrupulous theft for you. If we took the words of Zoltán Pokorni seriously, there wouldn't be many in the benches of Fidesz, whose hands would have been intact. But, Prime Minister, many of them could have had their hands cut off by now, so many have been stolen in the last seven years. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-08-148	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2017-05-08-149	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There are two things I can tell you. The first is that when it comes to corruption, we can say that corruption is the Socialist Party. They never fought corruption. Seven years after your administration, Hungary's biggest corruption case, Metro 4 is still connected to your name. The other thing I can tell you is that I can see that you are particularly interested in the recipe for getting rich. But don't ask me, don't ask me. Go to the businessmen of the MSZP area, there's plenty of them, and they'll give you some good advice. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-150	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: After the hybrid's war and many additional actions, will he undertake a real national freedom fight with Brussels? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor.
u2017-05-08-151	Prime Minister! Let's start with the numbers. In 1990, at the time of the change of regime, the average income in Hungary was 14 percent higher than the minimum living; in 2004, at the time of our accession to the EU, it was 28 percent higher. Today, the average income is only 9 percent higher than the minimum level of living, i.e. the level of earnings above the minimum of living has decreased by a third compared to 2004. In Hungary, average earnings are 20 percent less than in Slovakia, 28 percent less than in the Czech Republic, 72 percent lower than in Austria. Mercedes, your strategic partner, generated EUR 83.8 billion worldwide in 2015, of which EUR 12.7 billion was spent on labour costs, i.e. 15% of the revenue. The same company spent just over EUR 70 million of the EUR 3.4 billion of revenue generated in Hungary on wage costs, i.e. only 2 percent of the revenue. And unfortunately, this is no more than the rest of the multinationals. Prime Minister! For the third time, I appeal to you about our EU wage initiative, but you still do not seem to understand the substance of this initiative. I would now like to draw your attention to this initiative again with the statistics of the HCSO you are supervising and Eurostat data. You try to use cosmetic statistics and propaganda to make people believe that the reality they perceive is already seen with their own eyes, different. You think people are completely stupid and try to believe that wages and living standards have increased since accession to the European Union, although that is not true. The multinationals you base your economic policy on don't want to spend money on wages. Prime Minister! I am asking you if you are finally willing to face Brussels in a real matter of fate instead of more extra actions and freedom fights in fake cases. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-152	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-05-08-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The Christian Democratic People's Party and the Fidesz government agreed in 2010 when we won the election to save Hungary from financial collapse. I feel that we have complied with this commitment, that the country's finances have been put in order, that the situation has been stabilised, that the public debt is falling. There are foundations for a successful and emerging economic policy.From 2013 onwards, there is an economic policy supporting growth in Hungary, resulting in wage increases from 2013 onwards. Of course, you can say that, and you usually say it's not enough. I agree with you, I don't think so. But when you look at the fact that they didn't grow before 2010, but rather decreased, it's also a performance that needs to be appreciated. What I do not understand is why Jobbik thinks that Hungarian people's wages will be raised in Brussels. I told you this earlier that it is incomprehensible that a centre of power such as Brussels, which governs the European Union, and which has been particularly favourable to the multinationals in most of its decisions with regard to Hungary so far, would now change its habit suddenly, and, for your two beautiful eyes, would suddenly decide against multinationals and to raise the wages of Hungarians. I can tell you, believe me, there is no one in the world but us who is interested in raising the wages of Hungarian people. [[12.10]] We must pursue a policy - and our government also pursues a policy - which will enable us to make decisions here in Hungary, create economic foundations that will enable wages to be increased. I think that anyone who expects Brussels to do so misinterprets international policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-154	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2017-05-08-155	Prime Minister, I am pleased in itself that you do not argue with the facts, and I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to draw your attention to Eurofound statistics which were published in April, according to which the minimum social mobility in the European Union is in Hungary. In other words, this is the least chance for a poor man to break out of poverty, the most unjust society in Europe in Hungary. In an unjust society, people are passive, renegade and unmotivated, and young people leave a country like this, leaving a homeless country, just as they are leaving it, Prime Minister. By the grace of God and the Hungarian people, you have won two-thirds of the election in the past, in 2010 and 2014, you have not taken advantage of this opportunity, you have abused it, you have not made a paradigm change, you have not created a fairer society in Hungary, but the opposite; in 2018 Jobbik also has to make a turn. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2017-05-08-157	Thank you very much. Although his question was not of a personal nature [[Márton Gyöngyösi: But the answer will be.]] Let me say, however, that when it comes to social mobility, you knock at the right place, because in Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party there are a large number of people who have not started their lives, we know exactly what we are talking about, we know how difficult it is to get ahead with work, study, talent and dedication [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] But we also know that this is possible, so for us, the just world means opening up the channels through which every Hungarian person has the opportunity to advance and implement their plans according to their diligence and talent. That's the policy we're pursuing, that's why we're working, that's what we're going to do in the future. You should not expect such a policy from Brussels. We will either make such a policy for Hungary or nobody will. For my part, I would like to make it clear that we are committed to bringing someone into any corner of Hungary, whatever family they are, to the opportunity to advance according to their diligence and talent. This is our political credo. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-158	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-05-08-159	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-05-08-160	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, When Fidesz and KDNP took over governance in 2010, the unemployment rate was around 12%. Thanks to government initiatives and economic growth, we have achieved that the number of registered job seekers has now fallen below 4.5 per cent and employment is above 68 per cent. In previous years, the competitive sector has not been able to create a sufficient number of jobs, which is why it was justified to increase public employment. In this transitional scheme, first and foremost, those who have received replacement employment support have not had the opportunity to establish employment in a longer period of time, in the absence of job opportunities, perhaps because of their educational attainment or because they have already fallen out of work practice. In particular, the public employment system has provided and continues to provide opportunities for people living in disadvantaged communities or those with low educational qualifications, job seekers without qualifications. They are the ones who have been given the opportunity in the social network, educational and cultural institutions of the settlements. The main aim of the system is to provide the state with work instead of aid to those in need and then lead them back to the world of work. At the same time, the government has taken further steps in the labour market: labour taxation, the job protection action plan and action to stimulate activity have been reduced, and employment has been continuously improving and improving, thanks to job-creating programmes. Dear Secretary of State, Due to the need for a competitive workforce, less than 210,000 people are now employed in public employment. The government plans to reduce this to 150,000 by 2020. I ask the Secretary of State: by what means does the government support the return of the public workers to the world of workers, because of the labour demand of the competition sector, does the public employment system change? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP began to govern, it was faced with the fact that the economy was on the verge of collapse. Hungary was forced to beg international credit institutions for money. We had to face this economic policy, this downward spiral, and to create an economic policy that restores hope to people, restores hope to people in the work, restores hope that creative work and diligence can move forward in the country. We have always thought of the system of public employment as a transitional system, and I still think that public employment is a temporary opportunity, a temporary help, which allows people who are excluded from the primary labour market to carry out real work in regular employment, in their own activities, in order to contribute to building their community, in order to ensure that regular employment does not give rise to an important, necessary agenda for society which is the basis for working. I think it is important that these people do not live on aid, they do not need to be privy to some kind of support, but to farm on the income they receive for their work. As the economic situation changes, it is possible for more and more people to return to the primary labour market and public employment to help return to the primary labour market, giving them the opportunity to participate in the primary labour market. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-164	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-165	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I am a Member of Parliament, where unemployment was very high in the 2000s, above 14 percent, and now we are experiencing a personal experience of increasing numbers of people getting jobs. [[Nándor Gúr: Abroad!]] in various companies, in the context of the competition sphere, and in the various settlements, I also find that public employment is now a kind of rank to be able to get in there. Because there are fewer and fewer people who will need it and need it. I am very confident that the measures and the changes in education that have been created in vocational training, dual training and the development of vocational training centres will make a major contribution to ensuring that new firms, new companies, have the right workforce and appropriate professionals. Thank you again for the Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2017-05-08-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Economic policy and employment policy are extremely complex and complex, obviously not within the remit of a single ministry or not of a State Secretary, but within the remit of the entire government. All that the Member has said about the Cegléd area is true in the country in both larger areas and in several settlements. Developments, economic developments that the government encourages, such as road construction, such as the construction of motorway 4, which now connects more and more areas to the circulation of the economy, all make it possible for businesses to create more and more jobs and, indeed, to return people from public employment to the primary labour market. [[12.20]] At the same time, we also know that there are, there will be people who will be able to benefit from public employment, employment with local authorities and public service providers, in the future, from a secure livelihood that can lead to family support based on work instead of a grant. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-168	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ákos Hadházy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what else does the government think of instead of a referendum? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-05-08-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Before 2010, Fidesz promised to be accounted for in 13 cases because of the affairs of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, two of these 13 cases are related to István Kocsis. I looked into it, Fidesz claims that he received an illegal severance pay of HUF 80 million during his MVM period, but he also had an interesting round in the BKV. You set up a committee of inquiry to assess the damage this gentleman has done there. He is currently in the process, and according to the prosecution, as Chairman and CEO of the MVM, ten billion have disappeared from the institution through fake contracts. Some of us in this country thought that coffee had been brewed for István Kocsis; instead of this coffee, he was given champagne just when your Minister of Paks, Mr. János Süli, was inaugurated and put into operation here in the Hungarian Parliament, István Kocsis was sitting in the lodge. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you what exactly you can do to account for István Kocsis. They had 13 promises, two of which were related to this gentleman. Then where is Fidesz accounted for? And then let's be honest about things. Will István Kocsis receive any government commission, for what reason was he placed in the box? If you were brave enough to tell me, on my immediate question, that you will appoint the Minister of Paks, also tell me what positions you intend to create about István Kocsis, what assignments this so-called businessman, professional, who is inherently related to socialists will receive. How good will Fidesz serve? I also want to know, Prime Minister - and I would like you to give a very clear answer - if you have been in Moscow with István Kocsis on any government matter since 2010. Did István Kocsis travel to Moscow to support Fidesz with the help of Fidesz, either in connection with Paks or in other matters? Thank you.
u2017-05-08-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-05-08-171	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm trying to fulfill your request, and I'll look into it for the next time. I must confess, my dear teacher, that I am unprepared, because the question you gave me was, "What else does the government think of instead of a referendum?" And so I couldn't collect the necessary statistical data, so I'm gonna have to take a break to present these to you the next time. But I can assure you that if we have a decision on the government application of the specialist in question, we will inform you of this before the decision is made, at the stage of preparation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-172	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2017-05-08-173	We have this great coalition about the atom between Fidesz and the socialists, but then let's discuss how communist the Hungarian government is. It was you, Prime Minister - and you may remember this - who said that we are not communists, that we should govern against the people, that we should withdraw it if you wish. Mr. Prime Minister, In our last conversation, you lectured me on the fact that, according to you, who voted for Fidesz in 14 years, you also voted for Paks. Now you are either consciously not telling the truth, or we assume you do not know the opinion of the Hungarian people, because according to recent research, there is another two thirds in this country, and those two thirds - and your voters are in a significant part - want a referendum on Paks, and you do not want the Paks enlargement at all, you think that you should have the right to give your opinion in a referendum. A significant part of them is indeed against the investment. The LMP has done everything in its power to help the people in this country. We have tabled referendum questions, we have tabled a constitutional amendment. I would like to know, Prime Minister, that if we present to you the evidence that even the Fidesz voters in the 14th were voting for you despite the expansion in Paks and not for that reason, you will guarantee that Fidesz will stand by the referendum, and if the Hungarian people express their opinion that they do not want Paks II, you will dance out of this treaty.
u2017-05-08-174	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2017-05-08-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to contradict - although I can see that there is a risk [[Defiance.]] - but I haven't lectured you once in my life, and I'm not going to. It is true that you are making me feel ashamed of men here, but I will always give you the respect that a congresswoman deserves in this House. As far as the specific issue is concerned, we have all played with clear points: you opposed the investment in Paks, and we supported it, so we started the election; people have decided, and we will implement the programme that we announced. I have a few more seconds, let me tell you that electricity costs 90 forints a kilowatt hour in Germany, and in Hungary the consumer pays 36 for the same energy today. We are not in a position to pay 90 forints for the quantity of energy in the kilowatts. We need Paks - if there's Paks, there's a reduction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-176	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "The socialist past is haunting me! Where did the parking money go from Szeged? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2017-05-08-177	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2017-05-08-178	I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-179	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to press reports, the socialist-led municipality of Szeged allocated more than three hundred free parking tickets between 2008 and 2012. According to the indictment in the case, the group of people enjoying free parking could be decided at a management meeting managed by the Socialist Mayor László Botka. Between 2008 and 2012, more than three hundred combined season tickets were issued free of charge, without legal background and without authorisation. They caused their city, Szeged, a financial disadvantage of some HUF 40 million. All this raises suspicion of a crime. István Ujhelyi's socialist MEP, László Botka's chief of staff and several other socialist representatives could park in the city for free. But as far as I know, there's someone on the list who didn't even have a driver's license. The District and Investigator's Office of Szeged has recently filed charges against six persons who have caused financial disadvantages to Szeged County City and the city-owned parking company with free parking tickets granted illegally between 2008 and 2012. László Solymos, Deputy Mayor of MSZP, Ervin Mózes, and Gábor Kalmár, the chief of staff of László Botka, sit on the bench of the accused. Dear Secretary of State, Do you think it's possible that László Botka didn't know about these actions and that he didn't give the free passes? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-180	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Police have an obligation under the Fundamental Law to investigate crimes. In the case of parking in Szeged, the police worked and did their work according to the legal possibilities. At the moment, the case is that the first trial was held at the Gyula City Court. Mayor László Botka is acting in the same way as Gordon Bajnai in the past. Mímel, pretending that he didn't know anything, as if he weren't there, but it's obvious that this case is so heavy that this type of miscopy is not enough, because the court case is going on. 307 free parking cards have been issued, from which Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament have also received mayor's office staff and police officers, but there are also several persons who are not physically connected to the City Hall in any way. For example, István Ujhelyi, MEP, could own two parking spaces at the same time. [[12.30]] Obviously, this is an interesting thing, because according to the old Hungarian saying, one can only ride a horse with an ass. How to get on this VIP list, on Botka's VIP list, we don't know that yet, but it's certainly interesting that Mayor Botka in Szeged didn't have to pay for parking. Honourable Congressman, It is difficult to imagine that in such a case, the mayor did not know what type of mechanism was in place, since there was no regulation of the General Assembly. This is a strange, unique Monopoly, a strange, unique board game with a field where free parking could be won. We trust in it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that there will be a field containing the prison's final destination. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-05-08-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to Mr Ujhelyi's double parking lot, you may have a car so big that you can't fit into a parking space. In any case, there are two important lessons to be learned from this case. László Botka is the Prime Minister's candidate. If this municipal decree had been amended, they could have given happy-happy free parking tickets. Another lesson, however, is that only words stand on the side of the poor László Botka and the MSZP [[Dr. László Varga: Do you adhere to the KRESZ?]] But in reality, actions prove that they help the rich. This is the case in Szeged, but it is also the case in Nyírbátor, where he was involved in the major gas theft of the MSZP personality, who collected signatures with János Veres to pay the rich. [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: You're a joke, man! Sit down.]] The line, I suppose, continues. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2017-05-08-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As I said, the police have conducted the procedure, and the case is currently in court. Obviously, the court proceedings will allow every detail to be made public, and it should indeed be visible how it was possible to be on the VIP list, which made sure that certain rich people, those rich people who are so dear to the Szeged city administration, would not pay even for the parking spot, but we know that this is not the only scandal in Szeged, because the affairs of the city administration are represented by the Szeviép scandal with the hundreds of injured entrepreneurs or the property declaration scandal, the tax increase plans. We see that the Mayor of Szeged, László Botka, takes it well with luxury travels, luxury vehicles, luxury conditions, who thinks that he is not subject to the payment of the rich. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-186	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, Head of Group, Fidesz Group, wishes to speak on a point of order. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-05-08-187	Thank you very much. At the end of the hour of immediate questions and answers, I appeal to the housekeeper with the following request. Please do something to put an end to the practice of a number of people asking an immediate question. [[Dr. László Varga: You haven't even closed it yet!]] They ignore the parliamentary law and the house rules, as they ask questions whose content does not relate to the title of the immediate question. This is wrong. [[Dóra Dúró: Or it's not the government's jurisdiction! Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Or complete genre debacle! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Break it up! You'd better get rid of it.]] I would like to ask for a resolution on the House Rule [[A statement from the MSZP: Can you do it after one of these?]] that the functioning of the House and the Members' contributions should be objective and house-based in the hour of immediate questions and answers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How dare you say such a thing?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-08-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Speaker on the basis of Mr Fraction Manager's speech. The relevant pass of the house rule specifies that the subject matter of the immediate question must be marked as an address. In this case, Mr Speaker, we ask for further action. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. I'm taking a 13-hour break. At 13 o'clock, the President of the Republic will take his oath. Thank you for your attention. [[Break: 12.35 13.07President: László Kövér Recorders: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Loránt Hegedűs]]
u2017-05-08-189	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. The benches of the MSZP are empty.]] I ask you to stand up and welcome President János Áder. [[The people in this room stand up while Dr. János Áder takes his place in the presidential box of the Republic.]] Thank you. [[The people in the room are sitting down.]] I also welcome Prime Minister Viktor Orbán [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Madam Mádl Dalma, former Prime Minister Péter Boross, all former and current public officials, leaders of Hungarian and cross-border historical churches, representatives of foreign Hungarian communities, members of the diplomatic body, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament, Members of Parliament, national representatives, all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press and everyone who is monitoring our meeting today. Dear Parliament, We now take the solemn oath of the President of Hungary. I'd like to ask you to stand up and receive the historic flags, and then sing the Anthem together. [[The people in this room stand up. The commanding officer shall enter through the entrance to the President's pulpit and request permission from the chairman of the Chamber to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber, who shall grant the authorisation. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit, and then, joining the initial voice given by a representative, those in the hall will sing the Anthem and then sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me also to welcome former Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy, and I apologize that I didn't notice him from a distance before. I'm losing my vision. I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, I now invite President János Áder to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I invite notary Lajos Szűcs to read out the vows, the members of the Parliament, to listen to them standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. János Áder enters the Chamber with a room-proof escort from the box and goes to the microphone. Notary Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2017-05-08-190	I, Dr. János Áder, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as President of the Republic for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-08-191	Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and Mr János Áder, President of the Republic, to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. János Áder and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. János Áder is the first to Viktor Orbán, then Lajos Kósa, János Volner, Péter Harrach, Gábor Fodor, Dr. Bernadett Szél, who is handing over a white rolled paper, and Dr. Ákos Hadházy and János Fuzik congratulates him.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the President of Hungary and wish him his work good luck, health and patience. [[Timea Szabó, standing on his seat as he raised a marionette puppet, on whose head a photograph of Dr. János Áder was recorded: not President of the Republic, a puppet. A statement from the ruling parties: Shame on you! The president's ringing the bell. Szabó Timea is constantly moving the puppet during Dr. János Áder's speech.]] I call on President János Áder to give his speech. [[Dr. János Áder enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2017-05-08-192	Mr. Speaker! Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, When I took office five years ago, I closed my speech with the following words. I am ready to do my share of the great task before the nation. In the years left behind, I made the representation of Hungarian interests and values, the appreciation of performance, the norm and the responsibility for future generations the central issue of my work as president. What you've done with the work you've undertaken is confirmed by the summary in front of you. However, there is plenty of work left. I would be honoured to help my work on these matters with your suggestions and comments. In my original intention, I wanted to talk about the five years ahead of us in relation to the previous issues. However, given the political talk over the last few months, I thought I was talking more about the year to come. [[13.10]] My conviction is that if we continue to do so, we will destroy everything we have built together since 1990. We're questioning everything, we're ignoring all, even tacit agreements, we're crossing every line. If we have the intention not to do so, we will find a historical example from which we can draw the strength to act: 1867, compromise. We only have to go back 150 years in time. Dear House, It would be good to agree on at least three things: we are all citizens of Europe; we all belong to the Hungarian nation; we all want a decent, honest, calm life. Let's take a look at the first question. We are and will remain citizens of Europe. In 1990 we agreed on the intention of joining the European Union regardless of party standing. In order to keep this consensus above the daily debates with the Brussels institutions, I recommend the thoughts of Ferenc Deák. In 1867, when the task was to coordinate the interests of the Habsburg Empire and the Hungarian nation, Deák argued in Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. One goal, then, is the firm existence of the empire, which we do not wish to subject to any other eyes. Another goal is to maintain Hungary's constitutional existence, its rights, its laws, of which more is to be taken than what the firmness of the empire is inexhaustible, neither justified nor appropriate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Let's exchange one word in the text: Empire. Let's hear it. One of the objectives is therefore the solid existence of the European Union, which we do not wish to subject to any other looks. Another goal is to maintain Hungary's constitutional existence, rights and laws, from which to take away more than what the European Union's firmness would inevitably require, neither justified nor appropriate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If Ferenc Deák were among us, would we hear his wise words? The second topic: we all belong to the Hungarian nation. I'm offering you two things. Give back the dignity of our national celebrations. Let us not compete in who can disturb the other's event, but in how we can make our own events more worthy of each other; how we can share seedy thoughts with the celebrators instead of actual political statements; how we can give respect to the young people of March or the revolutionaries of 56. The other issue is solidarity. Let us agree that the same attention, the same solidarity comes to those who are persecuted for their faith or belonging to a national minority as those who are persecuted for their origin. The responsibility for Hungarians living beyond the borders should not only remain a constitutional provision, but also become a joint programme across cycles. [[13.20]] Third, we all want a decent, honest, calm life. If we accept as a starting point that old and young people, believers and unbelievers, pro-government and opposition can agree on this, please consider the following. Family is sacred. The child is inviolable. After 1990, it was an implied agreement between us that family members who did not play a public role, especially children, were not part of the political discourse. Their lives are their private business. We politicians have nothing to do with it. Who, where, when, what he does, who has gender identity, religious beliefs, political consciousness - it's none of our business. And even if the tabloid media can't control itself from time to time, we don't have to go down this road and use the family, the children's issues, for an unspoken political attack. Finally, a few words about the state of public speaking. Not all the characters in our shared history have equally appreciated us. But we all respect Széchenyi, but we all quote Kossuth, and we all lift our hats before Ferenc Deák. Well, then, let's not just make it an empty speech catch, let's make it a resource. If we have learned something from them: if they have seen the future differently, if they have drawn a different conclusion from a given historical situation, no one, not even with the greatest bad faith, can deny it to all of them - and let me be a pathetic now - that they were floating in their homes. I ask you, why isn't that the standard today? Once again, I quote Ferenc Deák: not to trouble Hungary with inspiring thoughts, but to love by a series of common, useful, welfare-enhancing actions. .. in the House.. The quality of our public speech has recently deteriorated dramatically. I don't want to be responsible for all this here and now, but because of the political diversity, it's always government parties. It is not worth measuring: who first started who was the rougher, who first crossed a line. We have a shared responsibility for the state of public speaking. We have a shared responsibility for how you proceed. There's a year before the election. Most voters certainly don't want to live on top of a volcano that's about to erupt. Question: "We give each other due respect, do we compare arguments, facts with facts - or anger with passions." We learn from Ferenc Deák's temperament, who said in his speech in the House of Representatives in March 1867 that some terms, which may have been handled more sharply against me, I will not return the same. Such reprehensions do not change the subject of the dispute, nor do they promote the future of the country. It's up to us. And I'm not talking about the fact that there can't be a difference of opinion between us. There was, there will be. Of course we can see how we can appreciate the same situation differently. I'm talking about our own self-esteem, the destructive power of public speaking. Where else are we gonna get to, we're just gonna have to smirk at each other. You shouldn't! I want you to think about all this. As inspiration, let me take the first step. Here and now, I will follow all those who, under my Presidency, have been offended or offended by a wrong sentence, an angry remark, or a harsh use of words. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.30]] Dear House, In Kossuth's famous Cassandra's letter, Deák goes, "I see that... that our nation is in danger at the slippery fad of legal surrenders, more than in danger, will be put to death." Kossuth's contentious sentences are often quoted. The two statesmen now disagreed on almost nothing. But the address and tone of the letter are respectful. My friend... We were not only relatives of principle, but we were friends, in the more noble sense of the word, through a better period of our men's time, as we went in one more direction on the path of patriotic duty. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Severe criticism and respect for the other can be well matched in the letter. Let's learn something. Let us have a common resource for reform, the id of March, 1867, 1956, and when we compare our arguments, always have the same four words before our eyes: Home in front of everything! [[He folds his head and then leaves the speaker's stand. A long applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. János Áder is going to the President's box with a room guard escort.]]
u2017-05-08-193	I thank the President of the Republic for his speech. Dear Parliament, To conclude the session, I would like to ask that we sing the Vocabulary together and then stand up and accept the withdrawal of the Hungarian national flags and historical flags. [[Joining the initial voice given by a representative, the people in the room stand up and sing the Word together. Following the Vocabulary, the commanding officer comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room next to the sound of the fanfares. When László Fats, the Speaker of Parliament, takes a seat, the people in the room sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I thank our guests for their presence, and I thank you for your dignified contribution. (Sunning:13.32, 14.30 President: Sándor Lezsák Note: Attila Móring József and Loránt Hegedűs)
u2017-05-08-194	I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and colleagues. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-08-195	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik continued to fight during the winter and then in the early spring months to extend the eviction moratorium until the government helped citizens trapped in so-called foreign exchange loans, the citizens concerned, out of their needy situation. I do not say that you will save it, because none of the foreign exchange people are waiting for a rescue package and not for aid, but merely for justice, so that if someone took up their so-called loan at 165 HUF, they should not be looking at a market price of 256 HUF, but within the framework of some kind of fair settlement process. I want these people's legalized looting eliminated. Then we could not find understanding ears in this regard, so the eviction moratorium has expired, and we can safely say - not at all calmly, but regretfully - that the number of evictions has gone to an amazing record level and is spinning up. We have also seen that, looking back for two or three years in the last quarter cycles, it was not the clever intervention of the government that prevented them from evacuating more apartments, but in many cases simply the executives and often the financial hyenas could not find a buyer for the properties to be emptied or the auctions failed. In thousands of cases, this was the only thing that saved families from the shameful eviction. But our demand is clear, if there is such a mass surge in the evacuation of apartments and properties, then the government should finally act, not wait for the summer, looking calm months, start an action that can be measured on several roads. On the one hand, the extension of the eviction moratorium, at least the consideration of this, would be justified, and the government should also consider that, while there are hundreds of thousands of vacant properties in Hungary - obviously not private property, but the public or municipal property mass - while part of the public work programme is sensible, but let us state that another part of the public work programme is completely meaningless, so perhaps there would be free public employment capacity to make some of the vacant property available in such a way. Where appropriate, help could also be given to credit victims who need to be placed in a block, not in a way similar to the housing park in Ocsa, but to return their fair living opportunities. I say return because most of these people came from the productive sphere of society, worked, paid taxes, then occurred either a social, family krach, or a mere impossibility of credit repayment, and in many cases their lives collapsed, lost their jobs, unfortunately, they also failed to pay off one loan, and a spiral developed that this government could not fully alleviate. Although it was written out on the billboards that the banks had been accounted for, the truth is that hundreds of thousands of credit-damaged people continue to be unduly burdened. Thirdly, we would like to ask you, not to ask you, but to demand that the playing of the National Asset Manager be finally stopped. For months, we have asked you to note that there are only five hundred properties left in the National Asset Manager, and it would make much more sense to do this with a hat open from above, because with a budget open from above, it is possible that no matter how many claimants come, the bank's permission should not necessarily count on whether or not the National Asset Manager can sign up to it, but that there should be a budgetary framework for this. The current very bad situation is that there is not necessarily a budgetary framework, so the number of contracts available that can be concluded is limited, and from the other direction, it is the bank that offers virtually permission to contract the asset manager. In the case of a specific example in Kispest, we see that he has already fled to liquidation, the financial institution that should be allowed to assist the asset manager has already disappeared. So scandalous situations arise, which should be dealt with so that at least this part-solving thing is available to injured families. We can see that only a Jobbik government would dare and I hope to take on the forinting of loans at the rate of admission, since I must say that the Government of Jobbik will be absolutely determined in this regard - the question is when. If you have to wait another year for this, it is also a great deal for foreign exchange credit victims. So we demand that the government show at least some activity in relation to these partial solutions in the meantime, not wait until the next elections, not only because those who have suffered foreign exchange credit will punish you for doing nothing, but also because of purely philanthropic love, because it is not possible to leave these unduly unworthy families in this chasm. They need help, let's give them this help. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond to what has been said.
u2017-05-08-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Luckily, in recent years, it has not been Jobbik who has been entrusted with the help of foreign exchange credit victims, because those who also expect to raise Hungarian wages from Brussels would probably have begun to deal with the problem of foreign exchange lenders in the same way, and then we would not have held it here, where we are fortunately now that hundreds of thousands of families are not at risk of direct eviction, but when it comes to housing, it is rather the family's home-building benefits that come to mind - the CSOK - and not the foreign currency-credit problem. But this was not the case seven years ago, at the time it was a firefighter's nature, and then a debt-saving package had to be presented here to Parliament, for which we thank all those who gave support to it by vote or otherwise. We have developed a five-point home protection action plan, introduced the exchange rate barrier, limited the auctioning of residential properties, created the National Asset Manager, which can help families with socially dependent mortgage debt, and from a quarter to a quarter of the foreign exchange-based housing loan was subject to conditions so that such a situation would not happen again and that it would not be irresponsible to build up foreign currency loans, and from the fifth, we increased the state interest rate on home protection. With the National Asset Manager, we were able to help 35,000 families, make their housing secure for 35,000 families, and, of course, the National Asset Manager will always help families in the future. Apparently, a National Asset Management Forint may be associated with HUF 1.7, so they can continue to keep these people safe in their homes and continue to live in their own apartments. It was important for banks to be accounted for and forinted. We can remember when they said that the Hungarian banking system would fall if Fidesz-KDNP went through with it. Fidesz-KDNP took it through, the banks didn't fall for it, but people were helped to the extent that others might not have expected that they could forint their foreign exchange loans well below the market price. With this outflow, HUF 3600 billion of loans were forinted in Hungary, so that many people became more predictable about the repayment. As a result of bank accountability, the burden of 1.3 million Hungarian families was reduced by HUF 1000 billion. The monthly repayment of Swiss-based housing loans decreased by an average of 26 thousand HUF. In addition, we have introduced the possibility of family bankruptcy, with which 835 cases have already been initiated, which will help 835 families and we have also amended the implementing law in order to be able to represent the interests of debtors or former debtors as much as possible. Local solutions can therefore be created locally, and local authorities have the legal opportunity to do so if they want to prevent a social situation from becoming homeless with a family. [[14.40]] So there is plenty of room for both the National Asset Manager and the municipalities to do so. A few months ago, you may remember how much the law of enforcement was attacked from both banking and other sides, and now Jobbik is attacking it; from the bank side, obviously, to be too strict, from Jobbik's side to being too easy. I believe that a good way has been found when performing debtors also have the opportunity to retain their housing with a smaller financial opportunity, but at the same time, who can, too, is paying, because their debt, at least its capital, must be repaid. The number of empty apartments can be lived many times, but the problem is that empty apartments are not usually where people, families who would move into empty homes, often not where they would be working. So if you move to a small settlement where there really is a lot of vacant properties, you probably can't find a job there, there's already a shortage of workers in larger cities, and obviously there's no more social housing offered. However, we said that people should not live in a rental apartment, but that more than HUF 200 billion is spent on housing subsidies this year, we give it to people through the benefit of housing for families. In 2010, Fidesz-KDNP did not take sides with the banks, like the MSZP-SZDSZ, but with the people; it carried out debt-saving packages against which almost all international financial organisations protested. But we have succeeded in doing so, and we have preserved the housing of many tens of thousands of people, and we have been able to contribute to financial security for hundreds of thousands of families. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-08-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary also applied for a post-scheduled speech. It's an address. You have the floor, notary, in five minutes.
u2017-05-08-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Today, the happier half of Europe celebrates the end of World War II, the day of victory. 72 years ago, on 8 May 1945, many people in Hungary believed that after many horrors, cruel ordeals and irreplaceable losses in recent years, the new spring could finally bring about the rapid reconstruction not only of the country destroyed in bloody battles, but also of true freedom and democracy. This confidence was broken down by the Hungarian Communists returning behind the bayonets and tanks of the Red Army, murdered, imprisoned, silenced, forced into internal emigration or driven away by the best of our nation. One occupation has been replaced by another, so we Hungarians cannot view this anniversary today as the countries that have never experienced Russian oppression and communist terror. Although the Red Army left our country after the change of regime, it remained here and still haunted us in the name of countless toxic monuments of communism, streets, public squares, schools, dorms, sculptures and monuments. But former agents, as well as pro-state leaders, i.e. those who maintain and serve the dictatorship, could go skydiving without problems to comfortable and, where appropriate, respected jobs, or enjoy undisturbed luxury pensions. Dear Parliament, I myself have spoken in this House on several occasions in order to deal with the red past that still lives with us today. I am pleased that some of my suggestions have since been crowned with success. For a few years ago, the government renamed the Szeged training gymnasium named after the communist police killer, Endra Ságvári, who became a movemental mass of dictatorship. Recently, the statue of the red philosopher György Lukács, who served the three communist dictatorships in Hungary, was broken down by the XIII. Szent István Park, district, and the statue of our Holy King, who founded the state, will soon be in place at the initiative of Jobbik. There is, of course, work in many places, even in this district, as Gyula Horn, who was a former Pufakás Prime Minister, who took part in the reprisals following the 1956 revolution, can continue to be a public statue of Gyula Horn as an informant of state security in Angyalföld. But to this day, one of the students of Corvinus University bears the name László Rajk, Minister of the Communist Interior, a mass murderer, who was recently protected by the Secretary of State. Today, the country is full of April 4th streets, Liberation Squares and Red Army roads. The most visible inscriptions of Budapest's bridges, which have evolved into a metropolitan city, still feed socialism. Dear Parliament, Not only is the dead stone proclaiming communism with us now. Recently, László Lehel, the president of the Ecumenical Assistance Organization, who knew the Prime Minister's wife, Aniko Lévai, worked under the alias Philosophus, in cooperation with Communist State Security and engaged in agency activities. How is it possible that only now, 27 years after the change of regime, all this has been revealed? I mean, it's XX. In recent decades, the parties of the century have successfully protected former agents working in their ranks and prevented not only the disclosure of the agents' files, but also the exclusion from public life of those who once held the leading position in the party state. Ladies and gentlemen, A homeless Chechen man living in Budapest recently discussed death threats on the Internet about a Hungarian citizen. Then, in a peaceful conversation, he convinced her to apologize in a public video for throwing paint at the lying and provocative Soviet monument in Liberty Square. In addition, this apology was strangely forced to me by a Chechen, whose country, if possible, was more trampled by Moscow than its country. And the Hungarian authorities stand by and watch a stranger publicly threaten a Hungarian citizen in such a case. Jobbik's opinion has long been clear: the memorial of the Red Army invading and looting our country, desecrating our daughters, our women, bringing our sons and men to the depths of the Siberian lagoons, belongs in the Statue Park and cannot further defile one of our symbolic pasts. Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XX So in the last decades, the Communist successor party and the once-combat anti-communist Fidesz have failed to deal with the legacy of the red past. When Gergely Pongrátz, the legendary commander of Corvin Public, turned Jobbik into a 2003 party, the flag with a hole in it guarantees that he will take down all the remnants of communism that bring so much suffering to our nation until today, on the Government of Jobbik. Jobbik will protect this country, not only from threats coming from the West and the South, but also from threats coming from the East. We, right-handers, will make the dream of the Pest boys come true, and we will create a proud, independent and livable Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2017-05-08-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What we are asking of you is that when the Betterman achieves the legacy of the Pest boys, it will not be left to their MEP, KáGébéla, to actually achieve what the Pest boys have dreamed of; I think this would be a desecration of their memory. In the past seven years, Fidesz-KDNP has done much to compensate both the victims of the communist regime and to present the horrors of that time, in connection with the discovery of the past. It is well known that, among the victims of the Communist dictatorship, those who have suffered a more permanent prison sentence, we greatly increased their compensation pension supplement three to four years ago, and those who have suffered a minor retaliation, their pension supplement increases by 60 percent on 1 January this year and another 40 percent on 1 January next year. At the same time, we took away their pension supplement, their pension allowance, from those communist leaders who had some kind of [[István Szávay intervenes.]] [[István Szávay intervenes.]] They received communist recognition or other recognition, not on the basis of real performance, but on the basis of party loyalty, they have reduced their pension, and we have been sued, but we have taken the pension allowance for Rumány Rezsők and Béla Biszku over the last seven years. In the same way, the street signs that were linked to any dictatorship, but primarily to the communist dictatorship, had to be removed by law (István Szávay intervenes). This is how street signs disappeared in many places in Budapest; where there was doubt, they asked the opinion of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. During the Hungarian EU Presidency, the first day of commemoration of the European Union, together with our Lithuanian and Polish friends, was created on 23 August, which remembers not only the victims of the Holocaust, but also the victims of the communist dictatorship, XX. It is the anniversary of the signing of the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, when Nazi Germany agreed with Hitler at the head of the regime and Stalin at the head of the Communist Soviet Union, what they wanted to do with the eastern half of Europe in the coming years. This shows how well the two dictatorships have found each other, and this shows that those who wish to make a great difference between the two have a double standard, especially in a country where there was no communism. We created the National Remembrance Committee, which examined the data content on magnetic tapes, and it either published most of them or proposed their publication. This is a part of the communist past that has not yet been known, and from which the public can learn much about the beneficiaries of the communist regime and the operators of the communist regime, which is also available on the Internet. So much for the red past. [[14.50]] And as for the red future, honourable Member, the party that is sitting at the table with Gyula Molnár, who is the president of Moscow [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Why are you lying? You're full of communists! What are you talking about? Think about it.]] The Hungarian Socialist Party, and Ferenc Gyurcsány, and at the same table they smile, they have a pleasant conversation in front of the entire Hungarian press, and they come into Parliament, they are communist here, and they say that you are going to implement an anti-communist program, then you are going to go to a tent with Gyurcs, in a tent with Gyula Molnár... - you should decide which way you are actually going! [[István Szávay: We were with the unions. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why do you lie?]] We can see it, because Gyurcsány was there, Gyula Molnár was there, you were there, your party was there. [[István Szávay: The trade unions were there.]] Your party was there, they accepted the invitation, so they knew who would be there. [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] They knew who was gonna be there. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] You seem to be in a lot of pain, because you still have some national feelings, which, apparently, is no longer in the leadership of your party, but you may still have some, and that's why it hurts you. But this fact, ladies and gentlemen of the Congress, everyone could see it on TV, everyone could see it in the photos: you were selling on a piece with Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gyula Molnár. Soul on it! Thank you very much.
u2017-05-08-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meeting speech: Where is the limit of insolence? [[István Szávay: There!]] Or, how much can you make a living? It's an address. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You should be proud of yourself!]] The word is Ander Balázs, in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-08-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are used to reminding the extreme liberals of the double standards of the Mosaic laws, unfortunately we also have to do this in principle against the Christian government side. In your bag do not have two kinds of weights, one heavier and one lighter. In your house, do not keep two scales, a larger one and a smaller one. Let your weight be flawless and accurate, flawless and accurate. Because it is an object of hatred in the eyes of the Lord, who does this, who cheats. Fidesz, the great master of double standards, has only seen cynicism and greed, as demonstrated by the new stage of the Fidesen lifestyle dispute, where, according to the Fidesz gentlemen, there are 47 thousand on the one hand and 470 thousand on the other, because politicians, especially if they are pro-government, can't make a living. It's a memorable saying by Marcell Zsiga, which, with his impertinent stupidity, has signed himself into the great lexicon of stupidity forever. He says that when it comes to ordinary citizens, you can make a living out of 47,000. But he may have foreseen his good things, that his hands would not be let go by his pro-government friends, and by the Gambling Company. They're making him the communications director, where 47,000 comes out just once a day. Well, there really is a way out of this. The millions of Hungarian workers wish him strength, health and good work, especially from South Somogy, wiped from the map. László Pintér, a Fidesz representative of the General Assembly of Zala County, recently talked about how few politicians pay, since poor people can't make a living from 470 thousand a month. Says this in a country where 4 million people are vegetating below the minimum level of existence, where 8 million people do not even have enough money to cover an unexpected, otherwise smaller expenditure, where workers' poverty and resulting child poverty are only competitive at Romanian and Bulgarian levels. How did we get here? By the fact that every government has played a false song from the sheet music of the multis and their own oligarchs since the derailed regime change, according to which this is an early-born welfare state, as was lied by the fathermaster of the extreme liberals, János Kornai. Since it came out of both the false left and Fidesz Soros' cloak, it is no wonder that they blew this neoliberal dogma together, which means underfunding of national human capital sub-systems, keeping wages low, reducing workers' rights. This led straight to the fact that according to the World Economic Forum's competitiveness survey, we are only 113 of the 138 countries under investigation, while Slovakia is 53. According to the pro-government paradigm, therefore, the Hungarians should slave only at the bottom of the global value chains of multi-company companies, if necessary, with one day of rest, for years unpaid overtime, for miserable wages in assembly plants. While the philanthropist Robert Owen announced the principle of 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest, 8 hours of recreation 200 years ago, it was once again out of the government bag, since if the intention had not been broken by the resistance and will of the workers, they would have written a new slave law for the Hungarian workers. Marcell Zsiga, László Pintér, Mr.Erik Bánki, if he did not look at the voters who left their taxes as some Victorian British traveler to the natives of the English colonies, then perhaps it would be possible to avoid spitting the Hungarian workers against such provocations in order, perhaps even to ease the post-commie, new-feudal sausage, which is today. Perhaps it would be better for the government not only to send a message to Brussels, but also to give the Junckers a hard-core validation of equal pay for equal work. The average Hungarian doesn't live, but only vegetals out of 47,000, but doesn't dare to dream of 470 thousand, even though he only wants a normal life, a life where he dares to start a family with 8 hours of work, to have children, where he can keep these children with honor, where it is not a luxury, let's say, a week's vacation in Balaton in the summer, where it is not a luxury to attend a cultural event on the weekend, or he has to choose between bills and prescription at the end of the month. Answer that, my dear Secretary of State. And stop lying and start coordinating quickly, say, with the unions, just like the Jobbik will do, by the way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because we didn't go to the Mayal on Gyurcsány's call, but because the Hungarian employees' representative bodies called us (The President indicated the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell. ) and we will listen to them. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-08-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2017-05-08-205	[[István Szávay: Maybe you're not lying right now?]] I'll pick up where Congressman left off. [[Gergely Farkas: So you're lying again? Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Of course it hurts him the most, but they sit next to each other, Péter Juhász, Balázs Ander - you are speaking now - Gyula Molnár, Anett Bősz, Erzsébet Schmuck and Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's right, it's... [[Tamás Pintér intervenes.]] Excuse me, Congressman? Could you repeat that, Congressman? [[István Szávay: Oh, no! The president's ringing the bell.]] Can you repeat that? He's ashamed. No wonder you're ashamed, I wouldn't repeat it if I were you.
u2017-05-08-206	Secretary of State...
u2017-05-08-207	You didn't hear that from me, honourable Members. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Your life is a provocation! That's all you know how to do. Just don't lie.]] They didn't hear that from me. I listen to a lot of you here. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We pro-government representatives are being provoked a lot, but we don't yell at you like that. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Noise.]]
u2017-05-08-208	I call on the representatives of Jobbik. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I want them to stop. Secretary of State, continue.
u2017-05-08-209	Thank you very much. What is important, ladies and gentlemen, is how much more people have a job today than before, five or seven years ago. 700,000 more people are working now than they were working seven years ago. It is also important to see how much more people earn on average than they did seven years ago. They make 60,000 forints more than seven years ago. It is also important how the public burden that people have to pay for has been reduced. It has been reduced to such an extent that 130 thousand or 100 thousand according to different calculations, according to various sheets... - and there is a family who does not have to pay taxes or contributions, and one million families use tax incentives and benefits in the family-type taxation system. This government is drawing much less from families living in work than previous governments did. We have created jobs for more people, people can earn more, and families, working families, are less deprived of their incomes by the state. This is a change to the small amount of money that we stated in the Fundamental Law that Hungary's economy is based on value-making work. Today, a man who does a work of value can take home more than six years ago. And indeed, honourable Member, you have spoken of a holiday and much more. Hundreds of thousands more Hungarians can now afford to go on holiday for at least a week in the summer, hundreds of thousands less Hungarians now face problems in paying their rent. Because this government dared to engage in a conflict of national interest either with Brussels or with multi-company companies, and it was able to reduce the fees, to which hundreds of economists had taken the great oath that they could not do this, that it did not exist, that would be impossible, that would result in bankruptcy of companies and that would be unsustainable. This government has proven to be able to engage in conflicts with the strongest international companies when it comes to helping people who live on wages and salaries, those who have the greatest difficulty in paying their bills. Maybe now Jobbik doesn't care, maybe now that Simicska's been paying your rent, they're less interested. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The oligarchs have helped you to govern three times! What are you talking about?]] For many Hungarians, however, the many thousand forints that can be saved from month to month mean a great deal. [[15.00]] We are still working on that, honourable Member, and we are not asking for the alliance of Ferenc Gyurcsány or Gyula Molnár on a political basis. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] But we're working to keep people's wages growing. As the wages of teachers will increase from 1 September this year, the wages of nurses will increase from 1 November, the wages of doctors will increase from 1 November, the wages of workers in armed bodies will continue to increase, the wages of government officials working in district offices, who direct the affairs of citizens, we will work on this: further tax cuts, whether on basic food or on ordinary labour. We will be working on further wage increases, and this is based on real economic additional performance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-08-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a post-meeting speech on the problems of Bősárkány, Markotaböge, Maglóca and Barbacs. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Since I travel the area and constituency of Rábaköz quite a lot, and I talk to settlement leaders, spiritual leaders, leaders of civil society organisations, citizens who live in the region, I thought it was time to gather the most important problems they have said and present them to the Parliament, because most of them have been waiting for a few decades to be treated. Barbacs is currently living in 731 souls. It lies on the edge of Hanság, on the western side of the former Tóköz, five kilometers from Csorna. His first written memory is from 1220. At that time, it belonged to the royal treasury, and its story went on through several noble families. These noble family rotations have often caused conflicts with settlements in the area. The population, as usual in the Hanság and Tóköz region, initially lived from fishing, and each site belonged to an area, a surface of water that contained the fishing rights of that land. Bősárkány is the largest of these settlements mentioned today. Today, 2046 souls live, but it is sad to say that they had many more inhabitants, for example, in 1940 there were 2,400 souls. Also mentioned in writing from the 1220s, to be more precise from 1222, was also inhabited by fishermen. Farming was not typical at that time. And just like the other settlements, it can be said that every time there was some serious external threat, the people who lived here were able to escape to the swamps of Hanság, a higher area. This was also the case with the Bősárkányi in 1529 when the Turks crossed the settlement against Vienna. In fact, by 1584, there were only five families left, but later there were some sad years, as the storms of history came through the area. Maglóca currently has only 93 people, 93 people live in the settlement, which is very sad, as it was a more prosperous settlement in the past. It is 9 kilometers from Csorna, and I think it is worth mentioning that there is a particularly beautiful, valuable oak stock in the region, where there is even beech. Anyone who knows wood species must be surprised at this corner of the Kisaland. It was inhabited from ancient times, also mentioned from 1220. It is worth mentioning in connection with the Freedom Fights of 1948-49 that three soldiers were given by the settlement, and Márton Dombos, captain of the free team, came from here. Markotabög: 474 people were counted in 2015. It is also located in the Tóköz, and since 1990 it has been a separate settlement again. These are the broad lines I wanted to tell you about the settlements. What are the problems that I constantly encounter in all four settlements I have mentioned? The path network in deplorable condition. And here I would like to point out that I do not want to raise the responsibility of the municipalities in the first place, because most of the municipal roads are already okay, or at least they have applied for it to be okay. Rather, I am talking about the road operator, the road network under his responsibility, which really refers to medieval conditions. The possibility of access to health systems is also a continuous problem that the locals tell us. I do not want to live in a country, and I can say this on their behalf, where if a person is born in a small settlement, he has a significantly worse chance of accessing the same services than a Hungarian citizen born in a city. We need to make major changes here, and let me mention the example of Austria, which lies a few kilometres away from this area, and where the chances of accessing these services were at least as bad, at least in the 1970s compared to the urban ones, the same disproportionateness was found, but with the appropriate use of the European Union and its resources, this difference was reduced to almost zero. Almost everywhere, it is said that the delay in the TOP and VIP applications, the decision on them and the implementation of them are still far from the future, so I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives to the fact that even you will not be able to pass on so many applications, so there are not as many days before the elections that they want to hand over the sidewalk, the road and the area to be built by other sources of tender. In addition, there are many public institutions that cause serious budgetary problems and anomalies by submitting the application for renewal, touching it, but not being able to, because there is no adequate source for this. And there's a lot of other problems, but that's all I can tell you right now without my time. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-08-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Bodó, from Fidesz, also applied for an after-the-meet speech:. More support for the elderly! Development of signal system in 63 settlements! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-08-213	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Government of Hungary has paid particular attention to improving the quality of life of our elderly over the last seven years. Our goal is to be able to live in a country where we can provide every generation with opportunities that make their lives easier and simpler. For this reason, a few weeks ago - and it is joyful that this was the case - the development with the Ministry of National Development's management, resulting in the provision of home computer, laptop and Internet usage to 5,000 elderly people living alone over 65. It should be pointed out that, in addition to all this, there are 1,500 alarm clocks for our elderly, which are used to measure health data. I'm sure you're familiar with this device, perhaps with relatives, acquaintances who can use it. It's simple, but I have to say, a lot of help equipment in an emergency, because you can send a signal to the designated person who is meant to be able to receive it with one touch. 63 municipalities took the lead in this program, and among them are the settlements of Püspökladány from our constituency. With this decision, this cooperation will ease the living conditions of those living there and simplify the work of the social and health care system. Respecting our elders, paying attention and caring for our elders can never be a mandatory task. It is not because it is an unspoken expectation in all societies, but because we believe in the values and principles that family unity means. We believe that all that we have is thanks to the fact that the previous generations have lived their lives and that we have been thinking in unity. The unity of our nation can be determined by this strong bond between generations in the future. Sadly, old age is often associated with sickness and loneliness. Even if we do not generalize it, we must acknowledge these two difficult but more important facts. It is our job to find solutions and offer solutions to these life situations as far as our options are concerned. The main message of the programme mentioned above is that the government wants to improve the living situation of older people and reduce the burden on older people. It is also important to highlight that by designing the signalling system it will be ensured that everyone can stay in their own home and still feel safe. This is a relief for families and for all relatives. Leaving a home built and customary over decades is a psychological task even for those whose physical health is normal; and here the health of the soul can also improve the health of the body. We need to take advantage of the opportunities provided by modern technology, making our lives easier and safer. In the system implemented, the operation will be the task of the dispatching services established by the municipalities. In addition to positive health and elderly outcomes, it can also be said that according to the Ministry's data, nearly 1110 people with human and 250 major technical qualifications are involved, thus ensuring work for these people. Thus, in our constituency, the city of Bishopladány took advantage of this opportunity to join this program, thus making it easier and safer to care for and protect the people there. As the social institution of the settlement also carries out regional tasks, it is hoped that this can become increasingly popular and widespread in the surrounding settlements. [[15.10]] We can see, therefore, that the issue raised is diverse and has a number of challenges to address and, fortunately, good solutions. I think that this programme is very important for all of us. I hope that by providing additional resources in the near future, we will be able to further increase the number of people involved in the programme and to provide this opportunity for more elderly people to live a safe, peaceful life. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2017-05-08-214	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Bodo. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 15 May 2017. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:12 p.m.]] Mrs Loránt Violin Sz.k.
