u2017-04-20-0	I welcome my fellow Members to this meeting. The 17th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Mr. József Attila Móring will help me. Welcome to our guests. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the amendment of certain laws on foreign affairs administration and other laws relating to the provision of permanent external service pending closure. The government referral is T/15069. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, On 13 June 2016, the Parliament adopted the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service. In addition to the classic diplomatic tasks, the task and toolbox of Hungarian foreign policy have not only been consolidated by the adoption of the law and the creation of foreign administration involving the foreign economy and cultural and scientific diplomacy. The law is independent, it includes, in addition to the operation of foreign representations, the basic provisions of permanent foreign service. Structurally, it is twofold: it regulates the operation of the Permanent Representation of Hungary to the European Union, hereinafter referred to as the "EU CSA', which was necessary as a result of its complexity and priority role. The law was not put into effect in a uniform manner as it entered into force on 1 August 2016 and covered all the regulatory issues relevant to the functioning of the EU's CIS. The provisions of the Act shall enter into force on 1 August 2017 in respect of all delegations outside the EU CSA. The present bill aims to address the practical experience of everyday operation, leaving unchanged the conceptual content of the Permanent External Service Act, and to provide technical clarifications. The bill also makes changes to other related laws, which also concern certain administrative issues concerning foreign affairs, which aim at a smoother functioning of the foreign affairs administration and the creation and refining of legislative frameworks. By amending the law on compulsory health insurance benefits, the bill also addresses the issue of healthcare for those posted to the external service and for their families. By amending the Foreign Travel Act, the scope of holders of diplomatic passports will be extended. The amendment is a solution to the long-standing need for fellow citizens and their accomplices to receive diplomatic and foreign service passports. Without an official passport, the settlement of the partner's or ascendant status abroad with the delegate is problematic in a number of relations. In the absence of an official passport and the privileges and immunities associated with it, they are subject to the general rules of the host country on foreign immigration, which are often not possible to comply with, given that the persons concerned do not arrive in that country for work or study purposes. Since the activity of the representative of the European Parliament in Hungary abroad is similar to the permanent external service of diplomats, the proposed amendment should be extended to them in its entirety. In view of the fact that the management of the Permanent Representation to the European Union falls under the direction of the Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office, the amendment also creates the right to the official passport for the diplomatic staff of the Ministry headed by the Minister for the Coordination of European Union Affairs in order to facilitate their work. The amendment to the consular protection law allows the provisions on the appointment and application of all staff performing consular duties at the foreign representations to be regulated at the statutory level. The proposed provisions are in line with the regulatory process for regulating the relations between foreign affairs administrations, including the Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act and related legislation. The need to settle the rights of employees involved in the performance of consular duties is also reflected in the provisions of the consular law of the abovementioned staff. Through the amendment of the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, consular representations led by the diplomatic and official consular officers in Hungary, international organisations and their offices, offices and offices in Hungary, as well as members of organisations with privileges and immunities and their family members' residence in Hungary would not count towards the period of residence in Hungary. The amendment is justified by the fact that the application for a residence permit for this category is not submitted by the holder himself, but by the State or international organisation of dispatch, since the person sent is not, in fact, the subject of the proceedings but the beneficiary. In international law, privileges and immunities are based on the hypothesis that a person enjoying a status based on international law is quasi-resident in the host country and is therefore not subject to its jurisdiction. Thus, it would be contrary to the established individual status if the residence permit thus issued were to be considered as a period of residence in Hungary. Following the provisions of the Act on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information and the practice that has been established since then, it is clear that only the reference to the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations as a legal basis is insufficient to operate the register containing the data of diplomats led by the KKM, i.e. data processing and communication of data to the authorities. The amendment provides a clear legal mandate for the management of data and for the fulfilment of the related official requests, which are already the file of the portfolio responsible for external relations, which has already been voluntarily provided. The reason for the 30-year period of data processing is that certain persons with diplomatic immunity often perform missions in Hungary on several consecutive occasions, and it is therefore appropriate that data relating to their former Hungarian foreign services are available for a longer period. By amending the law on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid, Hungary will be able to implement international development policies through membership fees and voluntary contributions to international organisations and international development funds, i.e. through multilateral contributions. Hungary has been a member of the OECD Development Assistance Committee since 6 December 2016 and a general non-project-based contribution to international organisations can be reported as multilateral official development aid. The OECD Development Assistance Committee shall determine, on the basis of the activities of international organisations, the extent to which contributions can be counted as multilateral ODA. [[9.10]] The purpose of the amendment to the International Development Cooperation and International Humanitarian Aid Act is to include all activities carried out within the framework of international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid policy, the content of the publicly available database led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and to include the status of civil society organisations under the Civil Code Act, the Law on Merger, Public Use Status and the Act on the Functioning and Support of Civil Organisations and the European Community Council Regulation on Humanitarian Aid. The basic condition of the pre-certification is that the organisation is a civil society organisation qualified as a public benefit organisation. The amendment of the Foreign Representations and the Permanent External Service Act aims at technical clarification, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to introduce the possibility of informal working hours, working hours and unequal working arrangements, as well as the associated additional rules, and, on the other hand, to introduce rules on extraordinary work by establishing rules other than the Public Service Officers Act. The reason for the amendments is that, due to the nature of diplomatic work, informal working time arrangements are the most favourable both for more flexible, more autonomous working hours for those posted, for diplomatic consular events outside classical working hours, for missions and less administration. A further substantive amendment is that at present, the law does not regulate cases where the posted person takes more leave in the year of admission than would be appropriate to him during the external service, for example, in the case of pre-planned recruitment, out-of-order recruitment. For example, if the placement was posted on 1 December, the two days off for medical examination would currently be entitled, despite the fact that you must undergo medical examinations before the placement. Thus, in the year of placement, there is no reason for a new medical examination. The relocated person must also undergo a post-medical examination in the year of submission, so the day off is not justified in the year of submission. In addition, the bill establishes a legal institution for unpaid leave in respect of permanent foreign service. Under the current rules, you will receive 60% of your foreign currency entitlement for the period of your outpatient incapacity to work, which is much higher than you would be entitled to in the country under the sickness insurance rules. Therefore, there is no justification for the payment of the sickness allowance after the difference amount, as this would result in a much higher amount in the case of incapacity for work than in the domestic case. After 180 days of incapacity for work, your posted foreign service will be terminated and you will also be posted in a country where you are entitled to sickness benefit under the law on compulsory health insurance. According to the current legislation, in addition to the remuneration of the posted death until death, the family members residing at the station are entitled, together with the posted one month's additional remuneration. However, this amount may not be paid until well after the death of the posted person. At present, the amount to be paid to the deceased shall be counted and payment shall be made only after the succession procedure has been completed. The legislative objective is to make payments as soon as possible to the relatives at the station, such as the costs of returning home, closing rent, ticketing, transport of movable property. It is also a substantive amendment that, with the amendment, the posted person will not be entitled to a sickness allowance, given that the Foreign Service Act provides him with 60% and 30% of the foreign currency entitlement for the period of incapacity for work. As I have shown above, the bill seeks to address practical experience from everyday operations, and contains technical clarifications both in the Foreign Service Act and in the Foreign Affairs Administration laws, which, however, do not change the concept and the original regulatory objectives of the law, but allow our foreign representations and workers to represent Hungary's interests and values in a flexible manner. I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-04-20-2	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, About a year ago, there was a debate between these walls about the new Foreign Affairs Act. The majority of the legislation came into force in August last year and some of its sections will come into force in August this year. Experience gained in the last eight months makes it possible and, in some cases, it is necessary to fine-tune the law. However, before I go to that point, it is worth looking back at the causes of the creation of the legislation and the goals pursued by the law. The Secretary of State has already mentioned that, in principle, the reorganisation of the external relations structure, the assignment of other tasks to the classic diplomatic tasks, was the fundamental reason for the adoption of a new law last year, but the establishment of this new Foreign Affairs Act started in 2015 with the aim of including legislation at various regulatory levels in a single system from the outset. This concept was an integral part of a consistent reflection on the areas that require legislation and where the points where it is appropriate to give the Minister of Foreign Policy the authority to adapt the detailed rules of daily operation flexibly and by ministerial decree to the frequently changing circumstances. The aim of the bill was to ensure the efficiency, rapid responsiveness of the external representation network, to establish a stable, uniform, transparent external service system and to regulate the expectations of the staff. It has introduced a completely new system of remuneration, which is more appropriate to the principle of social justice, but which also enhances the financial appreciation of diplomatic personnel. I do not want to recall all the elements of this right now, but it should be mentioned that in the new system, besides the principle of previous senility, there was a greater emphasis on the principle of equal pay for those who have the same job, and there are also differences in benefits per station. For work carried out in foreign policy, foreign trade or in difficult living conditions, the law imposed a higher salary. We have lost the legacy of socialism, that the diplomat receives two salaries, on the one hand his domestic salary, and on the other hand a foreign salary. In view of the fact that he does not do actual work in his country during his foreign service, there is a legitimate social expectation that he will not be paid for it. At the same time, it is fairer and fairer to the sender if the one payment is worthy of the task he carries out. The legislation also introduced clear, easy to control and effective flat-rate reimbursement. This solution will, on the one hand, increase the leeway and freedom of the posted body, at the same time increase its responsibilities and, on the other hand, contribute to the predictable planning of the sending body's budget. Well, my fellow Members, the original law has already placed great emphasis on creating social security for the families of the displaced, as Mr Secretary of State has mentioned with a few examples. Well, above all, this is the area in which the amendment we are discussing is moving on. In total, the bill contains technical amendments to seven laws, which address, inter alia, the issue of health care for family members posted to the external service and the rules for the use of diplomatic passports by family members. [[9.20]] There are also amendments to the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service, which is simply called the Foreign Affairs Act, which also aim at a smoother functioning of the foreign affairs administration, bearing in mind the interests of those posted. This includes, for example, the fact that, from now on, the currency instrument can be paid not only in euro, but also in dollars or even in forints. This is more practical in some countries because there is no need to convert the euro into a dollar, and on the other hand, it has regard to the reasonable need of the relocater to pay his domestic expenses from a HUF account without having to change it from a euro to a euro. The bill states that the working arrangements of the executives and those employed in diplomatic work are informal, which is in line with the realities of the daily life of diplomatic work on the one hand, and that there is less administration for missions, as well as more flexible working time arrangements than those laid down in the Public Service Officers Act. The bill also amends the law on international development cooperation. The definitions of donations, aid, offerings, technical assistance and donation letters are both consistent with the use of the Public Finance Act and allow for more flexible and efficient offer procedures. It is also intended to increase efficiency by identifying the status of the so-called "pre-qualified civil society organisation'. Organisations winning this do not have to go through the bureaucratic procedure every time. The strict set of requirements for pre-rating is contained in a ministerial decree, which is authorised by the law. The amendment also makes it clear that a certain proportion of the overall contributions paid to international organisations, as defined by the OECD Development Assistance Committee, constitutes multilateral ODA and thus forms part of the resources allocated to the implementation of international development, cooperation and humanitarian aid policies. It is for transparency that the Minister for Foreign Policy has a publicly accessible database on these activities, as Mr State Secretary has said. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, the Foreign Affairs Act was passed by a large majority by the Parliament, and no factions voted against it. The bill we are discussing now addresses the challenges arising from everyday operation over the past period without changing the concept of last year's law, which meets the original regulatory objectives. That is why I call on my fellow Members and the factions to vote in favour of the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-20-4	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-04-20-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that such a law would in any way be useful and good, but we must also add that the objective of such a comprehensive sectoral law, that it really should be comprehensive and that it really treats the professional life of Hungarian diplomats as a career model, is not fulfilled by this proposal. This has already been debated in the previous bill, and we have indicated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we would very much like to be partners in the preparation of a law that applies this holistic approach, so where, from the point of entry into the diplomatic career, even to participation in an advisory board after the retirement of diplomats, the law would treat the career of diplomats. In Hungarian, conceptually or from the point of view of the goal, the government's objective was correct, but the implementation was successful in the end, as both the current law and the previous law contain 90 percent of the text of a previous government decree, so it shifts a regulation that was already in force to the level of law, complementing it with a few more innovations, but therefore cannot be called comprehensive in any way. In addition to this more general criticism, there are also some specifics, which we said in previous debates, and the law does not provide for them, in Hungarian, the government did not take into account our criticisms at the time in the current legislative amendment. This is about the fact that we are debating the possibility of being ambassadors to a person who does not live in Hungary, who does not have a permanent address in Hungary, or who is a national of the host State, as the case may be. We believe that this is all a national security risk, and we have already indicated this in the previous debate. At the time, this has not been changed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we have not been able to obtain a majority in the debate. As these problems still exist, the MSZP faction is still unable to support this bill. However, we recognise that there is a benefit, and that such an initiative makes sense, so we will most likely remain with it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-20-6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-20-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us amends, in addition to the amendment of the Foreign Representations and Permanent External Service Act, eight other laws, including the law on compulsory health insurance, on family support, on consular protection, on entry and residence of third-country nationals, on public finances, on European territorial association and on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid. Thus, as before, as already mentioned here by the Secretary of State and the lead speaker of Fidesz, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, several laws need to be amended once again in order to introduce technical amendments in part and to make some changes on which I would like to make criticism and some questions. I would like to remind my fellow Members that on 13 June last year the Parliament adopted the law on foreign representations and permanent foreign service, which was also published in the Hungarian Gazette on 23 June 2016. This law was very necessary, since this area was previously regulated by several separate laws and regulations. This was more or less unified last year. If we go back a year, then we can remember that there was an amazing rush and lack of coordination to create the law. The result can be seen, since the legislation must be amended before some of its provisions enter into force at all, as this would happen on 1 August this year, so they will also change. Dear Parliament, It is already in the 2016 Act, but we also see that they reduce the expenses and benefits of diplomats. Those seconded to the external service will still not receive their domestic salary and will no longer be entitled to school support if their children continue their studies in the host country. Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of Fidesz, has given us an explanation, which could be partly accepted in relation to the domestic salary, but I think that this should be arranged in a different way. Overall, it is not acceptable for diplomats to accept this bill last year, and it is not acceptable in Jobbik's view, as it is now before us, because there is no substantive change in this sense and in this direction. We do not understand why the government wants to save money on Hungarian diplomats, while there is so much money for unnecessary things, and to appreciate these important people, it seems that it is not. On the basis of the proposal, those persons will only be entitled to currency and flat-rate reimbursement. There is a shift, some of these amendments are also eligible, but overall, we see that, in contrast to the earlier promises, diplomats will not receive the material appreciation and moral appreciation they spoke about, for example, János Lázár at the European Affairs Committee, as Minister said at the time that Hungarian diplomats were the least paid at EU level and brought this up to the level of the Visegrád Four. [[9.30]] However, what we are seeing now is that the important thing from the government's side is that people who are really close to you can be put in the position, they benefit, but on the other hand, there is no overall settlement in this area. However, this can be said not only for diplomats, but also for Hungarian workers as a whole, this is the attitude of the current government. Furthermore, this amendment of the law - and this must be acknowledged and underlined - also aims to address the problems arising from everyday operation that have arisen over the past period, and to provide technical clarifications, which, however, do not change the concept of the law and its original regulatory objectives. The amendment also changes, as I have already referred to, other related laws concerning certain administrative issues concerning foreign affairs, which aim to improve the smooth functioning of the external relations administration and to establish or refine the legislative framework, with the need to change the implementing regulations relating to such amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the official passport is a diplomatic passport, an external service passport, a service passport and a boat service passport. With the exception of diplomatic passports and boat service passports, the rest could only be used for official travel purposes, including for private purposes, but the proposal also provides for the possibility of using them for private purposes in the External Action Service Passport and in the Service Passport. This is, therefore, also a substantial change compared to the previous one, and I think it is appropriate that we cannot criticise it. However, there are two other areas on which more so. One: under the law in force, the diplomatic post is announced by the Minister for Foreign Policy by tender. I believe and the positive opinion of the Jobbik Group is that this amendment is of concern that the Minister for Foreign Policy is publishing an administrative, technical and diplomatic job in an internal application within the posting body. This suggests a very closed system, Mr Secretary of State, which reduces the possibility for the government to find the most qualified person for that post. So it's also clearly pointing in the direction of their own people being able to get there. Obviously, on the part of a government, it is an acceptable consideration to fill these positions with people who can do their job in line with government policy. However, I think that, with this amendment, the professional aspects will clearly go into the background. I would be pleased if Mr Secretary of State could give us a few sentences as to why this change was included in this bill. The other is an addition to the foreign service passport. Here, a change is made to the partner of the holder and his straight line accomplice. This means that the holder's partner and in some cases, for example, his permanent representation with the EU, will also be entitled to an external service passport. So not only is the diplomat's straight-up accomplice, but also his partner's straight-up accomplice in some cases. I think that broadening the circle to a certain level is entirely acceptable, but I cannot find an explanation to support this change in this bill. So I would also ask the Secretary of State to tell me, in this connection, how the government can justify such a wide circle of expansion. These were the critical comments I wanted to make on the bill before us. I thought it was important to ask these questions, and I hope that I will also receive substantive answers from the Secretary of State to these points, and, if that is the case, the Jobbik Group will consider its position, because basically, as I referred to it, there are eligible parts in this amendment, but if these doubts cannot be resolved, then it is a stand-alone position that we will be able to take in the final vote. I therefore look forward to Mr Secretary of State's answers to these questions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Gregory Wolf applauds.]]
u2017-04-20-8	Thank you. That is the end of the keynote speeches. I do not see any further applications for opposition, so I will give the floor to the Secretary of State to reply as rapporteur, and I will also conclude the general debate.
u2017-04-20-9	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that constructive and forward-looking questions and criticisms have been formulated from all the factions, and I trust that we will be able to get closer to each other in the course of the negotiations, and that the final result at second reading will be a truly forward-looking law that can be accepted by all. Of course, it is necessary to establish this law in a very complex environment, which is why it was presented in the form of such a salad law, because whatever we modify in the permanent foreign service law, it can affect the text of a lot of other laws. We will certainly examine Mr Mesterházy's proposals, and, of course, we look forward to the proposals that could seriously support the creation of a career model in the law and the way in which he tries to reduce security risks. On behalf of Mr Tibor Bana, I would also like to thank you for your constructiveness and cooperation. I would not be hasty because we really wanted to make a thorough amendment quickly and effectively a year ago, but precisely to see how this law works in practice, we now have nearly one year of experience, and now we have the opportunity to fine-tune this law in a thoughtful, thorough and well-thought-out manner. So it is precisely the thorough and thoughtful thinking that leads us to propose this new amendment of the law. For the record, your allowance for diplomats doesn't decrease. The degree of freedom is increasing for diplomats. All the benefits that they had previously received were placed in the basic package, so that the diplomat, the foreign worker, has much more flexibility to decide freely, according to his own discretion, his own needs, and the needs of his family, how to use the benefits. Of course, the professional aspects will continue to apply by the Minister for Foreign Affairs deciding on personal changes in the case of administrative workers, as the Minister, of course, takes these decisions in the light of the proposals of the profession and the professional aspects. We were guided by simple practical considerations regarding the issue of the diplomatic passports of a partner, spouse, and an ascendant, because for a child who is separated from his home for many years, the fact that it is the parents of his father or mother, for example, does not make a difference to them, Grandpa is Grandpa, Grandma is Grandma. We are certainly trying to help families stay together, and we have been led by the purpose of his easy travels and of facilitating their stay outside, but of course we can also discuss this further if they have good ideas and suggestions on how we can serve this purpose. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-20-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws to improve Hungary's competitiveness until closure. The government referral is T/15053. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-11	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, A new area for the government's bureaucracy reduction policy started two years ago could continue in the event of the adoption of the bill that is being negotiated or being negotiated. In addition to administrative administration, the daily lives of citizens and businesses can also be simplified in the area of public utility connection. The starting point for drawing up the bill is to improve the overall competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, along with longer-term and systemic interventions, the need to develop measures that will lead to tangible improvements in certain areas that are critical for competitiveness in the short term. [[9.40]] The bill was drawn up taking into account the proposals of the National Competitiveness Council on 23 March 2017, which was designed in accordance with the plans for measures to improve the competitiveness of the business environment. The Council agreed that one of the important areas of rapid intervention is the business regulatory environment, the competitiveness of which needs to be improved in areas that can be identified on the basis of international surveys. For example, the World Bank's annual Doing Business survey, which evaluates and prioritises 190 countries for the competitiveness of the corporate operating environment at the same time. Based on the survey, the connection to the electricity grid in Hungary is extremely time-consuming. Our country is ranked 121 in this respect. The time needed for the entire process of connecting to the electricity grid is 257 days, and the region is by far the longest. Compared to our two regional competitors, such as Poland and Slovakia, the Hungarian accession time is more than double and the Czech Republic and OECD average, which represents more than three times the total of 76 days. The high time needed to connect to the electricity grid also delays the development of investments, so it is also important from the point of view of how a new investment by an undertaking can benefit the company on the one hand and how it can contribute through taxes to the creation of further development resources in the country. The problem is due to the time needed to design the connection to the electricity grid and to the time needed for the administrative authorisation procedures running at the same time. On the basis of the above starting point, the Government will develop its proposal not only for electricity but also for the gas and water utilities sectors, in line with the spirit of the reduction in tariffs, for a rational reduction of the legal time limits applicable in the context of domestic utility connection procedures and, in this context, for the purpose of protecting consumers, for the purpose of standardising the public utility connection charges currently applied and for limiting the discretion and powers of distribution companies to exercise their powers of discretion. Dear House, The bill before you proposes to amend seven laws: laws on gas supply, electricity, water utility services, land development and spatial planning, the design and protection of the built environment, property registers and surveying and mapping activities. In connection with the question of public utility connection, the proposal contains the following main problems: (1) the problem of high tariffs; (2) the rules on the replacement of gas meters; (3) the restriction of the excessive discretion of distribution companies; and (4) the withdrawal of the powers of distribution companies. With regard to accession fees, the bill introduces new legal exemption rules for all three sectors concerned. The exemption has been adjusted in each sector to measure the ability to serve a family house or a smaller entity. The bill raises the application of the principle of minimum costs to a statutory level and states that in the case of the provision of special fee services, the time actually devoted to work must be taken into account when determining the level of the special fee applicable by the system operator. In the current regulatory environment, distributors acting under public authority have excessive discretion when considering plans to be attached to public utility applications. In addition to this, the exercise of public authority law is unduly broad and thus slowing down and making the connection process difficult. Therefore, as a legal guarantee for all three sectors, the distributor may request the technical safety authority to issue a certificate of competence if the distributor, by means of its declaration, considers the export plan for the establishment of the line necessary for the service to be inadequate. At present, in the electricity and water utilities sector, it is not ensured that construction works can be carried out by the consumer with the contractor of his choice. In contrast, in the natural gas sector, the construction work is carried out by the contractor selected by the consumer from among the notified and licensed gas installers' registers. Due to the harmonisation of the regulations for the three sectors, the solution in the gas sector is also transposed into the electricity and water utilities sectors by the bill. At the end of the implementation of the utility connection, the bill shall ensure that the distributor is obliged to take over and put into service the connection within a reasonable period of time even if the construction was carried out by the consumer with his own contractor and the execution was carried out in accordance with the plan. Honourable Members, The proposal also includes a 5-day reduction in the time limit for administration, in conjunction with the above efforts to ensure a smoother connection to public utilities. With the adoption of the proposal, if the building authority examines the specific issue set out in the Government Decree in the authorisation procedure and is not involved in the procedure, the administrative deadline for building for industrial purposes or for agricultural activities will be 30 days instead of 35 days. In addition to simplifying public utility connections and reducing costs, other land and settlement issues need to be addressed to improve competitiveness. In the industrial and agricultural sector, land-use and municipal issues arise when an undertaking wishes to carry out an investment that requires the preparation or modification of a spatial planning plan or a local construction code before the start of the construction authorisation. The preparation or modification of the spatial planning plan by the county municipalities, depending on the complexity of the task, is 10-15, while the settlement planning instrument of the municipal authorities represents an amount of approximately HUF 6-10 million. A significant part of these, up to HUF 2-3 million, is the fee for the purchase of basic maps, utility data and other data. The aim is to eliminate these costs by providing free map data to operators financed from the central budget. With the amendment, the municipal budget burden will be reduced, thus enabling job creation investments that have been unsuccessful in the past due to the cost and time needed to change the spatial and settlement planning plans. The free transfer of map data to municipalities is not permitted under certain real estate registration and cartography legislation and the exceptions should therefore be stated in the laws concerned. With regard to these data, we want to ensure free access for the Lechner Knowledge Centre, which effectively assists the planning tasks of municipalities through the operation of the national construction register and the national spatial planning and spatial planning information system. Honourable Members, From the government's point of view, this amendment is a sensible proposal that brings about a tangible improvement in the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, bearing in mind the image of the consumer-friendly and service state. In view of this, we ask for the support of the honourable Parliament. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-20-12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Sándor Bodo, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Indeed, as the Secretary of State said. In view of international examples, the time and complexity of such developments in Hungary is quite criminal. The best witnesses of this are the Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian businesses that suffer this. When these companies think of some kind of cooperation with their cross-border business partners, foreign partners do not understand this attitude. It's often said that maybe you guys are on the other side of the horse. Obviously, this has developed a customary system, which needs to be considered in a very good way, and the opportunities that this bill will provide to all of us will have to be improved. To speed up the connection to the public utility network is a completely understandable and legitimate demand, and if you think about it, perhaps three or four of the most important features are certainly formulated in this context, which is worth emphasising. One is acceleration, which is perfectly understandable, as I mentioned. It is also very important, of course, that these work be carried out by professionals with appropriate qualifications and expertise. And the most appropriate guarantee of that is that if they are listed in such a order, they are authorized by a driving licence which allows anyone to choose according to their preference, cost, geographical proximity. [[9.50]] It was a rather strange procedure that the customer could not choose who to have the activity carried out. There are few examples of this in the business world, since he is paying for it. When these examples come up in connection with electricity and the water utility sector, I have to say that it is quite right to catch up with it, it is connected to the natural gas sector in the same line of expectations, as we know very well that in the industrial, agricultural and commercial installations, perhaps these three sectors are the ones that appear and cannot be avoided in each case, as electricity, water, sewage and obviously natural gas are also needed in each place depending on the heating mode. When we think that perhaps one or the other is safer or more important about this, of course, we can hardly set the order in order, since today's modern and I think in a complex economic context, all of these are conditions that we will have to assess on an equal footing. It is very often said that when entrepreneurs start to develop and take into account many conditions, it is at the beginning of the priorities of what tortures, what bureaucratic steps they need to go through. It is also that there is an assurance on the part of the financing side of such an undertaking or such an improvement, obviously very, very important, and I think that perhaps one of the most important ones, but we have heard countless examples that, in addition to the existing financial collateral, and despite the procedural order and the lack of prospects, it was the extremely long procedural time that deterred an investor from realising it, or from realising in Hungary the development ideas that would be very important for all of us. This is extremely important in this respect, and I think that reducing deadlines will be an inspiring factor for economic organisations that will help them to enter into such a development vision more hopefully in the future. The fact that costs are also falling is also an important requirement, understandably. It has been said many times on the part of the entrepreneurs, and I myself have heard several such conversations, that they really do not know why these costs should be paid. There was not much reasonable explanation for this, since the profit of the service provider is clearly reflected in the later service fee, and entrepreneurs feel that they will have to pay for it and they will have to be in line for which they will regularly provide compensation to the service provider later on, due to their economic activity. It is therefore very important that the cost reduction also appears in this area. It is a very strong idea in terms of the availability of databases, maps and statements to anyone free of charge. There are also a number of examples in economic life that access to or difficulty in doing so also discourages entrepreneurs or, sometimes, on the basis of half-information, can lead a development idea astray. When a development concept is not yet established, there are obviously many databases to be collected at the time that the risk of implementation, its duration, length, and many other aspects could still be classified, the entrepreneur can take into account. The cost of these purchased documents was quite significant, and it was obviously sometimes a window-knocked money. In good cases, they could be inserted into the line the company said to swallow in order to move forward faster, more effectively and more precisely for future developments, but in cases where this programme might not have been implemented for some reason, it could be particularly annoying to pay a not too low procedural fee or a series of fees. So all the ideas in the regulation are clearly designed to make businesses' lives easier, to develop ideas more easily, more quickly, but I believe that they can continue to be implemented safely. With regard to cooperation between partners in this respect, I think that this proposal will also be an excellent opportunity, and I believe that local authorities, as has been said in the context of spatial planning plans, will be able to work more effectively and more precisely in this simplified timetable for bureaucracy reduction. I am an optimistic man, and I believe that so far, at times, it seemed to me, because of the stubbornness and difficulty of the administrators, and perhaps I could even use other words, that these developments were not progressing at the pace that those involved wanted, but I must add that there must have been a reason for this, and there was a very good reason for it: very over-regulated, very bureaucratic procedure. If we can change that, and I ask for your support, your help, then I believe that in this story there will only be winners, and that Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, are the main winners of this idea. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-20-14	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-20-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the objective to be fundamentally supported can always be that the government would like to reduce bureaucracy in each sector or in the various licensing procedures, but it is always necessary to look at the other side of this, as well as the background of the fact that, in addition to the fact that it is welcome that neither a family house nor a small enterprise has to pay a connection fee for different public utility networks, which is 32 millimeters for water utilities or 4 cubic meters per hour for connection to gas utilities, as laid down here in the bill, but the lack of these costs clearly also appears on the other side, on the service providers and public utility providers. There is no law about whether the government compensates for the revenue thus lost from the other side, or whether it continues to put utility service providers in a difficult position, do not give up, it is impossible, because, starting from the utility tax, a number of other measures have been taken by the government in recent years, which has put utility service providers in a very difficult position, and complaints from this sector have continued. Of course, in addition to the fact that the public does not have to pay, and this is positive, it will make it easier to reduce investment and construction costs, perhaps it will also encourage the construction industry a little bit, if the cost is so much lower, and perhaps the licensing procedures will also be simplified, this is a positive thing. However, as, let's say, the lack of access charges implies a lack of revenue on the other side, so it appears as a loss of revenue at the utility service provider, so the shortening of the administrative deadlines would also imply a need to increase the number of employees on the utility service provider's side, so that the utility service providers may need additional labour in order to ensure these shorter deadlines, which are set out in the bill. Nor is it clear that this proposal is whether they will receive additional resources from the state to keep them, because it sounds very nice, and this idea, which is enshrined in this law, is very good, but if the other side is not guaranteed and the situation of utility operators is only getting worse in the long term, then we may cause damage in this sector or the government is causing damage to such a proposal. [[10.00]] There are 41 operators in the field of water utilities alone today, currently in Hungary, which has 35 or 36 municipal owners out of 41 operators and the rest are state-owned. So it is no longer a matter of chasing gaz multinationals out of the sector, and therefore it is necessary to try to make them impossible by all means, but in most cases it is municipal and small-scale state-owned companies, for whom these costs, or where the costs appear as a deficit on the other side, must obviously be borne by someone. This will appear somewhere at a local government firm sooner or later, even in a state-owned company, if it does cause a loss of revenue. This, according to the water utility service providers, can cause a loss of revenues of between HUF 500 million and 600 million per company per year, which is not such a small amount for an average water utility provider, either because of the lack of connection fees or because of the extra labour demand due to the shortening of administrative deadlines or other facilities listed in the law. So we would certainly like to ask the Government or the Secretary of State personally to come to this side of the issue in his reply; there are two sides to each coin, don't you think? We welcome and support the reduction in the burden of the population both financially and administratively, whether small businesses or the private sector, but this does not lead to the impossibility of public utility operators or to the end of their operations, simply because these measures are not covered by the State and will have to be managed by them in the case of public utility operators operating at the level of profitability or even at a loss. Of course, not only water utility providers but also other sectors have similar questions about these measures. And speaking of administrative cuts, there is still a question of how much the reduction of administrative burdens is served by the amendment to the law on the formation and protection of the built environment that allows the determination of the value of municipal biological activity regulated by law compared to the previous one to be regulated at regulatory level. It has been stipulated in this Act that, at the same time as the designation of newly installed areas, the value of biological activity in the administrative area of the municipality should not be reduced compared to the activity value before the conversion. Obviously, the proportion of active green surfaces should not change at a harmful rate and should therefore not decrease. And now this is modified in such a way that, in relation to the activity value before the conversion, it cannot be reduced as defined in the legislation issued for the implementation of this Act. So it continues to say that it cannot be reduced, but it is already there that, according to the rules of the implementing regulations, there is a loophole within it: it lowers this task, and this may even be a disadvantage in this respect or a step backwards for the urban green spaces. Mainly in Budapest, but also in other cities, it is constantly a problem that the quality of green surfaces is reduced during the installation process. If it does not fall in square meters, because they replace this square meter ratio with different green roofs and others in the course of the investments, but obviously in terms of activity, a park cannot be replaced by a green roof, and there have been quite a few problems here in Budapest with the installation of the City Park and many other investments. So I would like this provision or this amendment or the justification for it to be explained by the Secretary of State. And of course, access to the different databases is considered positive to simplify access for those who are entitled to do so. On the whole, the situation with this bill is once again that it clearly creates an extremely favourable situation for a government politically, as everyone is obviously happy not to have to pay a utility connection fee or shorten the administrative deadlines, and this is also a positive thing. However, since there are dozens of state and municipal owned companies on the other side, it is obvious that both the State and the taxpayer will ultimately be responsible if these companies become indestructible or run at risk. If we look only at the utility tax, which has already been a significant burden on them in previous years, this means that this burden is imposed on utility operators on the basis of the length of the utilities, which often puts them in a very difficult situation, so it is clear that if the government's declared objective is not to make these utility operators impossible, it must in some way compensate for these losses of costs and revenues on the other side. After all, the public also suffers if a public utility company is unable to provide its services properly, because it is in such an impossible position financially or in other respects that it cannot carry out its task any longer. I know that there have been a number of utility companies in Hungary that were not justified, for example, to be such a large number of service providers for water utilities, but now this magnitude, which is now, this further narrowing may not be such a positive outcome. There have also been rumors that the 5 large public and 35 or 36 municipal-owned water utility companies might be merged in some form, and that some large multi or even multi utility providers would be created. The question is, what is the purpose of this in the long term? It is therefore hoped that it will not prepare for a subsequent privatisation of the sector. Hopefully, it is in the interests of consumers. We have doubts about the government's operation in previous years in this regard, so I would not finalize our position on this bill at the moment. We will, among other things, make it dependent on Mr State Secretary's answers and the adoption of any subsequent amendments to our proposals on how we will vote on this bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the opposition side.]]
u2017-04-20-16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-04-20-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last seven years we have whipped the government quite a lot because of the fact that its economic policy is not particularly investment-friendly, as a result of which investments in Hungary have dropped normally, even below the critical level of 20%, which we know is a decline, because 20 percent can be talked about the fact that falling and renewable production assets and assets are about the right proportion. This was not only a subjective feeling based on the professional opinion of Hungarian investors, bilateral chambers - the Hungarian-German Chamber, the Hungarian-American Chamber, the Hungarian-Chinese Chamber - but also on certain objective indicators. Our problem is that this bill is very well-intentioned today, and it is important to have such laws in place, but this bill cannot remedy the structural problems of domestic competitiveness, and cutting red tape and cutting red tape alone can bring little results in the area of overhead and public utility connections. It is true that this is extremely necessary, because when an economic interest is clearly formulated in order to prevent investors from being deterred from investing, it is possible to obtain as comfortable as possible the information, the authorisation, the necessary documents necessary to start their investment, that is a fundamental national national interest. It is all the more important to have a smooth administration and fair administration in this area, because competition with neighbouring countries, Romania, Transylvania, where there is a large Hungarian investor layer, and they are very capable of seducing foreign investors, there is a more specific way of effectively expressing the administration, which is now being dealt with by a special office and does not necessarily bring positive results. In any event, the acquisition of licences in Romania is clearly ensured. [[10.10]] Unfortunately, there are two kinds of practices in Hungary. On the one hand, there are a small number of dedicated, competent experts - here I say to the official in a good sense that he is a bureaucrat in the Max Weber sense - and there are many, many beginners who either fail to assess the importance of the weight of their actions or are unable to produce an adequate result in their lack of knowledge. Unfortunately, news of this is also coming to our attention, whether it is a lack of official licenses or a misinformation in financing information, which causes a loss of 100 million to Hungarian medium-sized enterprises, because they cannot carry out an acquisition at the pace undertaken, because they simply do not receive the necessary permissions or find anything else that could be expected to happen with reason. So this could really be a good proposal to improve the country's competitiveness rankings by a few places, where they score on similar aspects, such as the World Bank's "doing business" list. However, it will obviously not be enough for Hungary to rise in a more complex ranking, e.g. by the World Economic Forum. This is the list, you know, my fellow government representatives, where Hungary made six seats worse in 2016 and, compared to the 2015 result, Hungary was able to finish 25th place in this rather complex list of competitiveness in the 28 EU Member States - then clearly so many. Which, I have to say, is not fictitious, because this list is not only viewed here in the Hungarian Parliament - or in the Hungarian government they do not look at it because they do not attach importance to it - but it is watched by investors. This expresses the investment and investment environment that attracts investors, those who want to develop in each country. Turning to the specific content of the proposal, the amendments tabled aim at simplifying sometimes excessively bureaucratic administration in order to speed up public utility connections, the deadlines for public authorities should be shorter, i.e. restricting the process by law to a faster cycle time, and also a reduction in costs, which also results in numerical competitiveness of how much an authorisation process costs, say in Slovakia; this is usually named in the investment feasibility study for what it costs. I think the constitutional cost is difficult to calculate; we hope that there is no mention of it here in Hungary, because there is no constitution in Hungary, only the Fundamental Law, so therefore there is no constitutional cost, where there is only Fundamental Law. But it's just a word magic that I've done, probably has nothing to do with practice. The bill therefore seeks to amend the Gas Supply Act, the Electricity Act, the Water utility Act 2011, the 1996 Land Development and Land Planning Act, the 1997 Law on the Development and Protection of the Built Environment, the Real Estate Registration Act of 1997 CXLI. Law and the Law of 2012 on surveying and mapping activities. Of course, they do not want to fundamentally amend these laws, so the essential element of these regulations remains, and that is where the problem comes from. The ability to select electricians and plumbers who can take part in the construction works from the central register may mean that it is not only the nation's gas mechanic - I do not want to name it, because it would probably be possible to sue even Parliament for personal rights if I named the nation's natural gas mechanic - but I think that other people can be included in this central qualified registration system, and this can help. What's more serious is the delay. So it is noble that these lead times should be reduced, that one should receive the answer from the office more quickly, but there is a question as to how reliable such permission or opinion will be in addition to the given IT system, in addition to the given system of knowledge - I can't say a better word - in addition to the fact that they maintain order in one office. If the government consistently takes the potential of IT technology, its development, the development of registration systems, which is the European Union - you know, what they want to stop now, Brussels, so that it doesn't bring its money here; Brussels, stop, don't bring any culture, no performance, nothing. Therefore, if this were not the case, but the resources for the development of information technology were accepted and used properly, it is entirely possible and obvious that these records, after digitisation, would be able to secure the client's request even within a fraction of the time limits now narrowed down, even after proper search systems have been digitised. Basically, this is about reliability, accuracy and later usability. Because the customer is very useful if the natural gas distributor is to be issued in just 5 days instead of 15 days to review the design of the connection line and the user equipment before it is implemented, if, for example, it does not have the necessary digitally available information in the area of clearing the connection points. So if you're imagining this by working with your hands much faster, it's a doomed stunt. This will increase not competitiveness, but chaos and unreliable data. According to the proposal, the basic rules and deadlines for the procedure of the redress authority are also laid down against the decision of public utility operators on the need to connect to the network. This is important because, in particular, foreign investors need to be taught what kind of permits and what they need in Hungary. I suppose all serious investors also employ home experts, but all investors are calm if they see this in writing. So if the law requires one of these, it is a proper effort to make the process predictable. The fact that the time between the publication and the entry into force of the bill is rather short, so in this respect it can only be hoped that the Hungarian government administration will be able to prepare - and is still prepared because it will not be able to prepare for too much in eight days - so that it is still prepared for what I have said, that it will be able to respect the deadlines set by law, even using the possibilities of digital technology, so that the safety requirements for public utility services will not be violated, they will be reliable, and any incorrect administrative decisions resulting from compliance with short procedural deadlines will not jeopardise the safety of persons and property. [[10.20]] There are two kinds of risks here. One is the risk of investors, which is roughly reflected in the perception of the country. Right now, unfortunately, it's bad. Thus, much fewer foreign investors come to Hungary than could be allowed on the basis of objective indicators, so subjective judgement is wrong for Hungary. It's one of the dangers. The other threat is much more concrete and much more tangible: in the area of life and wealth security for individuals and in the area of the security of companies, there is also a risk as a result of possible mismanagement decisions. Therefore, the bill is not sufficiently prepared from a codification point of view, for example, the legislative proposals to be amended are rather peculiar, in a sort of incoherent order instead of following each other in chronological order in accordance with legislative requirements, that it would be easy and quickly understandable for the pious observer, therefore not specifically initiated. So we have before us a bill that is very much needed, and Hungary's competitiveness must also be explicitly improved on the side of increasing the level of bureaucracy, but this paper is not. [[He's showing me a sheet of paper.]] I don't want to violate the rules of the illustration, so it's not an observation, I just lifted a page of the proposal, not risking, I suppose, any house punishment. So it's not what we wanted, so we can't support it yet, but we welcome the direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring claps.]]
u2017-04-20-18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is now room for further contributions from its representatives. Congresswoman Anita Herringes has spoken. I give you the floor.
u2017-04-20-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to ask you friendly but concerned questions. I am also a little concerned about what my fellow Member, Mr Pista Józsa, said that he has punished several of us this week for calling János Áder by his first name; I do not know, I am very proud of the first name my parents gave me, so I hope that Mr. Secretary of State will not be offended if I call him Nándor, and I hope that there will be no punishment for that. But my worrying and friendly questions would be that it has been said so far in the water utility service that although sewerage could be given out under very strict rules to other mechanics, not to the plumbers of the water utility company, but to other mechanics, but the drinking water network could not be published so far. So far, the authority has allowed someone else to access the drinking water network, but now with this bill, we can see that anyone who is controlled by the authority can touch it. It's a public health issue. It's not like the gas supply, the gas grid, it's not like the power grid, because drinking water is a very, very dangerous, basic food that if not handled well, it can cause very, very big problems. I think that many have seen over the past period that badly successful drinking water reconstruction programmes, such as Baja, where brown drinking water has been given to the population, can cause serious problems. That's why I think it's dangerous to give this installation job to anyone, and I'm really saying it to anyone, because it feels like the sector itself, and a lot of people are worried that in the end it's going to work on a market basis, and it's going to be given to anyone, some buddy company, who's going to benefit from it. It is true that this will be more expensive for everyone, since the authorities' fees will have to be paid in the same way, not by the water utility company that has provided these things so far in principle, so it looks like a market reservation. But we are talking about health, we are talking about public health, we are talking about the population. I think that this needs to be well thought out and that everything should not be viewed on a market basis. That is why I ask Mr Nándor, State Secretary, to answer, to reassure us, to reassure the sector and the population that not everyone will be able to touch the drinking water network. Thank you. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-04-20-20	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás László.
u2017-04-20-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This law basically acts in three directions. The first direction, I think, is, of course, to strengthen competitiveness requirements or to meet the criteria. But I think it is more important that public works become a real public service provider, so this is the important way to make public works a public service provider. They are currently most likely to act as market players and authorities. I think that the role of the public authority must be changed a little from the utilities that I respect, including water utilities, to the role of public service. And the third thing is to strengthen the responsibilities. In these types of processes - licensing, intervention, connection to utilities and others - the state and not the municipality are the real ones, but the utility itself, the builder, the designer who takes responsibility for this. So I think that this direction, which this particular bill represents, is an absolute right direction, and I think that all the concerns or concerns that my fellow Members have explained are somewhat correct, but since this direction is absolutely correct, coherent and coherent, I think that we should go in this direction. I propose that we adopt this bill, of course. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-20-22	Thank you very much. I don't see any other candidates. The general debate is therefore closed. I would like to ask Nándor Csepreghy, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said.
u2017-04-20-23	Mr President, Thank you very much for the word, and for the contributions I consider constructive. Allow me to respond specifically to some of the points in the first phase of the debate and start from behind, with the functions of the service provider in the name of the public utility provider, which Mr László referred to. If utility service providers were to provide customers who have to work for the benefit of the public or the corporate world, then today the corporate world would not name the possibility of building access to utility services as a competitive obstacle to Hungarian investment, which the government would like to change with this package of measures. I would like to go through some of the issues facing opposition. I will start with Mr Kepli's proposals and questions: the result of a change in costs. It is true that we are talking about the fact that the bill submitted by the government is very clear on what services or after what time period they can bill, and this reduces the time interval that was the legal basis for invoicing compared to previous practice. So, in particular, we are talking about the fact that, under the current rules, public utility billing does not take place on the basis of the services actually carried out for the customer, but in addition to the actual work, the utility provider has the opportunity to do so when not working for the customer, but to do so. We don't think that's fair. So we need to make a very clear rule that you can only be billed as a client for the work that has been done for you, and what is beyond that, do not charge you as a client. So we think that this type of loss of income does not take funds from the company's operations, but has reduced an additional income by limiting to the customer what can be billed, which has so far been unauthorized, or has gone to utility service providers without actual work. With regard to the reduction of the deadline, it is worth looking at the international outlook here because in many cases we are talking about similarly organised companies either in the region or in the OECD Member States, and if there is a precedent that these companies can work much less within a much shorter deadline, then we should ask why this is not the case in Hungary. [[10.30]] Undoubtedly, this proposal, if it passes the Hungarian Parliament and has the support of the Hungarian Parliament, will create a situation where Hungarian utility service providers have to organise their daily operation in a completely different practice. But just because there has been a practice so far - which, apparently, has also been a competitive barrier, and for the end-users to whom it was provided it was not appropriate - let us not touch this because this requires new ways of organising work, we believe that this is not a viable idea. What you have asked me about green areas, Mr President, is that in the case of industrial use, only the use of spare green surfaces is possible. Therefore, no player can go below the limit level set by the different regulators in terms of the minimum green area, but only use of the green areas included as a reserve. Mr Józsa, thank you very much for agreeing with the situation and allow me to make a few comments on the problems you have raised. This bill does not apply to the settlement of the general situation of competitiveness, so this does indeed concern a partial rule; as part of the amendment of the construction laws has been affected in the last half-year, as part of the regulation of the issue of public procurement or part of the regulation of the reduction of the various administrative procedural fees. So we think that there is a great deal of legislation that needs to be put in place to ensure that the country's competitiveness is significantly and truly improved. After all, problems are diverse and cannot be dealt with by one rule of law. I think that neither overestimation nor underestimation should be made of the competitiveness reports that appear, but if we attach so much importance to this and I understand the critical comment from the opposition's point of view, let us take into account, let us say, the statements of credit rating agencies concerning the country's rating, and let us take into account the data which, therefore, affect the economic performance of a country, such as the rate of employment, such as the evolution of public debt, such as the issue of budgetary balance, all factors that have an impact on the country's competitiveness. From the e-Utility Act, which you personally participated in, Mr President, it is clear that the argument you are making about a chaos here cannot be interpreted. After all, with the creation of e-Utility maps, a single national database is created to which all service providers and all investors can access free of charge. As a result, the problems of these paper-based administrations will be avoided in our view. I would also like to respond seriously to Mrs Heringes, because it is true that she explained that, in the event that not only repairers of utilities had access to different networks, the dangers involved, and the guarantee is precisely that if only these operators had received different installation rights in this area; if it were true, what you are saying, then the problems that you have listed could not have occurred. After all, according to the current rules, only these operators have access to it, and yet we are faced with such problems. The Government has also set itself the intention in this bill to really open up the possibility that, if the service providers that the customer essentially wants to use have the qualification on the basis of which they can actually carry out quality-compliant work, they are free to do this work in such a way that compliance with all relevant rules can be verified by the competent authorities. The mistakes of the past period show that it is not guaranteed by a utility service provider or by other external mechanics, but by those who have access to any network, any utility network, the appropriate competence, qualification and background. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2017-04-20-24	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. The 2016 CLV on official statistics will now follow. General debate on the draft law amending the implementation of law until closure. The government referral is T/15070. ) can be found on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2017-04-20-25	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Surely all Members of Parliament agree that official statistics are an important tool for democracy. On the one hand, as it allows access to data from independent sources for all users, it is possible to refer to verified information or data using a reliable, factual and public and scientifically based methodology when making different policy, policy, economic, business or, where appropriate, personal decisions. On the basis of this, official statistics have the task of informing public, municipal, local, national government, economic and civil society organisations, financial markets, as well as citizens interested in public opinion and the country's affairs about the current state of the country and the evolution of economic and social processes, and the trends in the state of the environment. In order to achieve the above objectives, the Parliament adopted the new statistical law in autumn 2016. [[Dr. István Józsa laughs.]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the laws governing the management of administrative data sources are in line with the statistical law in order to ensure the use of available administrative data and data sources for statistical purposes. This bill amends laws which lay down rules for the management of administrative data sources and which exclude or restrict the possibility of their use for statistical purposes. This exclusion may be an actual provision stating that access to the relevant register for statistical purposes is not possible or is inappropriate for individual identification. But there are also laws that include a taxative list of persons and entities who have access to the records, and this list does not include statistics. For all of these laws, it was necessary to incorporate a separate provision on the access to data by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office for statistical purposes in order to ensure consistency with the legislation of the European Union and Hungary. The right of access is not unlimited, in accordance with what is stated above, and it has its place and entitlement only after prior verification of the statistical objective. The level of access is also adapted to the statistical objective, and a request for individual identification may be made to the extent necessary, i.e. when it is not necessary for the statistical purpose, direct identifiers are not transferred. Even if the individual identification is justified, it is necessary to consider the identity of the flock according to the statistical objective. This, if possible, could also be an anonymous technical way of connecting. Given that the needs of users of statistical data are constantly changing, neither the specific uses nor the scope of the individual data to be transmitted can be determined in advance, so that the amending provisions do not list them but refer them back to the provision of the statistical law on the basis of which these issues should be settled in a cooperation agreement concluded between the body managing the data and the Central Statistical Office. These agreements will be public under statistical law, accessible to anyone on the website of the Central Statistical Office. Dear Parliament, To sum up: the amendments contained in this bill are linked to the entry into force of the statistical law on 1 January and the implementation of EU legislation on European statistics, are essential to ensure consistency and contribute to the continuous improvement of data quality while reducing the burden on reporting agents. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-20-26	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-20-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Official statistics should be used to inform public, government, local, national government, economic and civil society organisations, financial markets and citizens interested in the country's situation, economic and social developments and the state of the environment. In order to carry out the tasks mentioned above, the Parliament adopted the bill on official statistics in December last year. As a result, it has become necessary to discuss this bill, which aims to bring legislative consistency to the use of available administrative data sources for statistical purposes. [[10.40]] This means that, under the Act on Official Statistics, statistics are produced on the basis of data collections, which may be direct statistical data collections or statistical data collections. In the case of direct data collection, the body implementing the data collection shall directly contact and question individuals, households and businesses. These data collections affect a number of data providers, sometimes even the population as a whole, such as the census. Reporting is a burden on reporting agents, despite the use of advanced techniques and electronic data collection. However, a significant part of the data subject of the statistical examination is already available in a register managed under other legislation with another controller of the public administration. The use of these so-called secondary data sources for statistical purposes therefore serves both to make use of it and to reduce the burden on reporting agents. In view of the above, the Act on Official Statistics states that a primary data source can only be used if there is no available secondary data source suitable for statistical purposes, thereby stressing that reporting individuals and businesses can only be charged with statistical questionnaires if there is no data available in another database that can be used to meet the statistical objective. For this purpose, the law obliges administrative data source management bodies to provide the data they process in the data source for official statistical purposes, except, of course, classified data, in a manner suitable for individual identification. However, I must say that a number of laws contain provisions in force that exclude or restrict access to administrative data sources for official statistical purposes. In order to ensure that these laws are in line with the legislation adopted in winter and that the permission to receive data for official statistical purposes is complete, it is necessary to remove the legal restrictions and therefore to make appropriate legislative amendments. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the bill before us amends legislation which lays down rules for the management of administrative data sources and which excludes or restricts their use for statistical purposes. On this basis, the proposal to be adopted can be divided into two parts. The exclusion may be an actual provision stating that the relevant register may not be accessed for statistical purposes or that it may only be accessed in an inappropriate manner for individual identification. In contrast, we can also talk about regulations that include a taxative list of persons and entities who have access to the records and do not include statistics in this list. In the context of these laws, in order to ensure consistency with EU and Hungarian legislation, it was necessary to incorporate a separate provision on access to data for statistical purposes by the HCSO, which is made by this bill. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, official statistics are an important tool for democracy, allowing data users to base their decisions on data generated from independent sources using public and scientifically based methodologies. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support this proposal. The Fidesz Group supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-20-28	Thank you. I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-04-20-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that data is a very sensitive part of every human's life and of human rights guarantees in general. Compared to this, in the context of a bill, they come up with such a subtext that we should also ask for the personal number; it is true that this is the personal number that serves the exclusion identification of the electoral recommendation ticket, but we will be combing it into such a small law. So KSH's activity is proof that you are building a total dictatorship, or at least that is what you intend to build in the country. For when, in the election year, the KSH does not publish the country's poverty data in view of a lack of capacity, or when they have not yet been able to develop the government strategy, the ten-year census conducted at the beginning of January 2011 does not know for 17 months, or when it asks for any data or money, or when it refuses to provide data, if the data is really sensitive from a political point of view, we must say that this is the stealth dictatorship. So you want to hide from the public sensitive information about life, which violates basically constitutional law, violates the constitutional right of Hungarians to free information and objective information. Thus, the functioning of the KSH as it stands can be proven to violate constitutional fundamental rights in addition to such practices, through examples. Mr State Secretary, I would like to refer here to a logical fundamental principle; to prove that something does not comply with the law, there may be only one example to prove that it complies with the law, and that it can only be justified by the analysis of all cases that it complies with the law. The fact that it doesn't fit is sufficient to prove it with one example. So I'm very careful to keep you from following this path, because you're being written out of democratic countries, you're going on the road that we see in Turkey, where there's a dictator, or a person who calls himself president, who, under certain circumstances, produces election results on certain issues that cement his power, and then you'll have to see what kind of relationship he can have with the world. This bill amends 64 laws. It's amazing! In particular, the 2016 CXL on official statistics adopted on 6 December 2016, which is not so old, is not worth half a year. Law, which entered into force on 1 January. Let's look at the calendar: it's not May yet, so it doesn't last four months. The essence of most of the provisions, which has now been brought here, is that, in addition to demonstrating the statistical objective, certain data from sectoral registers should also be transferred to the Central Statistical Office in a manner suitable for individual identification. This already affects the breach of information security. With the exception of the rules on the training of the statistical number and the new mandate of the government decree introduced in the statistical law, which is already valid on the day following the announcement, the law will enter into force on the eighth day thereafter, i.e. with a very short lead time. I would like to say in the background that in point 8 of this year's Spring Legislative Programme, the bill has already been tabled on the amendment of the laws relating to the implementation of the Law on Official Statistics. [[10.50]] So building a stealth dictatorship is planned, well designed in their legislative plan. As a matter of fact, the Prime Minister, who is the head of the Prime Minister's Office, indicated the following - speaker -:. The Act on Official Statistics allows the Central Statistical Office to collect data from administrative data sources. A number of laws restrict the receipt of such data in a manner which is suitable for individual identification, so that they need to be amended. So so far, very rightly, the law has restricted the transfer of data in a manner suitable for individual identification, and now they have decided that their receipt is necessary. That's a constitutional violation. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, There is no information on the NAIH website that the President of the Authority has delivered an opinion on the draft. So you're the only one who came up with this, not even the authorities you've reserved have shown this proposal. In the context of the amendment of the Statistics Act, the proposal refers to the interest of achieving consistency in order to allow the HCSO to access the administrative records governed by the amended legislation free of charge for official statistical purposes. The reasons why are not answered. Because. It's just that someone's interested in personal identification data. Let me give you an example of why an explanation would be required for the category of unique identification data available by the HCSO. Article 4 of the proposal is replaced by the following: § 2 of the Act amends the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. KSH has been entitled to require natural person identification data and address data, notification address data, nationality and marital status data. The place where the marriage or registered partnership was established, the gender, the reason, place and time of the removal from the register were also eligible for data. This field of data is now added to the personal identification mark in Article 4. In accordance with §8. So what could be requested separately and had information value, statistical value, but not directly capable of identifying the person, that data is now supplemented by the personal identification mark. So we don't know why KSH needs a personal number as a universal identifier. Remember, when the personal number was introduced, there was a huge debate as to whether this was not in violation of individual freedoms alone, because there is a great deal of connection in this. Now this extremely sensitive data, the personal number, will be made available to the HCSO in the context of this amendment. And it is only an IT question of what request for information is to be made, so that, let's say, the personal numbers of all Hungarian citizens entitled to the elections can be requested from one register, and then who knows where this stock can go afterwards. So, both for the protection of personal data and for the cleanliness of choice, this is an extremely critical and reprehensible amendment of the law. Why does KSH need this, since it can request the natural person identification data with the appropriate breakdown, which does not affect the identification required for the choice. You're playing with fire, fellow Members. I'm very careful that you take this step. There is a suspicion of preparing for election fraud. This will open the way for you to have a data file where personal numbers are available and can be used for other purposes in an identifiable way. An interesting sentence can be found at the beginning of the explanatory statement. This is definitely the top of cynicism, and a man with a good feeling just wonders when he reads it. He says that the official statistics are an important tool for democracy,, you talk about democracy,, because it allows all users of the data to base their political, policy, economic, business or personal decisions on controlled quality data and information based on reliable, factual, public and scientifically based methodology based on independent sources. Please, if you're going to openly admit that you want to wrap political decisions into KSH analyses, then why the Századvég? What you need for your political goals is there for money, and not for the taxpayers' expense. This is the sentence for which this bill is not worth wasting on the side of support. It is the KSH which, as I have already mentioned, was able to evaluate the data of the 2011 census in only 17 months and could not answer the usual questions of the past, so even then the census data was not fully evaluated. But we can also talk about the autumn of 14 when KSH deliberately did not publish the poverty data, because we still had the municipal election ahead of us. Then it was heard that the KSH, because you wrote it down, did not provide an analysis of the "Laeken Indicators," which would be a statutory task; just as it deleted the calculation and publication of the minimum living data from its activities, so that it could not compare the breakdown of Hungarian society with the data you consider official. The examples could be classified for a long time, but let me highlight one more case, the debate of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office with Eurostat, the Statistical Office of the European Union, which exploded because the Hungarian authorities, the KSH and the very well-friended, bluffing and questioning Hungarian National Bank did not transfer Eximbank from the financial corporate sector to the government sector as required by Eurostat. This small prank was probably due to the fact that the correct classification, i.e. the classification of Eximbank as equivalent to Eurostat, would have meant an increase in government debt in the government sector, because then Eximbank's loan would automatically appear on the sovereign debt section. So when you talk about scientifically sound data, unfortunately, a lot of people don't think about science, but about your behavior, what kind of bumps you're going to make by grouping the official data around to achieve goals that shouldn't be achieved in this way. Public debt should not be reduced by a statistically high level of Eximbank, which is obviously a lending institution, by placing public money in any event, so if there is a cost, it increases public debt, and this is not the way to hide it from official international statistics. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So I must say, honourable authors, that this is a Skandalum law, usually the operation of the KSH is scandalous, so take this back and put the operation of the KSH on a constitutional basis; no further destruction of the rule of law, no further destruction of the credibility of the Hungarian government and Hungary, because this can have very serious economic and legal consequences. Thank you very much. [[11.00]]
u2017-04-20-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. If my meeting allows me to sit in a stable position, we will continue, because the next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-31	Mr President, Dear House, In general, proposals on statistics and other subjects are welcomed quietly not only by the House but also by some political forces. I am an exception to this, and I consider what lies before us to be a very serious proposal. Not only because the government actually intends to amend almost the right number of other laws for the county of historic Hungary, but also to do so afterwards. [[Dr. István Józsa laughs.]] The same government did a few months ago. So there is some logical confusion in its operation, but if we're just talking about how it wants to be so deeply involved in the management methodology of sectoral records, then it's worth looking further. I myself do not have any paranoia, so I am not interested in the date on which this law enters into force, so I am not going to join the living tree in this regard, because our aim is not to challenge all elements of the proposal that have been put down. What broke the guarantee for me was indeed your justification, both the general explanation and part of the ideas attached to it, not all of them, only part of it, because you have to see how this government deals with statistical data, the way this government deals with encryption processes, the whole thing is outrageous. His justification goes against his actions in the field of reality. So we have to say that the KSH should gain as much data as possible, achieve this as easily as possible, this seems to be a logical thing, and it is quite clear that I, too, when, say, I ask for a meeting from a leader of the KSH at times, I am typically interested in population data, as these are the most important in Hungary's long-term destiny, then I will meet with good, prepared professionals, and I will meet with a prepared guard. I have to say, I have a feeling, it's just a subjective impression that this whole system is very vulnerable to current governance processes, government, and resources. I have made my budgetary recommendations in this regard in a timely manner in terms of consistency, so I am not only going to say this, but I have clearly given and given this the emphasis on the proposals for amendments during the budgetary period. But it is indeed a cause for concern that individual identification data are intended to be handled so uncontrollably in a sense that I do not see the purpose of it, since, in addition to the application of appropriate security techniques, these data, the necessary part, have been available to both the Statistical Office and those who have worked, worked, and draw very important conclusions. The fact that they are used in blocks in this way and in such an easy way to identify a voter is incomprehensible to me. I do not see the professional aims of this despite the justification. Once again, this is not cheap bondage about the day on which the changes come into force, amendments, because it is actually sweet to me. I see that the very sensitive personal data of those entitled to the election may be at risk, and I am not sure that I can only conclude this from this bill and from the paper package before them, but from the processes of the last few years. It is also interesting that, at the reference level, it is possible for Eurostat to work easier, but we are talking about precisely the Eurostat whose series of data we are bringing to order here in Parliament. I prefer the data produced here, but there are indeed some standard Eurostat data series that we used to confront the government, and you now question the reality content of these data in order and in a typical way. And now we are presented with a bill, where they would like to reach out to an organisation working in this debatable capacity. So we should decide which route is real and where they face traffic or where they don't. Eurostat data also show that four of the EU's most deprived regions are located in Hungary, in the eastern part of Hungary, and unfortunately this situation has not changed significantly in recent years. The fragmentation within the Union is brutal. This is why Jobbik has put forward its proposal for an EU wage, as it is apparent that in seven years the current government has not been able to substantially reduce this gap, this scissor, nor its size, nor its extent, and indeed the statistics are clearly available and expressive about the disaster that appears to unfold in Western Hungary and Eastern Hungary. There is a 30-year gap between regions. They're brutal. Now we can talk slowly twice about the past eight years, unfortunately we have not been able to solve these problems in that time. The reason for easier data extraction there is also a little false, when we look at how the government deals with encryptions, where appropriate, what it resolves, what it doesn't dissolve, or, if we just think about the investment in Paks, what processes it wants to encrypt, encrypt, how long it does all this for. We see that this can also poison the national economy, as it can cover and conceal very important national interests. In order to address two more points along this bill, this is justified by the processes of the recent months. On the one hand, the fact that the government produces regular relative economic data always refers to a similar period of the previous year. This is mainly in terms of wage increases, where you like to emphasise that wages have increased by 8-10-12 percent, let's say, compared to last year's period in a particular sector. At the same time, it conceals what is also clearly apparent from the relevant EU data sets, and it is perfectly clear that wages have increased to the smallest extent in Hungary, measured in euro, in a way that affects the whole region. So, if we look at the fact that we are falling behind as well as the neighbouring countries, then the government propaganda, according to which wages have increased by 10-20 or 30 percent compared to last year in some sectors, is no longer valid, as this is about your VAT reduction seasonal reporting line, where the point was that 25 percent VAT was raised - the European Union record - 27 percent VAT, and then of this 27 percent they make cosmetic concessions for certain small product groups. This was published last year in an average consumer basket of 6-7 percent. One or two product groups have now been added, although I still believe that the range of beneficiary products does not reach 10 percent in terms of an average consumer basket. So we have to say that the same cosmetics appear. I would very much like to see one of the ministers and secretary of state of the government come before us and hold an expo once on an agenda about how the Hungarian wages, measured in euro, have evolved in a regional comparison over the last ten years. It was my colleague Gergely Farkas who, in one question, confronted the possibly competent State Secretary that, for the last many years, it was almost ten years, how could wages in Eastern Central Europe have increased by an average of 60 per cent, in Hungary, if we had a large average for the years concerned and examined, and then by about 16. So we're talking about a gap that's unworkable for a dehydrated national economy. These should, moreover, be the subject of professional debates based on real statistical data, not only in terms of Islam, but also in terms of real professional debates. To do this, a much more resourced KSH would be very important. To this end, it would be very important to promote statistical provisions and otherwise test methods in a direction that is on the basis of professionalism. However, this package of proposals contains professionally positive elements, so those which I have to recognise, I do not want, and could not be linked to them, and contains some very, very worrying points. In closing, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the most important aspect of the HCSO is the examination of population and demographic data, and its possibility. We see relative clarity here in Hungary, so obviously we do not want to argue about the number of living births, because it is a relatively measurable area, we want this number to be as high as possible. At the same time, it is an examination of how Hungarian children can be born in the order of tens of thousands outside our current borders, and I am not referring to the disconnected parts, but to Western European countries or countries where Hungarian migrant workers appear in bulk, and to this day, Hungarian government representatives have not yet been able to place an exact number on the table in this respect, either in the form of an individual suggestion or in the form of an answer. So they rake and raisin from the data of foreign civil status offices, but in fact, the Government of Hungary does not have the necessary data in the most important area, or does not consider them to be so important as to communicate with them, or have these data, but it will keep them silent in its well-conceived interest, because it would appear that they have failed to achieve a systemic shift in Hungary's biggest disaster, the population disaster. I am not against you, I wish for you to make this move at last, but unfortunately, there has been no substantial progress in the last seven years. This is our biggest disaster, and perhaps even in a debate on statistics, we should consider a few points of substance, because if we do not resolve this, then it does not matter who will be in government in Hungary in 30-40 years, because we will be arguing only on the remnants of a country that has been balcanized, looted and colonised to the extreme, and I would like to avoid this. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]] [[11.10]]
u2017-04-20-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak as an independent MEP or as a representative of the national minority committee. I give the floor to Mrs Yaroslava Hartyányi, Ukrainian minority speaker. Here you go, Madam Speaker.
u2017-04-20-33	Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ державнΓ Збори! Рада, що вдад Ρментел Комиттту нацщональнихменшин та як представник укра.нсько. нацȚонально, меншини ма, можлившсть висловитизауваження до законопроекту Т/1570. Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as Ukrainian minority spokesperson, T/15070. Opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council on the draft law No. We considered this to be necessary, and the committee asked for a declaration as a minority item, because the general justification for the proposal mentioned the minority self-governments - true only in the usual way: parentheses -, farmers and civil society organisations as data controllers and reporting agents. I have to say at the outset that the bill concerns a law that has been drawn up in various topics over the course of nearly 30 years, and because of which it has been quite a task to review all of this and to concentrate solely on the proposals for amendments. We know that with regard to the subject matter of the item on the agenda, we can only respond to what is stated, despite the fact that the 64 laws concerned would not only wish to be amended or updated in relation to the proposal. In particular, the Commission's tasks and responsibilities and nationalities are affected by the bill 46. Article 48 of the so-called Civil Code. Article 64 of the Act on National Public Education and Article 64 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 2 of the Act amending the Law on Official Statistics. On the basis of the presentation, it can be seen that it was almost exclusively intended to comply with the requirement of harmonisation, and that it did not have any other intention of updating it. When adopting the amendment of the law, which there is no doubt, please take into account and state in some way to which the committee intends to exercise its right to propose that the national minority authorities, except for the national one, are not independent reporting agents, since local authorities comply with the reporting obligation of local minority authorities on the basis of cooperation agreements under the nationality law. Article 28 of the Act concerning the provision of data § 8 of the agreement must be concluded and fulfilled by the KSH and the local government, also with regard to the national authorities. Local self-governments should not be charged with additional tasks and costs by adopting the legislative amendment. National minority self-governments and minority civil society organisations are independent reporting agents with content and deadlines according to the standards. It should also be mentioned that it is not possible for them to keep a register of personal data in accordance with the applicable laws, except for name and address, so they cannot provide any other data, which the election offices have. The Committee considers it important that legal guarantees regarding the management of so-called sensitive ethnicity data continue to be implemented in the future. The communication of sensitive data is voluntary, and it is particularly important to achieve the objective. We support the adoption of the bill, taking into account what is stated here. Thank you for your kind attention. just like that, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2017-04-20-34	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, There is now room for further speeches by Members. I would like to start by giving the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, from the Fidesz Group, once again. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-20-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what was said in the lecture of the MSZP, and thank you very much for the fact that István Józsa has now sat up and listened to it, because I would like to talk about exactly what you have said in your speech. It happens that when you talk about how different personal data, personal IDs or any data are handled, how they would be handled within the Statistical Office, this, my fellow Member, does not cover reality; what you are talking about is abuse, a crime. At present, according to the statistical law and EU legislation, what you are saying is not legally possible. If you will experience this, then, please, it is your duty to take the necessary criminal measures. Both EU legislation and the Act on Official Statistics lay down very strict, very strict data processing provisions for KSH. You just told me in your keynote speech that you might not follow them. You have to follow them. What you have said cannot happen legally in Hungary. The KSH may do two things after statistical processing with personal identification data: it must either delete the data on a mandatory basis, or - and the Secretary of State has mentioned this - it must be stored separately and cannot be left linked. Allow me to quote you from an EU regulation. Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2009 on European statistics 17a. In order to reduce the burden on respondents, the national statistical offices, the other national authorities referred to in Article 4 and the Commission shall be entitled to immediate and free access to administrative records, to their immediate and free use and to include data on these administrative records in the statistics. This is how the current amendment acts, my honourable fellow Member, to transpose the findings of this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council into our law, among other things. We do nothing but adapt Hungarian laws to European Union laws and requirements. Once again, I would like to point out, as a closing point, that the controller of personal data cannot currently do any abuse or any data linking, and this is guaranteed by both the Hungarian law and EU legislation. So if this happens, abuse is a crime, but the law forbids it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-20-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr István Józsa, from the MSZP Group, will also be followed by a repeated speech. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.20]]
u2017-04-20-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman, you are absolutely right that these are prohibited by the Data Management Act. In a normal country where there can be no suspicion of misuse of data, where it is not possible for the Attorney General to set aside certain files, for other political purposes, people who cannot be prosecuted to prosecute to do so are treated differently in order to comply with these data management rules and to comply with them. If you could be trusted, if the KSH had not shown in its practice examples that it did not produce statistics required by certain laws, that it would retain data in breach of the usual publication date, so if your governance had been done according to the law, since 2010, the Central Statistical Office, then we probably would not have to use the suspicion lawsuit that if the personal identification number had been entered there, it might have been abused. That's why I'm telling you to prevent this suspicion, and with an absolving law, this is, after all, not to allow the personal identification number to be placed at the disposal of the KSH. Avoid any abuse, because experience is that where the opportunity is available, you are using the data for political purposes. So don't frame yourself for this suspicion, don't drag yourself on to take another step towards breaking down the rule of law. I know you don't personally do these manipulations, but the practice, the facts show that such political actions have taken place in the operation of the Central Statistical Office. Even at the time of the first Orbán government, the night of the long charms was in 1998 when the president of the National Tax Office was Lajos Simicska, during the first measures there was some sort of event at the calculating center, which has not been able to clarify exactly what data, but which is a sensitive tax secret, has disappeared. Where certain data is available, it can be used or abused. Do not let the Central Statistical Office have it, please. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-20-38	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-39	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. I don't want to repeat what was said in the exposé. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that, as on many other occasions, we look forward to the proposals that you believe are concerned about, which are dealt with in the bill. As my colleagues, as colleagues of the KSH, are open to conducting this consultation, there is still room. I think that, if we can agree on the direction of regulation, technical agreements can be concluded in such detail. Mr President, I would like to respond to Mr Józsa on three more points. One is a technical one: NAIH commented on the material. The congressman was wrong about that. However, the other two are more comprehensive. The fact that the statistics published by the HCSO do not reinforce the aspect or not of the political perspective that you represent is not certain that the data is a problem. Maybe you're in the wrong place. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's not what I meant.]] So accusing KSH of any data being cosmeticated or not making public as this is happening is not entirely correct because KSH cannot defend itself in this debate. However, I would very much like to draw the Member's attention and, with regard to his future speeches, I would like to ask that he cannot justify any fact that the HCSO has failed to comply with any data that anyone would have requested from the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. To accuse the current government of what you did in 2006, thanks to which you were elected in 2006, that data on the country's real financial situation had not been made public before the elections and that was no longer political cynicism. The Member may know what it is like to abuse statistical data and results, because the fact that the MSZP's agonisation was extended four years after 2006 to the detriment of the country was also due to how the data were treated at that time. This is not the government you were part of. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-20-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill on the free possession of certain state-owned properties by the Church until closure. The government referral is T/15058. Available to all of them on the IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor. You have a 30-minute window. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Act on National Property, established as a fundamental law under the Fundamental Law, lays down the requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets and the limits and conditions for the disposal of national assets of high national importance. Under the Fundamental Law, national assets may be transferred only for the purposes laid down by law, subject to the requirement of proportionality. The buildings to be handed over to churches, church legal entities named as beneficiaries in the bill before us serve to carry out public tasks and other ecclesiastical tasks taken over from the state, municipalities. The government is entitled to assist established churches with real estate necessary to carry on their public activities, and the bill submitted serves this purpose. This bill provides for the transfer of state property to the benefit of free ecclesiastical legal persons, in accordance with the basic law, under the laws on national property and state property, in order to assist the public tasks they undertake. On the basis of the proposal, Egri's Egyház County and the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary, Esztergom-Budapest's Egyház County, have two real estate properties, while Don Bosco's Salézi Company is granted free ownership of a part of a state property. The bill also favours the Hungarian Orthodox Exarchate of the Universal Patriarchate of Constantinople. The exarchate receives the property of the Károlyi Palace at the corner of Múzeum utca and Ötpacsirta utca from two separate real estates, registered with two separate localization numbers, with effect from 1 September 2017. I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that the Palace of Károlyi is included in the list of monument-protected structures of national property which are of particular importance for the national economy. In order to enable the beneficiary to use the property received only in accordance with the purpose of the transfer, an indefinite disposal and debit ban is imposed on the basis of the bill. I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that the protection of the historic property to be transferred does not cease with the transfer of ownership, and the beneficiary is also obliged to comply with the specific legal requirements for protection in all cases. The transfer of the property to the Hungarian Orthodox Exarchate of Constantinople, the Universal Patriarchate of Constantinople, is justified by the fact that the Patriarchate of Constantinople has not yet benefited from any of the following religious real estate benefits. For administrative reasons, the church registered itself as an independent church in Hungary only in 1995; therefore, its real estate requirements were not enforced in the context of the real estate settlement procedures in the early 1990s. The church currently does not have a suitable liturgical and religious place in Budapest. In our view, it is appreciated that there should be a permanent place in the capital where the church can properly practice its liturgy and control the church. They also want to establish a church dialogue centre or academy in the property. The real estate to be transferred under the bill will primarily require the performance of educational tasks, including primary and secondary education and higher education, as well as cultural, social and religious tasks. In my view, the adoption of the bill would help to carry out the tasks of churches taken over from the state, and the transfer of property to the public service should be supported by all parliamentary parties. On this basis, I would ask the Honourable Parliament that, in addition to considering what has been said, T/15058. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[11.30]]
u2017-04-20-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Zoltán Bóna. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a matter of joy and pride, we note that under the law adopted at yesterday's meeting, the Tisza Castle in Gegest may be owned by the Reformed Church of Hungary. The dignity and correctness of the aim and vision behind this legislation is also demonstrated by the fact that more than two thirds of the Members of Parliament thought that the useful and fruitful cooperation between the state and the churches had an important role to play in the service of our nation. I hope that there are as many Members among those voting with no as possible who, if not now, will eventually recognize the national preservation of our churches that they have been doing for centuries. Like the relevant part of our Fundamental Law, the T/1505 is the subject of this agenda. There is a strong conviction behind the bill that we are fulfilling our historic duty to ensure freedom of religion and to work together widely with the churches to serve the rise of the nation. As confirmed by the title of the bill, this cooperation is implemented by the free ownership of certain state-owned properties. In the context of this bill, it is important to emphasise the principle that the Fundamental Law states:. The State and religious communities operate separately. Religious communities are independent. The State and religious communities can work together to achieve Community goals. We are convinced that one of the most effective ways to work together is to provide the necessary tools for the proper care of the state, especially education, social, family, children's and youth, as well as cultural tasks, provided by the churches. This is supported by the 1997 CXXIV. Law No. 10. §2 of the Act, under which the Government is entitled to assist in the acquisition of property necessary for the pursuit of the public activities of established churches. It is important to point out that the buildings in the bill before us include the cellar system under the Archbishop's Palace in Eger, the János Vitéz Catholic Secondary School for Language Education in Esztergom, and the college building in the use of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, which in 1951 were brought to the Hungarian state in the name of confiscation. In view of this, not only is it rationality that dictates the ownership of college buildings to the Catholic Church, but it is also our unquestioned moral duty. With regard to the future of the property, there is no doubt that it is an important public interest that the new owners, by developing these buildings, want to provide a decent environment for children living and learning in the building. The building in Újpest, which from 1924 until the nationalization of the institute, was in operation of the Salesian order and was originally built as a shelter for children, also justifies the unity of church ownership and treatment. We are convinced that the transaction also serves the survival, development and proper exploitation of this property. The fact that the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary is committed to the establishment of a nursery and kindergarten in an empty property next to the Synagogue of Miskolc gives reason for confidence. Even the fellow Members of the opposition parties have no doubt that it is an important step forward if the Orthodox Exarchate of the Universal Patriarchate of Constantinople in Hungary can finally find a real home after a long hurling. In this case, in addition to cooperation between the state and churches, the establishment of fundamental conditions for religious practice also justifies the adoption of this draft. I therefore urge my fellow opposition Members to demonstrate their commitment to religious freedom, often expressed in the form of active action by pressing the 'yes' button. Following the five-party consultation, I respectfully ask you to support this proposal with respect to the centuries-old national preservation of churches, historic justice, common interest and rationality. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-20-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary.
u2017-04-20-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as I indicated at the five-party meeting to the other Secretary of State, will support this proposal. At the time, I was unable to add a declaration of approval of the parliamentary presidency, and I can now do that. So, according to the decision of our parliamentary presidency, we will support the entire proposal, regardless of whether there are half or two thirds of the law. With regard to all churches, we believe that this is a matter of support and importance, even because in every case, according to the explanatory statement, at least a public purpose, a public task for these buildings. So not only does the church get ownership, obviously besides the ban on disposal and debiting on real estate, but they also add a kind of public service obligation. That's why we think it's to be supported. And as long as this type of thinking, wealth management exists, we would also like to support the transfer of ownership in similar or other churches. With certain reservations, I would like to discuss this at the end. It has been suggested at the five-party meeting that there is a certain idea in the compilation of this package. I'd rather hope or think there's something lifelike about it. In Hungarian, as they come from the leaders of different churches to perform certain tasks, and also to certain properties, the government decides, after some consideration, how to resolve these wishes. I hope that this type of attitude, this kind of gesture to the historical churches in Hungary, will characterize the current government. That's why we think of supporting this in every case, including here. I would like to add that, at the same time, the churches, in the current package, are listed as many churches that are receiving this gesture, and it would also be good to have, in a sense, the social-life role that I am not sure that they are doing at present in every case and in the same way. What do I mean? For example, I would like to refer primarily to active relations with other historical Christian denominations. It would be good if this were to become a daily practice in this regard. Obviously, I am not referring to the Catholic Church, it is clearly involved, and even has an initiative in this kind of relationship, but in the case of other churches this may arise. If it is possible to impose expectations on the part of the government in this regard, I will say this very carefully, perhaps this would be it. There's one more thing I'd like to say in conclusion. I mentioned that we may not always be able to support such gestures without a cloud in the case of all churches. I would like to clarify and clarify this now. Obviously, I am not referring to the historical churches, but there are religious associations that have already appeared in Hungary, these are certain fan churches, which could be classified as sects of American roots. I do have reservations about that, I dare say that. I very much hope that the government, but in general, the current government, would be careful if, for example, there was a demand for real estate in relation to such churches. [[11.40]] In addition, unfortunately, we do not see complete unity and a sense of responsibility in Fidesz policy in this regard. I very much hope that in the future this will be clearly and purely confined to the typically historical churches, also because it is their dogmatism that has endured the test of the centuries. So they can certainly be entrusted with a public mission, a public goal that we know will be performed fairly and in accordance with social responsibility. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-20-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring session, the third law is before the Parliament, which is about the free transfer of state property. It began with the dedication of the castle of Gesteş to the Reformed Church, which was voted on yesterday. He continued to hand over the 60th castle to the hunting chamber from which they danced back. And now we have this proposal that proposes to transfer additional real estate to different churches. In relation to the two previous legislative proposals, he strongly stated that the preservation of national assets is a priority, and therefore we cannot support the attempt to mitigate the rules for the free transfer of property under the State Property Act. Of course, it cannot be ignored that, as in T/14241. This is also the case for the transfer of real estate to churches. It considers the social role of churches to be important, and not only in carrying out social, cultural and educational tasks taken over from the state, but also in the pursuit of faith-life activities. In addition, in order to preserve the autonomy of the churches, it is essential that the state does not settle itself on the churches, to establish regulations with which it can keep them dependent, to be able to grant discounts with decisions as it pleases, and to withdraw subsidies in this context. The lead speaker of Fidesz, Zoltán Bóna, began by saying that it was a joyful and proud thing that was adopted yesterday in connection with the castle in Gegest. I don't feel that way at all, and we don't feel that way at all, because we are talking about an individual decision that doesn't meet normative criteria. We think that we did not vote 'no', and many people did not vote 'no' because we would not see the importance of the social role of churches or appreciate their religious activity. We voted 'no' because this procedure, which takes place in such a unique way, with which we are practically dependent, can bring churches, is not acceptable. For the free transfer of wealth from the churches to carry out their duties and beliefs from the state, the former T/14241. The government intends to create an opportunity with a number of proposals, on which we see both values that we consider to be important. The government's reward and punishment policy was published as early as the year-end distribution. And the proposal before us now is a continuation of this policy of dependence on churches, which punishes churches that are less sympathetic and which may endanger their political goals. Think about it, fellow Members, in this case three churches and one order of monks will receive real estate. Why them? Why isn't it in there? We are talking about the 500th anniversary of the Reformation on October 31, which is the symbolic event of Martin Luther setting the castle gate for his points. We all know he's the founder of an Evangelical Church. Where's the Evangelical Church? Why did you miss it? Was it because he was somewhat critical of government policy? Because he was critical. Why did you miss it? It can be seen that this is indeed an act of the state, the government, that it gives to the kind ones and does not give to others, or even takes away. Mr Bóna, in his main speech, said that the Constitution includes the need to separate the state and religious communities. Yes, that is precisely what this proposal contradicts, and it also contradicts that normism - what will we discuss next week, which churches? Which of the 27 churches we will discuss one by one, which goes there and lobbies a little for their own good, but I need this property, and then it's okay, so we'll give it to you. What kind of legislation is this, fellow Members? Where's the norm? We believe that the state should provide resources for the assumed public tasks in a transparent, normative, sector-neutral system, and that support for faith-life activity should also take place in a predefined, normative order, in order to preserve their independence, and that the possibility of elements depending on the government's ad hoc decisions should be excluded from the system. The transfer of property to churches should be resolved through the compensation regulation, according to its principles, and, where appropriate, reviewed. If you see, let us admit, there is much ground for it, and then I will discuss it in detail in relation to certain assets, that there is indeed a reason to review this compensation at that time, the compensation in the early 1990s, because many of its flaws are manifest. However, the primary objective of the State's assets is to provide adequate funds for the public services it provides. However, the state, we see, does not deal with the creation and maintenance of public services that are accessible and of good quality by everyone, but rather with the dismantling and distribution of wealth. There is no objection to the fact that the use of the property is already threatened by a church for the purpose of managing or using property to carry out the tasks assumed by the State, but the reduction of the transfer of property and the ban on disposal for 15 years is already a threat to the protection of the national property. It is clear that it is possible to look at the concrete reasons behind a real estate transfer, and it is clear that there are reasonable and acceptable reasons, as this may arise in connection with the transfer of assets to the Hungarian Orthodox Exarchate of the Patriarchate of Constantinople, which is specifically included in the proposal, but we are convinced that in all such cases the legitimate need should be settled within the corresponding legislative framework. Although the justification for the Orthodox Exarchate in Hungary does not include it, it is possible to suspect that there may be a loss of compensation. After the communist takeover, in 1949, the Hungarian orthodox came under the authority of the Moscow Patriarchy, there is nothing surprising about this. This decision was contested by the Patriarchate of Constantinople, as the decision was not based on the real canon law, but was the result of the political situation in Eastern Europe that the Hungarian property was not received by the Church of Constantinople, but by the Church of Moscow. Let's face it, it wouldn't have been much of a basis for this to be given to Moscow; it might have been a Soviet rule. So this is the reason, and in other Central and Eastern European countries, which belonged to the Soviet sphere, the same has happened. Thus, after the change of regime, succession disputes arose. The Orthodox Exarchate of Hungary, the Church of Constantinople, was reorganized at the time of the change of regime, and was registered in court on 19 September 1995. This separates the Hungarian Orthodox Diocese, which is loyal to Moscow, and the Orthodox Exarchate of Hungary, which recognizes the sovereignty of Constantinople. [[11.50]] Since the Orthodox Exarchate in Hungary has obviously been left out of compensation, since it did not exist at the time in law, we believe that the transfer of property would be justified on this basis, but we believe that this would only be possible in a regulated context of compensation, the LMP would consider it the best way for this church to receive it. Obviously, there were lawsuits here, maybe they know the story of it, and the Church of Constantinople couldn't prove that he was demanding it, and he lost the lawsuit against his Moscows. I wouldn't particularly like to agree to why Fidesz doesn't want to come up with that right now, or to be examined. In fact, we do not have such a problem with the Orthodox Church in Moscow itself, so they do deserve the property, the Constantinoples also deserve the property, but such legislation is not the best way to get it. Some thoughts about certain properties. Let's face it, it starts with the Eger. The Eger case is also interesting and much more eligible than the others - if we look at it individually and go beyond the fact that this procedure is not generally acceptable as you do - because, in the case of Eger, the local government has also contributed to it, and here, during a multi-stage procedure, it started last autumn to return the cellar with a low utilisation rate to the church, the municipality decided to do so and came to us. So it was a municipal asset, it became a state asset, and that's how you can get it back now. It is also known that a tourist visitor centre will be built from this by the gesturing of the Egri Archdiocese. There is no problem in this sense, as it is unused, the municipality is also happy to pass it on to this purpose, so it does not seem individually problematic. Let's take a look at the lathe, this looks a lot more problematic. According to Esztergom languages, a little research, if you ask, you want to use it as a dorm. Where are the students who are going to move into this dorm right now? In another dorm, which is also ecclesiastical. However, according to the architect of the Archdiocese, that church college would be much better if it were a hotel, and now there are plans for it. So you're moving the dorms from one of the dorms that is currently in the church, to one that the church is about to receive from the building that is currently a church college, a church hotel. Well, that's not really fair, we think it's not a literal, neither educational, nor social responsibility, but we believe it's not even a religious activity, it's an economic activity. I'd be happy to argue with you, correct me, if not, I can't conclusively confirm that this is true, but we have heard from several places that it is the intention, and time will prove that from the building from which you will move into this, you will be preparing a hotel in the county of the Archdiocese. Lifelikeness and normality, that's what we'd expect. The former lead speaker said that if one of the churches applied, let's say, an American church, they wouldn't support it. We Members of Parliament cannot really do that once we have accepted it and there is equality of rights, we say that we are sympathetic, we are now in favour of this church, we are not sympathetic, because so much jumping and singing, we are not in favour of it, or perhaps other people's ideas about the world. We cannot do this in a neutral way, fellow Members, it is not a normative thing, it is not a system of equality of rights, if we treat one church in this way and treat the other church in that way. We are convinced that this cannot be done in a rule of law, and that there are enough problems with the law of the Church, which we are now in, despite the fact that it has appeared several times and is not accepted. We believe that the May Other Politics is of the opinion that this form cannot be supported, despite the fact that there are elements to be supported, in individual cases specific elements that would be acceptable, but in general this procedure opens the gate. As the transfer of the castle of Gesteş opened Pandora's box, this will result in a lot of similar cases, with which there are many problems. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, there may come a time when you yourselves will regret opening this box, because it is now enshrined in the law, and who knows that a future government [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Who may not be working according to your taste, and how he will abuse it, as you are now using it. Thank you.
u2017-04-20-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Szászfalvi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has always given priority to the educational, social, cultural and community activities of the churches, as they have contributed centuries of sacrifice to the strengthening of Hungary and the Hungarian society, the Hungarian nation, and in recent decades, I believe that after the change of regime, the churches in Hungary, the historical churches in Hungary, have made a special contribution and contribute not only to their institutional system, but also to the healthy reconstruction of the Hungarian nation and the strengthening of Hungarian society in terms of community building and religious activity. The properties listed in the bill before us are necessary for the church's most efficient and up-to-date work, especially in the field of education. Allow me, my fellow Members, to refer back to the fact that, during the communist dictatorship, the wealth of the churches was taken not only in respect of property in the interior but also in respect of property in the outskirts. It is true that we have completed a 25-year-old church compensation process over the past years, but we all know, at least I hope we all know that this compensation process was just a partial compensation process. I therefore believe that we can all agree with the content of this bill, since this bill aims to give these properties to the churches; it is for purpose, because they are used for an appropriate purpose, for educational, cultural and other community activities. I would therefore like to point out that the KDNP welcomes this bill and supports the Government's presentation. Obviously, it would also be possible to argue for hours about why only partial compensation was made to churches during the previous 25-year process, what happened to the wealth, the assets that were not returned to the Church's property. Here we can actually talk about the wealth, land, and forest areas that have actually been designed for centuries to maintain and operate a system of religious education and social institutions. So the assets that were owned by the church at the time were not assets of l. art pour l. art, but were the economic basis for the operation of an efficient institutional system, which was completely deprived of our historic churches, and, as I said, only very partial compensation was made in the last 25 years. We believe that some of the steps that, in addition to partial compensation, involve the transfer of assets from state property to churches still do not constitute a full compensation to the churches. [[12.00]] These real estates, these properties to be owned, serve to enable churches to carry out their public tasks, public goals in ecclesiastical, educational, social or community-building or cultural areas. This is why KDNP supports this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, for some thought, let me talk about real estate in more detail. The five properties in the bill are planned to be handed over to churches in Hungary by adopting the law, which, as I said, played a significant role in the life of the country and the nation. Let me give you a few thoughts on the Eger cellar system, which we pass on to promote cultural and faith-life tasks, to the Eger Archdiocese. The situation of the cellar system under the Archbishop of Eger was increasingly necessary. The property is part of the cellar system under the Archbishop of Eger, so it is constructed underground. The property is only connected to electricity supply. In the 1339/2016 Government Decision, the cellar system was purchased from the municipality of Eger in December 2016. According to paragraph 3 of the Government Decision, the Government called on the Minister for National Development and the Minister for the Prime Minister's Office to ensure that, following the purchase of the cellar system by the Hungarian State, the submission of the submission of the measures necessary for the free transfer of the cellar system to the Eger County. Esztergom 16363/1 is located in nature at Esztergom, 5 Helischer József utca, and 17323 landmarks, located in nature at 25 Kossuth Lajos utca, are transferred free of charge to the property of Esztergom-Budapest Főegyház County in the spirit of the bill in order to facilitate its educational tasks. The Esztergom-Budapest County of Budapest initiated the ownership of the German National Elementary School of Language Teaching and the college building of Pázmány Péter Catholic University, which is in its possession, in view of the fact that it is an obstacle to its start-up in real estate development applications. The property is currently used to perform educational tasks, and Esztergom 16363/1 is used by the above-mentioned school, which is operated by Esztergom-Budapest County. The municipality of Esztergom is entitled to the right of pre-emption, as indicated in the deed. Both properties were owned by the Hungarian State under confiscation of property. The property is registered under the management rights of the School of Roman Catholic Teaching János Vitéz. I mentioned that, too. The third property, Miskolc 3678/A/1, is owned by the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary in order to facilitate the educational tasks of the building in Miskolc, Kazinczy utca 12. The Unified Israeli Community of Hungary initiated the construction of a nursery and kindergarten next to the Synagogue of Miskolc. The property owned by State 1/1 is currently out of use, and once BM- kindergarten operated in this property. The applicant plans to renovate or install the building in accordance with the former function. The fourth property: Budapest IV. in its district, the property number 72997. In order to promote educational, educational and higher education tasks, the Don Bosco Salézi Company would own this property, which belonged to the Károlyi family and was originally built as a shelter for children. The property was operated by the salesian order from 1924 until the institution was nationalized. The building ensemble also includes a church, wedged between the two wings of the building, with parish functions still present. Finally, Budapest 36563 and 36572/2 would be handed over in a way and in a public service. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, On this basis, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this bill, also mentioning that it was also mentioned here at the five-party conciliation that why the government is submitting these legislative proposals in rations. I think it is important for all of us to know that this is a detailed presentation. Of course, the only way for such a bill to come before this House is for the government to discuss all its complex real estate, economic and other contexts. This could happen now, and that is why this bill is coming before us right now. So we can decide with a calm heart and a good conscience. The KDNP Group supports this on the basis of the arguments set out above, and we ask the other groups and our fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-20-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I would like to address Mr Attila Mesterházy from the MSZP Group first. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-20-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to make a long comment, as my fellow Member Ikotity has said in very detailed detail, in a very good comment, almost the thoughts that I could have said myself. However, let me draw attention to one or two things, especially in the light of what my fellow Member, who has just said, has just said. He said that there was only partial compensation for the churches and that there was no complete compensation. That is true, but no one else has been fully compensated. So there was a historical time when a lot of people suffered the burden and the damage, and very many individuals, families, and churches, for example, could not receive complete compensation. So I think that if we want to link this issue to such a full or complete compensation, then I think we are wrong, because then we are walking into the field of injustice, because many others would be entitled to this type of compensation. The other thing is that this has expanded since the beginning of the year, as you mentioned, because in the beginning it was just about property in Eger, and then the number of these properties has now expanded. Here, I would like to point out once again what has already been said by the LMP, and this is that the ad hoc approach is in no way good. In fact, a measure is a good measure if it is neutral, so it is a systemic measure in Hungarian, and indeed it is not such a cherry peeling. It does not depend on whether someone can get a property or any discount from the Hungarian Parliament, how well they can lobby, or how kind they are to the ruling majority. We would therefore support, for our part, a system or a series of measures in general, and also in this particular case, which, in some form neutrally and systematically treats this story, not in relation to a property, in many cases, even now, in this case, a fundamental law, because there is one that requires a half majority, but there is one among these real estates that also affects property law. So we are saying that there is no problem with the purpose, so we would not argue that it cannot be reasonable, timely or, where appropriate, appropriate for such a transfer of property either to churches or to other civil society organisations or to interest organisations. [[12.10]] But we claim that perhaps the method, methodology, of this is not the luckiest because of the ad hoc nature of this. Therefore, it would be worth reviewing nationally where such properties may be, where, for example, properties that are owned or owned by public companies and have previously served other purposes. There must be a great many of these real estates at the MÁV across the country, and then it would be worth managing in some way the Hungarian Parliament. So I just wanted to say that the voting position of the MSZP is probably going to follow this idea. So it's not the purpose, it's probably the form of it. Therefore, we are most likely to abstain from voting, because it may not in any way be possible to vote or be allowed to vote in such a case. So I just wanted to put this to the attention of the authors, and actually just a little bit of support for what my colleague at LMP said about this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-20-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tamás László from the Fidesz Group is next.
u2017-04-20-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say that I have a few words from Congressman István Ikotity, I must say that I was badly touched when he doubted why the order of why that church would receive a property. I am now specifically on IV. About district property transferred to salesia, let me give you a few thoughts. This real estate ensemble, I believe, was an extremely important property for the salesians. This belonged to Rákospalota in the former situation of my electoral district. Her name was Clarisseum, and I have to tell you, the salesia were replaced by blood. There was a monk named István Sándor, who was executed in 1953, simply because he was dealing with young people. So I think that you should look a little more closely at the stories connected to these buildings, these former maintenance staff of incredible quality, and I think that István Sándor's martyrdom is simply the name, function, and martyrdom of this building predestining to give it back to the salesias. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-20-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity is next, to speak again. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. László Szászfalvi KDNP Prime Speaker I would like to respond to some points. One is that they are dosed; they are dosed to receive these state, national property. There's nothing wrong with being dosed, but actually this process, this dosage now looks like it's coming. Then we'll see if the government's going to discuss it, in a social or broader discussion, so that no one can accidentally see if it's all right. So that doesn't hold up, we think it's dosed. You can dose it, you can schedule it on a quarterly basis, that you'll now collect three months, take a closer look, and you'll get it. It's possible to establish a time frame, but as you're coming, we'll discuss it quickly, and then we'll give it to you, it's not a normative procedure, Congressman. I would very much like to have an answer to our suggestion and confirm whether I know or not what I have said about the property in Esztergom. As for Tamás László's speech, I quote, you should look a little further into what happened, referring here to the IV. in the district of a property and the story of a monk from Salesa. Dear Mr Tamás László, Believe me, I know these stories quite well, I know many others, and also locals, especially my own residential area, my hometown, Baja, I know the story very well, but many others as well. I'm saying that these are very serious things. The state can never make up for the churches for the things they did to the Communists. You have to be on it to make that happen, but you have to put it in a normative form. We would support whether - two and a half decades have passed - whether it is to be reviewed, how this compensation was done, and we would also support that the churches should have a greater role, greater wealth if they were to carry out a larger task, of course, but that this is not in normative form, in an ad hoc way, and with arguments that this monk did so here, and then they would have a property... How many more, dear Congressman Tamás László, how many other cities, how many churches, how many churches, how many religious orders can come up with how much sacrifice they have made here, and how much rightfully they can do this? But do they always get a property like this? This is not a normal procedure, we think it is not expected to be supported in this form. With all due respect, answer the question regarding the property in Esztergom. Thank you.
u2017-04-20-56	Thank you very much. It's time for Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank Congressman Mesterházy for his correct comments. Let me add so much to the process of ecclesiastical indemnification that, of course, it was partial, as was the other indemnities, but it was the very strong conclusion that it could only be reclaimed on purpose. So the churches didn't have l. art pour l. art, they had to claim or claim these items in the process of compensation, but were specifically targeted, or to help them achieve religious or social, educational or other goals. So I think it was also a pretty strong and hard commitment. I would like to respond to the wording of the ad hoc measure, as my colleague Ikotity said, so that it can be put in a way that I would rather say that it is adapted to life. Not in a life-altering and normative way, that even if there is no situation, let us introduce a bill, but flexibly, adapted to life, in a life-smelling way that we can come to the end of. There are, however, real estate matters, my fellow Member, which have been going on for 20 years, and we have not yet come to an end, and there have been cases that have been going on for 10-15 years; see, for example, Zsámbek, and I do not want to give any more specific examples. So I think that many times our opposition fellow Members are asking us to try to bring in the legislative proposals in a lively way. I think this really is a life-smelling bill, because what we're going to get to the end of, which is negotiated with all the parties involved, which has to end, it's here, and if the rest of it goes to this stage, it's obviously gonna end up here. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-20-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Róbert Homolya, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-20-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, I was pleased to hear that there is no question on either side of the faction that the Hungarian State has a serious historical debt in relation to their past grievances against the churches, but I would like to point out that this proposal is not about this and does not concern this. In recent times, if we look at only the last ten or twenty years, the social involvement of churches has changed greatly, and this is always adapted to social needs and local needs that appear in connection with public and ecclesiastical engagement. I would argue with the arguments raised by individual representatives that the free transfer of these properties to the churches is ad hoc, since it is apparent that in each case the state decides on a local initiative, a local need, a local social need, or proposes a decision to provide the churches with a means to carry out these tasks. [[12.20]] There was an addictive situation here. An addictive situation is precisely when we take away from the churches the goods and means necessary to carry out their duties. But it is a completely different matter, that we want to put an end to this dependent situation, so that they are not vulnerable to how to carry out their activities. The state and the government are trying to help them with this when they give these properties to the churches free of charge to meet an end-to-end social need. So I'd argue with the norm. Unfortunately, this is the way in law that, if there is such a claim, it must be examined, and it is the task of the legislation to decide, yes or no - even in this case - to give these properties to the churches free of charge. I think that everyone should account for their own conscience when deciding on such a proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-20-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the publication of Annex 2 to the Convention on the development, construction and financing of the reconstruction phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line in Hungary until its closure. The government referral is T/15034. is available to all on the IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. The time frame is 30 minutes.
u2017-04-20-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The submitted bill provides for the publication of Annex 2 to the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the development, implementation and financing of the reconstruction phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line in Hungary. This document was signed on 26 January 2017 in Budapest. Within the framework of the Budapest-Belgrád railway reconstruction project, the Contracting Parties cooperate in the development of a new two-track, electrified rail track with a 200 km/h speed geometry with a European standard with an axle load of 225 kilonewton, which will be fully compatible with European Union technical standards, on line 157 between Budapest-Ferencváros and Kelebia border crossings, with a speed of 160 km/h. Under the relevant European Union Directive, there is no prior obligation to give an opinion on Annex 2 to the Convention, but there is only an obligation to provide information to the European Commission, so Annex 2 to the Convention was sent to the European Commission for information on 29 March 2017. Annex 2 to the Convention contains amendments to the implementation structure of the Budapest-Belgrád railway development project, supplementing the procurement rules, such as the place of publication of the contract notice, the assessment criteria and the area of redress. It is important to note that this procurement regulation, as assessed by the European Commission, fully complies with the relevant EU public procurement directives. The implementation of the railway project significantly shortens the journey time between Budapest and Belgrade to 3 1/2 hours instead of the current 8:00, so the railway connection between the two cities can offer a meaningful alternative to the road and air routes in the future. The development of the Hungarian phase will also significantly improve the rail accessibility of the affected domestic areas and the quality of passenger traffic. It is important to note that the port of Pyreus was taken over in 2008 for Chinese operations. During the period from 2008 to 2017, container traffic in this port has practically become ninefold, so I think that there is also an important geopolitical importance for how, in what direction and with which countries the rail freight link between the port of Pyreus and Europe will be able to be achieved in the future. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/15034 Adopt bill No 2 and support the publication of Annex 2 to the Convention. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-20-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-20-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports this bill, which aims at the 2016 XXIV. published by law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China, the publication by law of Annex 2 to the Convention on the Development, Implementation and Financing of the Hungarian Phase of the Budapest-Belgrád Railway Construction Investment. The details and interpretations of the contract procedure are set out in the Annex. All of this is essential for the start of the reconstruction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. The importance of the development of the railway line is enormous for Hungary. The modernisation of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is the flagship project of the cooperation between China and Central and Eastern Europe, the key European link of the New Silk Road, which forms part of a zone, a road initiative. Following the renovation, the freight transport Corridor between the port of Pireus in Greece and Western Europe through Hungary, Serbia and Macedonia will become the fastest alternative to combined maritime-rail freight transport between China and Europe. The modernisation of the railway line contributes to Hungary becoming the number one regional logistics base for Chinese goods traffic to Europe, for which it has all the potential, given its ideal geographical location, a highly skilled workforce and a consciously developed favourable investment environment. Within the framework of the project, the Budapest-Ferencváros-Kunszentmiklós-Tass-Kiskunhalas-Kelebia railway line will be built with a net HUF 550 billion investment at a speed of 160 km/h. Within the framework of modernisation, the prominent part of the line becomes two-tracked. After the renovation, the journey between Hungary and Serbia will become significantly faster. The 374 km distance is currently taken by trains in 8 hours, and the driving time is expected to decrease to 3 hours after the railway has been renovated. The railway line is part of the trans-European core rail network, for which we have an EU development obligation by 2030, which we are fulfilling with the current investment. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear to us that Hungary has a visible interest in the renovation and development of the Budapest-Serbia railway line. We support this and support any legislative proposals aimed at achieving this as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-20-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I would like to use this opportunity in the debate to perhaps get some information from the Secretary of State that raised a lot of questions about the presentation in our group and raised several questions in the media. The first is that the congresswoman spoke of a much smaller amount, but if we add all the figures, then we are talking about an investment of almost 700 billion forints overall, with interest rates, part of itself, all of it. This is a large investment, which puts a very heavy burden on the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian taxpayers, and we do not yet see that this is an investment of scale, but even if we stay at a lower number, it does not come out what and when this investment is going to pay off. [[12.30]] Based on our calculations and the calculations of various experts, this will be an investment of the Hungarian government that will never recover. It is quite clear that this railway line is in the first place and almost exclusively in the interest of the Chinese partner, because, as Mr Secretary of State said, it is a perfectly clear Chinese economic and political interest to be able to transport Chinese products from the port of Pyreus to Europe. But I do not understand exactly, we do not understand exactly the benefits of this for Hungary, especially as there is still little news of the development of the Belgrade-Pireus line. So if we see that this is an investment of 700 billion, we can see that this is almost exclusively in the interest of the Chinese party, and we can see the secrecy surrounding this investment under the current interstate contract, then the question arises as to why this is in Hungary's interest, as it is proposed that this will be a railway line capable of speeds of 160 km/h. In freight trains, it's not usually 100 miles per hour - to say the requirement, much more the 120 kilometers per hour. While the Chinese party does not otherwise undertake to fill this line with cargo between Budapest-Belgrád, and if you look at personal traffic, according to expert and statistical data, it is about 70-80 people who travel on this railway. So in Hungarian, because he avoids Kecskemét and Szeged too, so the larger cities will be used by those who want to travel from Budapest to Belgrade or from Belgrade to Budapest. I don't think there's gonna be that many passengers changing tickets who can afford this ticket, by the way, the cost of this line is 700 billion. But if the Chinese side doesn't agree and we don't see what's going to happen between Belgrade-Pireus, then it's a little bit, to say the least, irresponsible, maybe that's the right way to put it, that the government is suddenly jumping into this and taking on this level of commitment right now. The other thing is that it was not clear that the MÁV, as I understand it, would be a 15 percent part of the company that complicates this whole thing. The proposal did not reveal to me what kind of permissions this 15 percent share would entail, because I understand that Hungary has to include its own share in this 15 percent order, but whether the MÁV has any right on the basis of this, which is veto or a say in management rights, or there is only 15 percent, so 85 percent of the Chinese party overall, and can actually decide on any important issue by 85 percent. So in Hungarian, according to our calculations, this is an investment that is not the Hungarian national interest, at least not the number one priority, it costs a great deal of money again, based on an intergovernmental contract. I do not understand exactly what kind of European Union project we are implementing on this basis, as the European Union has just disputed that a non-international tender actor is building this railway line, but is based on an interstate agreement. If I remember correctly, there may have been some kind of procedure against Hungary for this. I think that, once again, for Hungary, this is not the number one priority if we are talking about transport and the development of such international transport routes. And again, according to our calculations, this investment is never going to pay off, that's for sure. We also do not understand exactly why the government has encrypted the feasibility study for ten years, so why this information is not available. It is also strange that the government refuses to give substantial details about the amount of goods traffic they are expecting and, as I have just said, how long it would take to repay the investment. However, it is very difficult to make any responsible decision as a representative, because on the basis of the data we have available, once again, this investment will never be repaid. There is one more point that raises questions. This agreement states that workers from China, i.e. those who participate in this construction, are unlimited in number, and the Hungarian Government ensures that we give them all the residence permits and other permits quickly and smoothly to the Chinese main contractor. The question now is that we are talking about 50-500-5 thousand-50 thousand Chinese who will come to work in Hungary, or what is the government's idea of this. My fellow Member Fidesz says that 200,000 is an interesting number, and then we are talking about an even higher number, which means he knows the numbers more precisely. However, it would be interesting for us to know where Hungarian subcontractors will appear in this, so where are the Hungarian people who can work, participate as subcontractors, employees, or, where appropriate, they will only be able to catch the shovel and do Kubikos' work and hit the rails with a hammer. Therefore, it is worth clarifying how Chinese subcontractors fit into the large national economic building programme, where we will accommodate them, who will finance their accommodation, their presence here, and how these Chinese workers will fit into multiculturalism in Hungary in the areas where they will be accommodated. Just because we have been listening to these arguments from Fidesz MEPs not so long ago, that migrants cannot be allowed into Hungary because these issues and problems need to be dealt with by Hungarian workers, the Hungarian economy does not need foreign workers, especially foreign workers with no different cultural backgrounds. Now I read in the presentation that we only want to bring workers from different cultural backgrounds into Hungary, but not only to bring them in, but also to deal with administrative obstacles in the current apparatus, but also to break down these administrative barriers, and they can arrive in Hungary without any hesitation. What's the national security screening of these people gonna look like? How can we filter those who come to Hungary? What part of the agreement applies to the fact that, where the labour force in Hungary can carry out the same work, we do not allow third-country workers to enter, because we are not talking about the EU Member States, but about China. Once again, I have no problem with China, we have no problem with Chinese capital coming to Hungary. There is nothing wrong with Chinese companies wanting to operate in Hungary. But how, for example, is it arranged, Mr. Secretary, where do those who work here as subcontractors pay taxes? So Hungarian entrepreneur, Hungarian company pays taxes to Hungary, Hungarian employee pays taxes in Hungary, here spends its source. The same will be true of these Chinese employees, if any, or they will be foreign employees of a Chinese company in Hungary, and then, let's say, China will pay these taxes in the same way. That is why I am saying that there are many questions that certainly raise a lot of questions about this proposal. It seems a little like the government is jumping into the dark like this with a big head. There is no impact assessment to confirm, once again, the economic viability of the project. In our view, let me repeat, this money will never be repaid. Moreover, this source, this amount, is an incredibly large amount, and the Chinese provide this loan in the form of a loan for the project, so this loan must be repaid with interest. The fact that no one has been selected by tender, no entrepreneur in this regard is perhaps a concern, and it is also a concern that we do not see how the Hungarian economy will benefit from it, because probably the few hundred people who want to travel to Belgrade as a person, as a tourist, will not support this railway line. So we see, I don't know, how they used to say it, this is a lion-type contract, where everything is okay for one party, so I understand that for the Chinese party it is a completely good contract and beneficial for the project, I just don't see the national interest, I don't see the national economic interest, where it is implemented and where it appears in this proposal. [[12.40]] Therefore, since we do not see the emergence of national sovereignty in this project, we do not see the appearance of national economic interest, we do not see the presence and subcontractors of Hungarian workers in this project, so we certainly consider such a proposal by the national government to be wrong and shameful. Therefore, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support the presentation. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-20-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, What I will certainly not talk about for a long time is the EU infringement procedure for this project. Since Commissioner Günther Oettinger spoke or admitted to the German Commissioner, I would certainly not be able to talk about such a thing. This should be the problem of the EU Member States, and let us not take this burden or the shame of it on our own. The point is, however, that Hungary is afraid that, with this step, Hungary would put Chinese deep construction companies on the EU market, and the knees of some of the EU's role partners have certainly shuddered. Well, let's not talk about that. Let's talk about the project itself. About the fact that each such railway development is really important. Jobbik can fully agree with this, because let us think about the enormous social and economic impact that the railway has had since its heroic age. If we just look at the Hungarian example, I refer to the huge political, economic and social debates or the recovery of the first opened line between Pest and Vác in 1846, including the examples of dualism, then I must say that such a project, such a huge investment could be important for the country. By the way, we reject the chamadar and rural destruction mentality rooted in the 1970s when the wing lines were closed in Hungary with its mass. When, during the Gyurcsány-Kóka-éra, fate reached about half a hundred rural sidelines as a shameful form of rural destruction in Hungary, Jobbik raised its voice for this reason, and we strongly protested against it, and since then we do not understand why, if Fidesz opposed it then, they would not open the sidelines on the government that the Balliberals then closed nicely. We would also support such projects because we are encouraged by various EU objectives, and we can fully agree with them to switch to environmentally sound, energy-efficient and more sustainable modes of transport. So we're diverting domestic freight traffic from the road, say, to inland waterways or to fixed-track freight. We can fully agree with that. Then it should be added that Hungary's dependence on exports and imports is enormous. Our external exposure is enormous, and a country in such a situation must be a cardinal issue of transport, freight transport. Therefore, we could basically support any such development. In particular, because many more transport policy arguments could be put forward that would encourage us to do so. I mentioned the environmental reasons, sustainability, that we are also trying to protect and protect Hungarian people, the future generation. So it would all make us agree to these plans. However, as early as 2016, when we discussed the Fundamental Law, the XXIV. I said in the context of the law that Jobbik's faction cannot support this in this form, because we really consider this to be a project that is completely opaque and that it lacks economic rationality in its present form, even if, I must add, the issue of railway does not always have to be based on some kind of corporate economy calculations. We need to look at these issues in a broader context and in a broader context. If we look at the bilateral relations between Hungary and China, we have to say that there is a huge recovery in terms of the economy and trade, but we have to add immediately that the external trade balance for Hungary is in a very negative way. On the basis of the 2001 data, Hungary's exports to China amounted to HUF 32 billion. On the other hand, Hungary received almost HUF 400 billion of goods from China. How has that changed since then? By the end of 2015, the Hungarian export figures grew dynamically to around HUF 500 billion, whereas Chinese imports can be estimated at HUF 1500 billion. So there is a huge gap between the two of them of a thousand billion forints. The main question is that with such a step, which would otherwise be financed by credit, we would not be helping to make this our foreign trade balance, which is very detrimental to Hungary, deteriorates even further. So, I repeat, I am obliged to underline a thousand billion forints of our lack of external trade balance in relations with China. The China whose economy is raging, by the way. The population of 1 billion 400 million predesynthesized for this, but the annual growth of 8-10 percent, which has actually been observed for decades, and the fact that China now produces 15 percent of the world's GDP is in China's hands. This must all fill us with the fear that this terrible lack of trade balance will grow even further for Hungary if everything goes on, if everything goes on in this area. It is no coincidence that China wants to push this further, it wants to increase it further, because that is precisely their elemental interest. It was no accident that the countries of Eastern-Central Europe sat down in Bucharest in autumn 2013 discussing the practical implementation of a road concept, as a result of which we could discuss the bill on the renewal of the Budapest-Belgrád railway in 2016, and as a result of which we can also discuss the attachment today. By the way, we'd love to, say, the central state of the Silk Road, we'd love to be the mountain of the East. But he's not a sucker for the East. Because if we look at this treaty, this project, it will only benefit China in this form, and Hungary can only pay for it, especially with no specific calculation or economic foundation study in this regard, although my fellow Member Pócs, who now unfortunately went out, said that he had read something like this. His words are kept in Parliamentary records. He said he did, he met one of these. I don't know what kind. Not officially, because it's classified. Maybe he's thinking of some kind of flute study. But we would like to see the official implementation studies, impact assessments and economic calculations, because without this, the Jobbik faction cannot support this despite what has been said in the introduction. What is the situation in Hungary now? We have often talked about the fact that we have 7,700 kilometers of railway lines, of which over 3,400 kilometers have a constant speed limit because of the so - called slow signals. By the way, let us take off some 1,500 kilometers of the sidelines you consider untenable, but also take off the sidelines that are economically sustainable and important in Hungary and focus on the Hungarian backbone network, which can be integrated into the European core network of some 3,000 kilometers. [[12.50]] The need for reconstruction is about 3,000 billion. It's so big, I don't know when it's gonna be. And here is the very important question: if this MÁV has such a resource requirement, this railway network here in Hungary, how do you dare to spend such money on a section of less than 150 kilometers when there is simply no resources to renovate the rest? The Secretary of State has certainly met the so-called Railway Performance Index of the Boston Consulting Group, the so-called RPI, according to which Hungary has a total of 3 points out of the maximum 10 points available in the railway area. That's where we are now. Here we are now: a lack of resources, and you want to spend 700 billion forints on a 150-mile stretch of credit, which is not a chance to return, and which is actually three times the amount that you spend on the entire MÁV on an annual basis, including the 37-38 thousand railroads that work there. This is nonsense, absolutely unacceptable. In a situation where the railways, apart from some really commendable renovations, we can think of, let us say, suburban developments - although not all of them; if I just took out the Esztergom line again, there would be something to talk about, but let us really leave it here - so in a situation where in winter the frost and in summer the weeds hold the Hungarian railways together, 700 billion forints to put into such a project, it is a sin, a huge mistake Hungary cannot afford. I could describe the situation with a comparison where there is a collapsing putri, where the chimney has fallen, the roof is broken, there is no bathroom, and the owner, let's say, would be obsessed with laying marble sheets from credit to the hallway. That's where we're at with this. We've heard statistical numbers and all kinds of prognosis wrapped in pink mists about how traffic will rise on this line. Five thousand paying passengers are using this line every day at the present time, and Kelebia has a high average number of cross-border crossings per day for 360 people. Why such an unused HUF 700 billion is needed, and even if this is multiplied, it should be said that it is not used on the railway line, it is simply incomprehensible to us. Why should China's expansion be served in such a servitude and so much, in contrast to the interests of Hungary? 'Cause let me say this again: we didn't see the impact assessment. If you thought a little seriously that this railway line had to be implemented or renovated, created, it would have been the minimum, and the basically fair procedure would have been to publish this, or at least to be made known to those who have a decision-making competence in order to be able to do so, then we would have been even more courageous about whether or not we needed this railway renewal for Hungary. There'll be more to talk about. I'm running out of time, and I wouldn't go into the next round, because we have an alternative to this line renovation, by the way. I could quickly note here in parentheses why an alternative that prefers the Budapest-Kecskemét-Szeged-Szabadka line rather than the Budapest-Kecskemét-Szabadka line was not considered or suggested. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's right!]] There would be a much greater use of this line. Next, I will also mention what would happen with the line that is in fact in the background and the surrounding settlements, the people who live there, because obviously they couldn't be left on the side of the road either. But I find that, unlike you, Jobbik has a concept for this, and we will be very happy to share it with you. Thank you for your attention. [[Lajos Kepli applauds.]]
u2017-04-20-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Besides the Paks expansion, the reconstruction investment of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line will be very likely to be the worst, most profitable Hungarian investment of the century. This whole project has failed from the beginning and is tragically expensive, harmful to the country. The Budapest-Belgrád railway line does not serve Hungarian but Chinese interests. Yesterday, you accused civilians of serving foreign interests, but you are the ones who are doing this: with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, they are building an extremely expensive railway line to strengthen Chinese trade. The preparation of this project is without any prior professional surveys, research, reconciliation, economics calculations. In addition, this plan was created in the spirit of the program of the otherwise failed so-called Eastern opening. It must have been a good idea at first to build a good railway line for the Chinese, and in return, we will be the gateway to Chinese goods in the Union, with all its benefits. Only the realistic background plans were missing exactly what conditions and conditions this would be worth to Hungary. Orbán's intuition was enough, and the political will that was completely unfounded was enough. Then it turned out that the Chinese were not interested in our interests at all, but they were cruelly taking advantage of the government's burning up in the heat of the opening to the east. The Chinese are very smart - because they have found a good fool - to make us pay for the total cost of the giant investment, which, together with interest rates, could reach 700 billion forints, and even expect Chinese companies to build it and transport Chinese locomotives and cars on it. However, no guarantee shall be given for the quantity of delivery. The latter means that nothing ensures that the operation of the system will cover the current costs for Hungary, not to mention the return on investment. When the negotiations revealed that there was no guarantee, the Hungarian party should have stood up and turned back. However, he allowed himself to be framed, even though he should have stood up from the table at the latest at that moment. But such is the professionally unfounded decision, driven only by short-term policy and momentary interests - errors are much more difficult to correct. For our part, we don't believe that a business can only be good for one of the parties. There are mutually beneficial agreements, systems. However, this project is not like this. This therefore clearly serves only and only Chinese geostrategic interests. We know that Beijing desperately needs a greater reference work within the European Union, and that the New Silk Road project would allow them to enter Europe on this Balkan route. This is why infringement proceedings have been launched in Brussels against the project. The EU is also defending its market - quite rightly - against the state-supported Chinese dumping. If the Chinese plan were to succeed, Chinese companies would destroy the construction industry in Europe, which would seriously affect Hungary as well. That is why Hungarian behavior is incomprehensible. It's like we're hoping it'll be bad for everyone else, but we'll benefit from it. It just doesn't show how. Let's talk a little bit about costs and payback. The project is a tragedy from a purely financial point of view. The investment cost is approximately HUF 550 billion, which, together with interest rates, could amount to up to 700 billion. This is entirely paid by the Hungarian taxpayers, since the Chinese party only lends money. This way the line can cost 4.3 billion forints per kilometer, which is brutally high. We do not know the exact figures, of course, because the feasibility study has been encrypted for ten years, but it must be more than that amount. [[13.00]] Moreover, the loan will have a 20-year maturity, with a grace period of 5 years, and I would like to stress: market interest. It is calculated that the estimated delivery volumes, for which there is no guarantee, will be 2400 years for the return of the project. Astronomical costs are also estimated for the renewal of the railway line. In a flat area, we are talking about an almost fully straight, 160-mile section, with a specific cost of 2.84 billion per kilometer, which is more than the overpriced Sayol-Püspökladány line. This is also incomprehensible, because the construction has already been promised to the Chinese, so they can't even make the usual Fidesz levy, and we can only be subcontractors of the Chinese in this project. With this money, half the Hungarian railway could be renewed, including wing lines. However, the project is also technically questionable. It doesn't make sense why the line should be scaled to 160 kilometers due to freight transport. Freight trains don't run at 100 miles an hour. The speed of 160 km is required for EU investment, but we are not using EU money here, which could be because there is a significant source of funding for trans-European networks. On top of that, no environmental impact assessment was carried out, while the line also covers nature conservation areas. But we know that this government doesn't matter about our natural heritage, our common treasures, it's about power and money. Unfortunately, an intact natural area is not like this, they have no use for it, let it be destroyed! And what dilettantism in this project is this. While the government was so committed to the project, it also began to work to ensure that there was no return, not even in a favorable case. They have been working on it for a long time, but now they have promised 60 billion forints, also tax-paying money, to develop the port of the Slovenian Koper, which also wants to be the gateway to Chinese goods. Now, do we support all developments with Hungarian taxpayers' money, where Chinese goods show up? Because that's what we're seeing. In addition, the vast majority of Koperian goods do not even come through Hungary, so even in track access charges, transport or storage, the money does not come back in service. Therefore, LMP believes that Annex 2 to the Convention should not be published, but that the contract for the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line should be annulled. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-20-70	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The further speeches will now take place. I give the floor first from the MSZP Group to Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-20-71	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. It is not the first time the Belgrade-Budapest railway has appeared, or, from this point of view, the question of the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway in Chinese cooperation before the Hungarian Parliament. This railway line can be examined in several dimensions. On the one hand, there is the national dimension, which is a painful point after Trianon, that this peace dictate obliged Hungary to reduce the old Budapest-Belgrád railway line and pick up one of the rail parties. In this sense, it is also a kind of rehabilitation of the national feeling if the Budapest-Belgrád railway is rebuilt at the level of modern age. The other may be more serious. China, from wherever we look, is the engine of the world economy, and if China's investments are coming to Hungary, it is good for the Hungarian economy, for the Hungarian people - if it is done with the right conditions. Now we need to see whether these Chinese investments are coming to Hungary, how they benefit the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, and how they can be adapted to the construction of this cheap railway line, at all, how much this railway is needed in this context. At this age, rail developments are usually classified as never-refundable investments. They do so because they cannot be counted, all the factors that arise as positive or negative for such railway construction cannot be quantified. As a positive point, environmentally friendly transport, especially mass freight transport, and the comfort of personal transport, at this distance and at this speed, which is designed here, can be competitive with the aircraft. In particular, airports are usually located far away from city centres, so aircraft departure and arrival must be preceded by an approach to the airport or from there by reaching the city centre. While the railway, let us think here of the Nyugati Railway Station or Keleti Railway Station in Budapest, it is quite close to the inner parts of the city, from here it is easy to reach the goals in the centre of the city by metro or other fixed-track transport. So there is much to be said about the need for railway construction, but about this contract, which is before us, I am inevitably reminded of Géza Hofi's famous, otherwise technical saying: the ship captain yells at the engine room for how much; a voice shouts out that it is 30; and the captain asks indignantly what is 30? ; then the voice: why, how much? So we should clarify in this proposal how much we have. The same problem we had at the first round was that we do not know that there is a track defined here, and I agree with the previous solo, that there could be a much more favourable Kecskemét-Szeged-Nyvidék line in the Hungarian section, which would also affect the large cities between Budapest and Belgrade, essentially on a fast train, because in Hungary 160 kilometres would be a category of fast rail transport. So that's not well thought out. On the other hand, in addition to the 159.4 kilometers long track, on which trains up to 740 metres long can run, there is no economic calculation, a feasibility study, a feasibility study, nothing visible. We just don't understand why this is classified. The use of such an amount of taxpayers' money raises suspicion even of the best economic partner. It would be nice to see how much it will cost, to see a comparative study of the benefits of this railway track; what would be the benefit of the Budapest-Kecskemét-Szeged-Novi Sad line. So it would be nice to know a little bit more about what the Prime Minister here generously promised to meet Chinese leaders. This is followed by a specific return because we would think that Chinese railway builders work at a high level with highly advanced technology. This is probably the case, but let's see how the unit cost of this relates to the construction of a railway in Hungary. For example, there's the little railway on the road that was made for 800 million forints, I don't know how many kilometers. So there are comparative values in Hungary, which should be compared to whether this is good, average or expensive. I would very much ask the author to take these aspects seriously. [[13.10]] We do not say that this is an unimportant investment, it is a very important investment, but it is necessary to see more clearly than such money, for example, the conditions under which the Hungarian State receives this loan. So what we see is that the Chinese Exim Bank assures us that it is a big deal that a declaration of intent lies somewhere, but there should be a little more to it than that, that these interest rates are competitive or that other financing could be considered. Or the other: the cooperation agreement is usually concluded for such an investment, it is also at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, there is 40 percent Hungarian domestic delivery. Why didn't you discuss it here? Why didn't they plan the domestic turnout rate, the domestic delivery? Or if, after all, the Hungarian party pays for this incredibly large investment, then investment compensation also comes to mind. There was the Gripen acquisition, there was 120 percent investment compensation for the acquisition, which, of course, could be done without it, but if it is included in an international agreement, it must be recorded, monitored and reported to the Hungarian Parliament, for example. So I think that this proposal is far from knowing what a HUF 500 billion expenditure must show in information, preparation, care and careful treatment. The opposite of careful treatment is careless treatment, the opposite of faithful treatment is unfaithful treatment, so you should not wander into the area of unfaithful treatment in something of such importance. It would be much better to prevent this at this stage, and to demonstrate in a fair, transparent procedure why this is good, why it is important, and how it will benefit the Hungarian economy, to benefit the Hungarian people, to repay, to improve our lives. Thank you very much. [[Attila Mesterházy applauds.]]
u2017-04-20-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs has spoken again. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This silly construction, I must say, lacks two things: transparency and guarantees. It's opaque, as many of us here have said many times, and there are no guarantees. Secretary of State, have you seen, or have you seen, a written promise from China that states and assures us that the volume increase in goods traffic here will be so high that this investment will be repaid? Is there any guarantee that, let's say, the Chinese party will not think one the day after tomorrow, and will not then shift the main axis of trade, let's say, to Italy. Pireus will remain, but trade traffic will not reach the level that would be sufficient for a profitable project to emerge from this investment and Hungary will not pay for it. Can you say with all your heart that yes, there is such a written promise, and Hungary is nuclear-proofed? It's a huge amount of money. Many of us have said what this money would be enough for and what it would otherwise be necessary to achieve only in the field of MÁV. And then we could go someplace else to find out what this 700 billion HUF would be enough for in Hungary, why we should touch it more carefully. Why should we use this more carefully? The other: that's why there are many, many knife-opening examples. Let me remind you, for example, of the anomalies of the rail electricity between Zalaszentiván-Szombathely: 40 percent, hip-hop has increased this project. It's obviously a coincidence that R-Kord, the Cashier, also participated in this R-Kord type of Lawrence. Where is the guarantee that the HUF 550-600 or 700 billion investment will not be, say, HUF 1000 billion or HUF 1200 billion investment? And where is the guarantee that Hungary will not pay for all of this even more than can be predicted now? We can't see it. I suppose you have a fellow Member who has seen such an impact assessment, unfortunately we have not been shown these. Well, we're gonna need it. So don't let a foreign country get away with this, or as a sub-contractor, you've grown big and unsatisfying little balls! We can't agree to that. We can't accept it like this. And then the alternative: because what would happen to this line if this Corridor were transferred and the development was made elsewhere? Yes, we are very happy that someone else sees that if you have to take one of these steps, then there would be a better course for Budapest-Kecskemét-Szeged-Szabadka, and then you can join the Novi Sad track from there, so there would be a better alternative. What's gonna happen to this line that's been abandoned? Jobbik has a concept for this, and we can see exactly what difficulties South-Pest transport is facing, and we also add that there is a fantasy, let us say, that some kind of suburban development is being carried out then and to Kunszentmiklós. Based on traffic data and, let's say, previous positive examples, it could be said that this would be a realistic idea. The problem would be with the intermediate orbits, because the southern part, let's say, would be connected to this new Corridor through Baja or Kiskunhalas, Kiskunfélegyháza, so the southern part would then be given what is rightfully our concept. The residents of that country could also relax, so their right to access to Community transport would not suffer any damage. And then one last paragraph, going back to South Pest, you know it, and we know it, everyone knows what problems you have, say, Soroksar, Dunaharaszti, Pestszenterzsébet. From there, however, Soltig should be able to achieve a single-track electrified, renovated line concept, which, by the way, would also provide, say, the Danube New City on the other side of the Danube or Földvár with an alternative opportunity to get into Budapest. After all, we know that Budapest is difficult to penetrate, how time-consuming it is, let us say, to get from these settlements to these destinations. But with such an escape, it might be possible. So this would be the idea that could then be offered to the settlements and the people who live there, who, if they were to drop this otherwise fundamentally flawed idea, should be compensated with something. I am asking you, Secretary of State, to reconsider these, because I know that this request is a complete illusion, this desire for you, for some reason, you are very attached to this project, this 700 billion-dollar project. Even if we were to take a 15-percent domestic share, we would still be talking about serious tens of billions, which, where appropriate, on the political basis - because on what other basis - your selected subcontractors would be able to steal for themselves and put in their pockets an extra profit that we, on Jobbik's side, thank you very much, but we don't ask for it. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-20-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[13.20]]
u2017-04-20-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I see there's a weird-colored nebula in relation to certain fractions of this project. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] I'd like to clarify a few things about this project. This bill and debate is not about the project, but about supplementing the Convention No 2 - this is the first. The second is that there is not yet a decision on the project as to how much it will cost, who will implement it when and when it will be implemented - these are still corner numbers, and it should be seen that this project is currently being prepared. It has been said several times, although I do not know from what source that there is an infringement procedure in place in relation to the project. There is currently no infringement procedure for the establishment of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. That's the official position. I understand that the Members of this House must constantly raise the problem of this project, but there is no procedure. There is a pilot procedure in progress on this project, which is coming to an end, and this is about whether the procurement method, which Hungary has chosen together with the Chinese party, complies with the European Union directives and the relevant rules, is in line with the relevant EU directives, since Hungary is a member of the European Union, and from the feedback we have received so far, this type of legal arrangement appears to comply with the relevant EU directives. So the kind of hystericalism that surrounds this project is ringing the infringement procedure - there is no such thing. With regard to the protection of the European Union market, I would just like to note that it is necessary to see that the company Huawei, which I know is a Chinese company, is one of Deutsche Bahn's biggest suppliers in telecommunications. So I do not know why and who should protect the European Union markets in relation to Chinese companies when Chinese companies are already on the European Union market. I do not understand this suggestion, there is no factual basis. With regard to the implementation of the project, I would just like to note that a joint venture has been set up, which has a Hungarian joint decision-making system as the chairman of the board of directors of the joint venture, and that 19 Chinese and 41 Hungarian employees are planned to be employed by this joint venture, which is the main investor of this joint venture, so that hundreds or hundreds of thousands or hundreds of thousands of Chinese appearances in this project are expected to be dealt with by this joint venture again. These numbers are true. This joint venture will carry out this investment, and precisely on the basis of the procurement rules on which the amendment will now be voted by this House... [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Congressman, it's not about building, it's about the investment company. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's what I'm talking about! I was talking about building! The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll get there in the answer. Thank you very much. I listened to it, too. [[Attila Mesterházy: His obligation!]] This investment company will issue the international tender for which we are waiting for the final feedback from the European Commission. This will be an open tender in line with EU directives and legislation, which will offer tenders to companies that intend to build and implement this investment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the investor does not have building permits in relation to the investment, the acquisition of these, the acquisition of these building permits and the planning process will be the responsibility of the selected contractors in the contract resulting from the tender. So what technical content, how much and in what areas this line is going through is yet another question, as this will have to be planned by the winning entrepreneur. In the same way, when we talk about the return on this investment, it is obviously difficult to count and talk about rates of return that we do not yet know exactly how much it will cost. How much it will cost, and then the tenders submitted in the open international tender will decide. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Hungary does not yet have a valid financing contract. The international agreement states that only a more positive offer for financing can be made to the Chinese party from the present market situation and market conditions. This means that only lower interest rates can be offered to the Chinese party from the interest rates currently available to Hungary; these negotiations are still ongoing. With regard to how the tender will be and who will build this investment, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it will not result in a contractual obligation to conduct this tender. The answer is that, on the basis of the offers submitted in the international tender, the companies that are submitting this transparent and open offer will build it. With regard to the validity of the investment, I would just like to note that I believe that Hungary's role in freight transport must be strengthened in any way. One of the results of this was that the Ivyánút, a new international freight corridor, was opened at the beginning of the year with the help of Hungary, Poland, Slovenia and Slovakia. I think it is important not to hide the strong role played by Austria and the Austrian railways in our region, and obviously they want to open these freight corridors towards themselves, not to mention that in 2008 MÁV Cargo was privatised by the MSZP government, so in this respect too, I think that Hungarian freight and rail freight were greatly weakened. This is what the government is now trying to confirm in terms of the fact that when a port in Pyreus - this is a deep sea port - and the European bridge station of Chinese goods is established here in the region, I think that the historic and geopolitical opportunity to enter the European Union with the touch of Hungary, and not Austria or other countries, where appropriate. I think that this is, in any case, a very important interest in national strategy, which requires a future responsible vision of how we imagine Hungary's role both in terms of freight transport in the region and in terms of its economic activity. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say.
u2017-04-20-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications until closure. The government referral is T/15068. is available to all on the IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The future is digitalization. The Government of Hungary is committed to winning the digital transformation of domestic workers and businesses, thus making every Hungarian person a winner. To this end, one of our most important objectives is that by the end of 2018, all households or businesses will have access to the super-fast internet. Our goal is on the right track, Hungary is already among the best in mobile broadband technology. We have reached a milestone on mobile technology, as the regulation adopted last year at EU level will remove the extra roaming or more well-known roaming costs for people living in the European Union from 15 June 2017. This means that European subscribers will be able to e-mail, send a message, navigate, upload images or telephone in another Member State from mid-June without any extra costs, at the usual prices at home. Additional roaming charges may be charged to service providers only in exceptional and justified cases, only if authorised by the competent authority. The rules on this are extremely strict, specifying in detail the reasons for the additional charge, the criteria of criticism to be applied by the authorities and the maximum level of additional charge. These conditions are fixed at EU level, i.e. equally effective and equally applicable in all Member States of the Union. [[13.30]] As a result, no service providers in any EU country can benefit from more favourable national treatment, so Hungarian service providers cannot impose arbitrary surcharges on Hungarian consumers. All of this therefore protects the interests of Hungarian subscribers, their rights as consumers cannot be harmed, and they cannot be put at a more disadvantage than those of other Member States' subscribers. In order to effectively apply these strict rules, the determining authority must be designated in all Member States, including in Hungary, and the most basic rules of the procedure must be laid down. The primary objective of the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act before you is to lay down these technical details. Accordingly, the bill designates the National Media and Infocommunications Authority as acting authority and lays down basic technical procedural rules, including deadlines for the submission of the application and other procedural deadlines. In addition, the amendment serves to fine-tune the rules adopted in the framework of legal accessibility for broadband networks adopted last year. In addition, as an important step in digital child protection, the service provider is authorised to render child pornography recorded on the Internet in accordance with the list maintained by the International Criminal Police Organisation, Interpol. On the basis of the practical needs that have arisen in the meantime, the bill also helps to clarify and supplement the rules on the installation of communications works adopted in 2016 in connection with the legal accessibility of broadband networks and the implementation of the Super Fast Internet project. However, it does not contain any conceptual change. In the digital child protection section of the bill, it empowers communications providers to filter and block access to child pornography on the basis of a list published by Interpol. Filtering based on the Interpol list is not unknown in Hungary, some service providers have used this option before. However, EU legislation on Internet net neutrality will allow such voluntary screening in the future only if explicitly allowed by national legislation. At present, there is no such legislation, so providers are not allowed to voluntarily filter these harmful content. The bill before you, in line with what is stated in the Digital Child Protection Strategy adopted in the framework of the Digital Prosperity Programme, provides for voluntary screening for service providers. In order to implement filtering and blocking, service providers may conclude a separate agreement with Interpol, as well as technical assistance from the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in the screening process. Dear Parliament, Although the bill is largely technical in nature, it helps to achieve the government's objectives and to achieve digitalization on a number of points, and thus to achieve and complete the modern Hungary of the future. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/1506. Please accept the bill submitted to the Council. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-20-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government's submission is bill 15068. This bill amends the law on electronic communications on three issues, on three very important issues: the motion regulates the authorisation of an additional charge for retail roaming charges or roaming charges, clarifies the regulation relating to the super-fast internet project and gives the authority to render child pornography recorded on the list maintained by the International Criminal Police Organisation unavailable. Dear Parliament, Roaming charges have declined steadily and significantly in recent years. Currently, operators can charge up to 5 cents per minute for mobile phone calls, 2 cents per SMS and 5 cents per megabit for data traffic in the European Union as roaming charges. The European Parliament adopted a regulation on the single telecoms market in October 2015 on the basis of which roaming charges will virtually cease after 15 June 2017. The regulation on the abolition of roaming charges has direct effect, i.e. it has to be applied without a separate transposition into the domestic legal order, but in order to ensure its proper implementation, it must be consistent with the law on electronic communications. Ladies and gentlemen, By the end of 2018, all households will have the opportunity to use at least 30 megabit/secundum internet services as a result of large-scale network developments. In some 230 thousand homes, the super-fast internet is already available, and from nearly 60 billion forints the network development will start in all parts of the country this year. The proposal contains a clarification and complement to the rules on the placement of communications structures related to this programme, based on the practical experience gained. In recent years, new types of threats have emerged in connection with the Internet use of children, which require new solutions and, in some cases, a new system of public instruments; as Hungary's digital child protection strategy states, children are not only passive recipients but also actively communicating on the Internet, their awareness and awareness are more important than ever. In 2009, the member states of the General Assembly of Interpol unanimously voted in favour of a regulation restricting online sexual abuse of children and the dissemination of child pornography. The resolution called on the Member States to support blocking content on the list published by Interpol through the technical tools at their disposal. With the provision contained in the proposal, communications service providers are authorised to filter child pornography online content on the basis of a list published by Interpol. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill contains positive measures to implement the abolition of roaming charges, to facilitate the implementation of the Super Fast Internet programme and to reduce child pornography, so I ask you to respectfully support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-04-20-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-20-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is something discreet about this, that, while yesterday, for three and a half hours, during the debate of the Hungarian comment on the rules on the electricity market, the third sentence of Brussels is a necessitator of the investor of large capital, here we see that Brussels, who pushed down the roaming charge, has virtually abolished it, and it may be that it will be the Government of Hungary that allows the inspirations of the respected Telekom or T... - who have monopolized the letter T - to use an extra fee for a period of 12 months. So I would just like to call for the introduction in the professional approach not to be generalised in the first place, so Brussels is basically based on the trust of the citizens of the EU, the representatives of Brussels, the MEPs are elected by European citizens, so they represent their interests and always keep an eye on their task to be met by your representatives. It seems to me that this proposal bears witness to this. Thus, the fact that EU roamingarifa, the special charge for mobile use crossing EU countries, has been effectively eliminated in several stages in recent years has made a significant contribution to the gradual reduction in tariffs within the EU. A so-called Eurotariff was introduced for a transitional period from 30 April 2016, which was exactly quoted by my fellow Member Hadházy. [[13.40]] However, as of 15 June 2017, service providers must provide cross-border mobile phone services with a uniform tariff, which, I think, is very right, because if the European Union as an economic and social community is one of the fundamental principles of the free movement of a common market, products, people and services, if there is no internal border in the movement of people, then why would the internal border be in the movement of mobile telephone operators. So the unreasonably high, cross-border roaming charge so far is quite rightly being dismantled. At the same time, the EU Regulation also provides operators with a special opportunity to demonstrate that the single EU tariff does not cover the costs of running the roaming network, the national authority, in our home country NMHH, may grant permission for a period of 12 months to apply an additional charge. This is the part that we have seen in the balance sheets, on the one hand, that these mobile companies are fully in agreement with the rapporteur's introductory clause that the future belongs to digitalisation, but this was so recognised by these operators that they worked with EBITDA of around 40 per cent and profit on the pre-tax balance. Therefore, they have properly invested in this service, which is certainly justified in a development period to pool resources for further expansions, but when the infrastructure of this service was established, there is little reason to operate with such an incredible profit. This means the levy on consumers' wallets, which cannot be the objective of a responsible government or, in this case, the President of the NMHH. Therefore, it is important to look very carefully at the justified additional costs which might allow it to do so. So the power to authorise an extra charge within the EU roaming tariff is thus assigned to a single person by law, by giving the President of the NMHH, who has been appointed by the Prime Minister, a billion-dollar decision, a certain risk to professionalism and transparency. In addition, the proposal opens up the possibilities for decision-making to a wide extent, leaving virtually its personal conviction on which economic operators are sometimes provided with an extra profit or additional revenue of up to a hundred million, and from whom it withdraws this possibility. There is no substantive supervision, because there is no legal remedy. In our view, it violates a fundamental principle of law, because there is no such thing as a decision against which there is no second instance, so that it cannot be appealed, because redress is one of the most fundamental principles of law, so that there is an opportunity. The other thing that needs to be fully supported is the authorisation for NMHH to render child pornography-related electronic data on Interpol's list unavailable. Of course, we are fully in favour of this, and indeed we would note that Hungarian legislation may be a little late in this, and this could have been done earlier in view of international preparations. With regard to the Super Fast Internet project, we assume that this is not progressing as planned by the government by the end of 2018 as planned. So they're probably behind in terms of implementation. The proposal makes it possible to speed up the implementation and therefore serves this by all legal means. If the public area is affected by the work that is carried out in order to implement the. Super-fast internet project, the owner's contribution shall be deemed to be immediately granted in the case of public space. Railways and road operators have 45 days to agree on everything with the network operator; and if the execution involves several customers at the same time, they can be notified by means of a notice, which is considered to be published after 5 days. Not to mention the fact that the NMHH is given a very wide discretion to decide on the right of access, it may also determine the extent of the compensation for expropriation, which should normally be an agreed legal arrangement, the compensation which the parties concerned consider to be fair. This is one-sidedly decided by the head of the NMHH. In addition to the fact that the MSZP faction fully supports the super-fast internet project, some shadows have come up around the project, given that the deal between the government and Telekom, which also amounts to EUR 1 billion in euro, is suspiciously linked by the government to the sale of the Origo group, which is owned by Telekom for decades and is fairly impartial. It is certain that Telekom has sold the Origo group to Fidesz-near owners, and since then the Origo group has clearly become a pro-government organ, clearly criticizing the opposition, so the former impartial nature that Telekom could achieve under ownership has clearly been lost. So when I say that you are using the tools of political terror and tearing down the rule of law, whatever innocent blue eyes you are doing, that's a fact. So, when all communication surfaces are involved in their own sphere of influence, it is a violation of democracy, a fundamental human right to impartial information, and a violation of fundamental constitutional law. So this is what we see behind this is that Telekom has given in to a 300 billion-dollar business, and it is certain that since the purchase of one of the largest Hungarian news portal sales, the relationship between Fidesz and Telekom has been extremely good, and what seems to be not always said before. It is not impossible that Telekom will receive the additional fee for the roaming fee under point 1 soon enough, because it has done enough, giving in on the communication interface. So this proposal is not free from your absolutistic efforts to build power, which are reflected in it. There are technical, technical and service eligible elements, but in addition, they are not free from mean political intentions. [[13.50]] With regard to the super-fast Internet project, it would be noted that Telekom, which appoints itself as a highly respected T, in my residential area, Diósdliget, is not only super-fast, but it can barely provide the Internet service at all, but it does not help to keep the Internet service even for days, and it is necessary to call the service centre on a regular basis, which was hopeless before, but it does not help to keep the Internet service even. So on one side, hundreds of billions are driven to do a super-fast internet project, on the other hand, the minimum Internet service obligation in the Budapest agglomeration for collecting money from the consumer cannot be met. I would very much ask the service provider from the Parliament's hall to take its task seriously, take seriously its service contract, and do not wait for procedures that lead to the deterioration of its authority, to comply everywhere with what it has undertaken and to ensure a smooth Internet service, and not only when it has taken the hundreds of billions off the government for the super-fast internet project, but now when it is taking from us not a small amount of ten thousand forints for a service that is not worth half as much, because it uses the fact that other Internet service providers do not have cable there, or if they already have UPC cable, it would be internal conversion costs if you wanted to switch from one service provider to another. In the name of the great T, I ask Telekom to have a decent service attitude, to do what the letter T obliges, to be bound by integrity, to be bound by respect, and to have the third T to do what Telekom does not only offer it, but also to fulfill it. In this context, we will consider what we can support from this proposal on the basis of which point. There are eligible targets, but there are also shadows for certain processes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-20-82	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-20-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us to amend Law C of 2003 on electronic communications consists essentially of three pillars. The first pillar of this proposal is the roaming regulation, i.e. the abolition of the roaming system, the roaming system, which is one of the EU's fundamental objectives relating to the Digital Agenda for Europe, the reduction of the differences between domestic and roaming retail charges in the context of the creation of the single digital market. The special charge for roaming mobile use crossing national borders in the EU will be phased out, and the main rule is that roaming providers should not charge any additional charges for regulated roaming services in addition to the domestic retail charge as of 15 June 2017. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs, Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt.]] At the same time, this legislation provides for the possibility of exceptions in a narrow way. In particular specific and exceptional circumstances, where the total expected cost of providing regulated roaming services is not reimbursed to a roaming provider, the provider in question may request permission from the national regulatory authority of the Member State, in this case NMHH, to apply an additional charge in addition to the domestic tariff. As a matter of fact, the rules for granting this authorisation are installed by the law - they are the regulatory authority in Hungary - to the President of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, and the President of the NMHH will conduct this procedure on the basis of the rules of the Roaming Regulation, and on this basis he may decide who is entitled to apply such an additional charge. This could, of course, have a market distorting effect if it is not properly applied if the President of the Media Authority abuses this right, but it was also a reasonable step at regulation level to place this power on the President of the Communications Authority. But as with any decision being put to the head of an authority, in the case of inadequate regulation, there is, of course, the possibility of abuse. So much for the roaming regulation, the roaming regulation. Of course, a positive step, a positive process is the fact that roaming charges cannot be charged for calls and data traffic within the European Union from June 2017 onwards. The second pillar relates to the so-called super-fast internet from the triple pillar of this package of proposals, which regulates the cooperation of the public domain owner, the network operator and the building owner, and is intended to provide a greater guarantee of the placement of communications works on foreign real estate, as well as the right to the pipeline without the registration of real estate. The real estate registration is obviously only appropriate after the investment has been completed, as the trail may change. The provision is positive, since Jobbik Hungary has been pushing for the Internet to reach as many settlements as possible, and network operators should be supported by all means, so that the network can be built in as many places as possible and as many people can access the benefits of broadband internet in settlements where fewer people would use it. If this were not necessarily profitable on a business basis, it would also have to be supported to build the infrastructure and to access the Internet to the less developed regions, smaller settlements. In addition, it would, of course, also be necessary to encourage conscious Internet use and to support programmes by the State that will help to spread it. Conscious Internet use is also linked to the third pillar, which aims, of course, to reduce child pornography online content that is fully eligible. On Jobbik's part, we have already spoken in the past on the issue of extremely harmful child pornography and violent content on the Internet. Here, making child pornography websites on the list drawn up by Interpol inaccessible is a significant step forward by allowing electronic communications providers providing access, as well as search and speeding distance providers, to legally render the content on the list inaccessible. Of course, it is also possible that providers do not accept network advertisements for content from the technical assistance system. The content of the pages on the list is without exception based on criminal law, and it is therefore possible, under the legislation currently in force, to order inaccessible access, in accordance with the law on criminal proceedings which otherwise apply and under the Criminal Code. So it is definitely an extremely important step, another step in a series of steps aimed at fully suppressing child pornography content on the Internet. Of course, there can be no question that Jobbik will also provide support in this. We also consider the other two pillars to be such a positive initiative - both in terms of the abolition of the roaming system initiated by the European Union and in terms of the spread of the super-fast internet - that we see no reason not to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.00]]
u2017-04-20-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Zsolt Szabó:]] He doesn't want to. I would like to inform the House that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have CXVII of 2010 on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/15067. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, your time frame is 30 minutes. You have the floor, please.
u2017-04-20-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The amendments to this bill concern the law on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport. It is important to stress that the current amendment becomes necessary on the basis of the adoption of a directive that entered into force at the end of 2015. The bill before you is the result of the mandatory harmonisation work, which I would like to present below. On 5 October 2015, the so-called ILUC Directive, adopted by the European Union to address the phenomenon of indirect land use change in the use of biofuels, entered into force. This is modified by 2009/28. a European directive, which also means the Renewable Energy Directive. Member States, including Hungary, have until 10 September 2017 to comply with the mandatory legal harmonisation laid down in the Directive. Among other things, the Directive regulates the calculation methodology for achieving a 10% transport share by 2020, tightens the sustainability requirements for biofuels, maximises the eligibility of so-called conventional biofuels, food and feed biofuels for Member States' purposes, and also broadens the reporting requirements for certain biofuels in the Member States. In Hungary, the 2010 CXVII. The Act provides for a framework for the reduction of transport and greenhouse gas emissions from renewable energy, so that the most important task of this amendment is to be able to transpose the versions and changes of the Directive in this amendment. The text of the current legislative amendment is the result of more than a year's legislative harmonisation work involving the relevant regulators and industry. At the same time, the legislative harmonisation process allowed for fine-tuning of the provisions covered by the law on the basis of feedback from law enforcement. The amendment took into account the changes caused by the excise duty law which will enter into force from 1 July 2017. In the current bill, we have also laid down a number of new definitions as defined by the directive. On the basis of the proposals of the National Tax and Customs Office, the 2016 LXVIII on excise duty in the course of preliminary consultations in the course of the legislative amendment. The changes of a technological and technical nature to the Law of Büat are carried out in the context of this amendment. Such a change is, for example, the introduction of a combined nomenclature, the CN code, which replaces the headings and uses them uniformly in the European Union. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you that T/15067 on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport. Please discuss and support bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-20-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-20-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On Tuesday, we reported to my fellow Members in the framework of the IPU Assembly that in February this year we were hosts of a regional conference focusing on climate change and its prism on water, the importance of water management. In the meantime, we have also presented to my fellow Members the Hungarian IPU publication, which contains an action plan to combat climate change, in order to keep the global average temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius compared to the pre-industrial period. We want to achieve this by achieving sustainable development goals, which give the same importance to the environmental, social and economic dimensions. Why am I bringing this up now, what's in it for you? Because the proposal before us is also an element of the complex set of actions that we want to achieve our goal, the viable planet and sustainability. However, since these are complex phenomena and complex systems, a number of aspects must be taken into account. It is important to strike a balance and even optimise the results and impact of efforts. This proposal, which lies before us, also seeks to do so in the service of renewable energies, the use of biofuels and the harmony of land use. As Mr Secretary of State has said in his exposé, the proposal on our table concerns a mandatory harmonisation of EU law. The so-called ILUC Directive entered into force on 5 October 2015 and the Member States, including Hungary, have until 10 September 2017 to carry out mandatory legal harmonisation. The present bill 1. § 2 of the Renewable Energy Directive 2009/28/EC amends and expands the basic concepts used. For example, it introduces the concepts of low-risk biofuels and bioliquids for indirect change in waste, starch-rich plants, land use, or, for example, amends the concept of biofuels in the law. Article 2 § 2 requires that the share of energy produced from renewable energy sources in all forms of transport in the territory of Hungary shall be at least 10% of the final energy consumption used for transport purposes, which shall be achieved in 2020. The calculation of the share as a Member State target will then be determined by the legislation issued for implementation. 3rd and 4th. § 1 defines the sustainability requirements for bioliquids, biofuels and intermediate products. Article 5 Paragraph 1 lays down requirements for monitoring the origin of liquid bio-energy and biofuels and intermediate products and their raw materials. Article 6 § 2 refers to the requirements for notification, registration, reporting. It thus determines that the fuel distributor is required to submit to the State tax and customs office a report on motor gasoline, diesel gas oil and biofuel placed on the market in the reference year by 20 March of the year following that in which the relevant legislation is implemented. In addition, the proposal will address the necessary mandate and tasks of the government and minister. Ladies and gentlemen, After some thought has been given to what the purpose of the proposal is, allow me to address with a few sentences the challenges that these amendments are responding to, the reasons why this directive should be drawn up. [[14.10]] The Renewable Energy Directive 2009/28/EC requires Member States to ensure that the share of energy from renewable sources used in all forms of transport in 2020 is at least 10% of the final consumption of energy for transport in that Member State. One of the most significant means of achieving this target for Member States is the production of fuel mixtures containing biofuels. At the same time, the EC Renewable Energy Directive stresses that it is particularly important to achieve energy efficiency in the transport sector, all the more so as the mandatory percentage target for energy from renewable sources will be increasingly difficult to achieve in a sustainable manner if the overall energy demand for transport continues to increase. Therefore, given the important role of energy efficiency in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Member States and the Commission should be encouraged to make their relevant mandatory reports more detailed. Similarly, the Directive lays down sustainability criteria for biofuels and bioliquids. Among other things, the criteria set out the minimum greenhouse gas savings to be achieved by using biofuels and bioliquids compared to fossil fuels. Indirect land use change is an important issue. Where a pasture or agricultural area previously used for the production of food and fodder crops is converted to biofuel production, demand for non-fuel should be met either by increasing the intensity of current production or by putting other land under cultivation. The latter case involves indirect land use change, which could lead to significant greenhouse gas emissions in the event of a large amount of coal-stocked land conversion. The Directive is accompanied by provisions governing the impact of indirect land use change. This is because biofuels today produce these fuels primarily from existing agricultural land crops. Ladies and gentlemen, Several forecasts suggest that greenhouse gas emissions from indirect land use change are significant and can partially or even totally neutralise greenhouse gas emissions savings achieved through the use of individual biofuels. This is because biofuels are expected to be produced by 2020 from land crops that could serve food and feed markets. In accordance with the Directive and the Directive, this proposal differentiates between oil crops, sugar crops and cereals and other starch-rich plants for the purpose of reducing emissions of this kind. Furthermore, research and development of new and advanced biofuels which do not compete with food crops should be encouraged and the impact of each crop group on direct and indirect land use change should be further studied. The use of advanced biofuels, such as waste or algae, can save significant greenhouse gas emissions as they have a low risk of indirect land use change and do not directly compete for agricultural areas for the production of food and feed crops. The Directive requires Member States to report to the Commission, at the time the national target is set, on the level of advanced biofuels in their territory and to publish a summary report on the progress made in meeting these national targets for 2020, in order to assess the effectiveness of the measures introduced by the Renewable Energy Directive in reducing the risk of indirect land use change through the production of advanced biofuels. The Directive underlines the importance of switching to electric transport in the period 2020-2030. In this area, the Hungarian government has already taken important steps, which are detailed in the Jedlik Ányos plan. The Directive draws attention to the importance of the waste hierarchy. In general, the waste hierarchy sets priorities among the more important options for the environment in the field of waste legislation and policies. Compliance with the principle of waste hierarchy is particularly important in indirect land use change, in incentive measures to promote low-risk biofuels. The important point of the Directive is to limit the quantities of biofuels and liquid bio-energy produced from cereals and other starch-rich crops, sugar and oil crops, as well as plants grown primarily as main crops for energy extraction in agricultural areas. After all, the share to be achieved is simply not reasonable, as we are taking away the opportunity from food production and achieving emission reductions less. Member States and the Commission should encourage the development and application of schemes to reliably demonstrate that a given amount of biofuel material produced under a project has not removed cultivation for other purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill before you, which is another step towards sustainability, encouraging the creation of cleaner and more energy efficient transport, taking into account the importance of the balance between fuel production and agri-food production. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-20-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-20-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The purpose of the bill is essentially to comply with the legal harmonisation obligation set by the government. In our opinion, that's exactly what doesn't hold up a bit at the moment. The Act sets out the extent to which the government proposes to increase the use of liquid biofuels and renewable fuels for transport, but its implementation will be defined in regulations. In our opinion, the basis for the amendment is that the law will only contain the framework, the definition of all the essential requirements will be placed at the level of regulation, so that no more of these questions will be put before Parliament, but they will be decided by regulation somewhere, and we will not be able to discuss them any more from now on. For example, the regulation of how to calculate the share of renewable energy in the use of transport energy goes from the law to the level of regulation. This does not contribute to predictable and predictable regulatory conditions, to the investments needed to meet the requirements and to the timely fulfilment of Union requirements. The bill is poorly prepared from a codification point of view. For example, the law applies to 2/A. §2 of the Act provides for the obligation of the Minister responsible for energy policy to provide information via the website, whereas the bill essentially provides for the same provision in the new Act No 11/B. It intends to lay down the provisions in force without repealing them. It is clear that there is a conflicted work ahead of us now, which, in principle, will not cause harmonisation, but even more chaos than it has been before. Therefore, given that it does not meet the harmonisation requirements, but in the opposite way, this will cause problems, and since it intends to further define the topics and areas on a number of points by regulation, the MSZP will not support them, since we do not believe that they should be regulated by regulation, and we do not believe that if something is complicated and unthought-out, it will help this issue in the future. Thank you very much. [[14.20]]
u2017-04-20-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik has always been half-sceptical about biofuels, precisely because of what has already been said here by my fellow Member, Mr Mónika Bartos, and also in the national exposé by the Secretary of State. When crops for the production of so-called primary biofuels are grown on land suitable for food production - when it comes to bioethanol, maize, in particular, when it comes to biodiesel, is rape, but of course other plants too - this will take the land away from food production, and in this case it is not eligible for us. Of course, there is a lot of debate about whether this serves sustainability objectives or not. This balancing effect, which results from not burning fossil fuels, but directly producing fuel from plants grown for this purpose, which is enough in these engines, is only valid if the production of biofuels does not involve additional emissions from land use change. We also see that, as time goes by and the world's population grows, the land is becoming increasingly valuable for food production, and therefore there is less and less room for any other production or cultivation on land suitable for food production, as more than seven billion people should be provided with healthy food, and there are already problems with that. We also have a very large quantity of agricultural land and good quality, but here we should focus primarily on food production. What has the right to exist, let us say, for biofuels, in which we see the possibility, is actually the production of liquid or gaseous fuels produced from biodegradable, agricultural or forestry or fisheries, primarily from waste and non-products, residual materials or biodegradable industrial and household waste. This definition is derived from the directive, but here it is meant to be the production of products or waste, and what we consider to be eligible is primarily the use of waste and residual materials for this purpose, not the production of direct, first generation biofuels. Another question is how to make transport much more efficient, cleaner and sustainable by preventing greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, biofuels are not only suitable for this, but also for electrification and electricisation of transport, which plays a role, especially in urban transport, in air quality, but also in reducing greenhouse gas emissions if the electricity we use for transport is produced on renewables and not, let us say, in fossil power plants. Of course, in addition to renewables, nuclear energy can now be listed in this respect, since the production of electricity produced by nuclear energy does not involve significant greenhouse gas emissions. So we should go in this direction instead, and I know that the government has ideas on how to promote and disseminate electricity. Where biofuels could be of relevance: in agriculture, indeed, for the propulsion of motor vehicles, machinery, etc., especially in economic processes where locally produced crops, mainly for food or other agricultural purposes, and in economic terms, other residues and waste generated locally in agriculture are used for the production of biofuels, which also uses biofuels locally for industrial or transport purposes. So the idea that Jobbik could support is definitely about the production of first-generation biofuels as part of a closed round process, not as part of a large industrial, large-scale, first-generation biofuels. It is clear that, in the European Union, not only sustainability aspects dominate, but also business and economic aspects in the regulation of biofuels, so no matter how well we are guided by goodwill, and as much sustainability as we consider to be eligible, we always have doubts about such regulations that the European Union will make in this respect, even if we know that Hungary must adopt these directives, transpose them into its own legislation and harmonise them. Nevertheless, we have doubts as to whether this is truly a long-term measure of sustainability, and if we look at these biofuels and these land in a life-cycle way where they are produced, I would say that we should look for a solution elsewhere. Of course, this is one of the solutions, but it is not the best, so in light of this, we will decide to support this proposal later. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-20-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Member István Józsa of the MSZP Group asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to the attention of those present that we have here the achievement of a noble goal of mutt, because this is the noblest goal of protecting our environment, protecting the climate, promoting the use of renewable energy for transport purposes, I believe that there is little to say. But this mutt implementation that lies in front of us, I must say, is a shame. So when every investment, bigger investment, every change is about having a predictable, predictable regulatory path available, so that investors know what to do, then the legislator doesn't take the trouble to legislate on what to stick to, but says that I'm just setting the limits here, and then everything that will be meaty, financially interesting to you will be determined by the executive decrees. I'll tell everyone here that the executive decrees don't trust people, they think that this is exactly what the government, the Ministry, is all about, in which they write this one week, and then six months later they realize that something else would be better for someone, and then they write something else. So that's not the legal certainty you're presenting here. In particular, it is painful that such a long-term important environmental objective, climate protection goal, is such a despicable thing, that they do not allow for a predictable investment environment, but do something to check the implementation of European directives, while at the same time encouraging and helping investment, those actual corner numbers are not included in the law. That's mean, that's betrayal of the case. I very much ask you not to do this, but to regulate the framework for the use of renewable energy for transport in a legislative and favourable way. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-20-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Zsolt Szabó:]] Yes, he wants to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor. [[14.30]]
u2017-04-20-95	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to thank my fellow Members for having looked at this legislative proposal so widely and in many respects over the last few minutes. What's perhaps most interesting, we've heard pros and cons, we've heard that it's too much, and we've heard that it's too little. I would like to highlight four basic parameters. One is that by 2020, a 10% transport share is set, and the method of calculation is regulated. Secondly, the sustainability requirements for biofuels have been strengthened by this Directive. The third is to strengthen the protection system for feed and food materials. And the fourth is that it expands the Member States' reporting obligation for certain biofuels, so we are monitoring precisely these types of biofuels. It is very important that all such arguments may be replaced, that feed and food safety and food production are the most important factors. The economic interest above this, which is in the interests of the country's economy, the budget and GDP itself, is the next element that regulates. Thus, the economy is not first, but only second. The year in which regulations and how we regulate this issue, obviously the law forms a framework, and the economic changes within it make the demands that we want to regulate. I believe that this legislation, this law, provides the right framework for carrying out the tasks, we can comply with the common policy on this subject of the European Union, we are fulfilling the economic interests of the country, and we are ensuring the safety of production for Hungarian farmers. They also indicated this in connection with the opinion of the law. I think we are creating an opportunity to reach a 10% share by 2020. I would ask my fellow Members to support the legislative proposal in the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-20-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments on Friday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. Coming up now is the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/15057. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda; the timeframe is 30 minutes. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-04-20-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us contains amendments to reduce red tape and clarify for consumer protection purposes. The task is to create ex ante conditions in the field of water utilities and to facilitate the security of this public service. The amendments allow the sustainability of the government's debt reduction policy to persist in the long term and help the sector to function and ensure that it is maintained. In the case of water utility investments, it is noted that the mandatory maintenance period for proposals is much shorter than the expected useful life, and that this condition represents a more favourable price for long periods of maintenance and, given that sustainability is adequate, it requires the inclusion of materials of a longer lifetime and of sufficient quality. However, long-lived solutions are still cheaper overall, as the total expenditure per year will be the lowest, and this is why we need to amend this legislation by regulation. The bill provides funding to ensure the renovation and reconstruction resources of water utility systems, which is also in line with the government's procedure for reducing electricity. The involvement of water utility providers in investments and developments in professional decisions is also a guarantee in which it can ensure that the principles of water utility services are met. With the amendment of the law, the professionalism of water utility providers in relation to investment in water utilities, the technical content of their planned reconstruction, renovation and replacement works means, in particular, the resolution they must ensure. The minimum cost principle applies, so that the planning and implementation of the development of the water utility system will give priority to operating solutions where the minimum cost can be used to provide the longest duration. The bill provides for a new element of the so-called water utility fund, which is a set of so-called development funding funds established under the voluntary agreement between the service provider and the care provider. In particular, it is about the registration of user charges and also about the funds provided in the separate account to be used or used. In addition, the proposal pays particular attention to the fulfilment of consumer protection principles, specifically reducing the burden on the users to be protected by helping the most deprived by obtaining the category of protected or protected status in the longer term by less bureaucratic procedures. Accordingly, by 31 March of each year, you will be required to account only once, and if there is a long-term protection status, this will not be necessary again, as it will continue to exist. The amendment removes multiple certification obligations and thus reduces burdens for more vulnerable consumers in a more vulnerable situation. It also protects the interests of all users by allowing the scope of subscriber meters to be extended by allowing applications to be available for contracts concluded before the amendment. The bill is in line with the government's new home creation programme, one of which is the simplification of construction rules, thus facilitating access to new homes for Hungarian families and encouraging the construction of new housing properties. Non-resident users shall pay the water utility development contribution to the service provider in accordance with the contract with the water utility provider if the new connection serves the water utility service in the case of newly built dwellings not built for resale by a non-resident user. In addition, the water utility systems involved in the investment previously covered by an operating contract do not lose renovation cover due to changes in the contract title. The bill also ensures compliance with EU rules, since the security of network and information systems is also ensured throughout the EU through a uniform high level of action and the transposition of certain elements of the Parliament and Council Directives. We will simplify the statutory tasks of water utility providers and their inclusion in the electronic information system of public and municipal bodies by means of the legislative amendment. The legislation on water utility providers does not lay down detailed rules, the amendment is intended to clarify existing regulations. Dear Parliament, The law before you contains legislative and technical amendments to the water utility sector. Please make the T/15057. Please discuss a legislative amendment proposal and support it during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[14.40]]
u2017-04-20-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-04-20-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill, because it supports one of our most important objectives, the retail reduction. The aim of the bill is to maintain the policy of reducing costs in parallel with maintaining the functioning of the water utility sector. Our aim is also to contribute to the safe, quality and continuous service of domestic water utilities. The legal proposal defines the term "water utility fund," the powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office are extended by examining the data provided to the e-közmű system, as well as changes to water utility investments. In addition, the bill also complies with a legal harmonisation obligation: it amends the provisions on consumers to be protected and clarifies that the obligation to connect the property to the network is an ex officio procedure initiated by the district office. The bill is the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. It includes, in several cases, more precise amendments to the law enforcement experience of the past period and to ensure the possibility of funding for the renewal and reconstruction of water utility systems for the purpose of reducing red tape and reducing red tape, as well as for the purpose of consumer protection, in order to comply with the law of the European Union. The purpose and necessity of the amendment contained in the bill in the water utility area are as follows. It has become necessary to take measures to ensure a uniform high level of security for network and information systems throughout the Union. Directive No 14 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transposition of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 14 of the Act on the provision of water utilities. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, when examining the customer service activities of certain water utility providers, found that in some cases users to be protected are unduly bound by the law to prove the existence of multiple protections. It was therefore necessary to minimise the obligation to verify the users to be protected. The involvement of water utility providers in professional decisions in investments and developments has become necessary in order to ensure that the water utility works carried out are compatible with existing water utilities without problems, thus ensuring full compliance with the principles of the water utility service. On the basis of the bill, the fee for use which can be used exclusively for the development of water utilities shall be managed separately by the service provider or by the water utility provider on the basis of an agreement. The fund established by the persons responsible for the supply and by a separate agreement between the service providers shall be managed by the service provider or by the municipality selected from among those responsible for the supply. The purpose of the dedicated common fund is to manage the renovation and reconstruction resources of utility systems within the service area in a more uniform and more predictable manner for the entire service area operated by a water utility provider. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to point out that this bill does not create any additional burden for users, i.e. it does not represent an increase in fees for the provision of water utilities, so the bill is in line with the government's reduction objectives and achievements so far. On this basis, the Fidesz Group supports and proposes to this House that the bill be adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-20-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mrs Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-20-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In the general explanation, you can see the two sentences, which are like the folktale turn, the, I brought, and I didn't. The bill allows for the functioning of the water utility sector while maintaining the government's policy of reducing emissions. At this point, water utility companies would have been very pleased, and since in most cases they are municipal owned companies, the municipalities would have been very pleased to finally get to the point where they will be able to operate. Only when they begin to read the amendment of the law, they realize that it is only the maintenance of the policy of reducing the rent that remains true from the justification, the other half is not true, which, on the other hand, we know is like the turn of folk tales, I brought it, and I didn't. If we look deeper into the amendment of the bill, then 12. It says a lot of things. In the case of apartments constructed by a non-residential user intended for resale, the provision contains an amendment stating that the builder is not obliged to pay a water utility development contribution in this case. In addition, a small package of money will be taken out of the water utility sector and from the pockets of water utility companies, which, as I said, are, in most cases, municipal owned companies. From now on, who invests in housing sales as non-residential users and who build apartments that are intended for resale, they will not have to pay either. Well, that's wonderful. This probably involves another sector, another circle of friends, in case Lőrinc Mészáros and his friends or any similar company near Fidesz want to build apartments and then don't have to pay for this money. If this were to appear in housing prices, we would even understand that this is also for the pleasure of the population, but it will probably be swallowed up in the same way that this happens in every case. And then let's look at the biggest problems. The use or rent has been paid by the water utility companies to the municipalities, and the municipalities have had to spend it on improvements and reconstructions. But these water utility companies are so bled these days that there is a place where they can pay a rent of HUF per cubic meter, they wouldn't be able to pay any more, because then they wouldn't actually be able to pay the rent. From here on out, these companies are on full bledout. I understand that the most important - and we really think it is very, very important - is not to increase the burden of the population, because they can no longer bear these burdens, but also to deal with security of supply. And if you look at the fact that most water utility companies currently have 25 percent per year of employee exchange, fluctuations, and people who work there, because water utility companies can't afford the professionals working there properly, then there really is a question of security of supply: where will they be able to hire workers for such a salary? And the very big question is, if the government has announced a 30 percent wage increase in the public sector in three years, then how are municipal-owned companies different? 'Cause in this case, I don't think you can tell the difference between the two. If there has been a 30 percent wage increase in the three years, I think that people working in municipal-owned companies are entitled to the same thing. And the big question is that if the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. ensure these conditions, then will the Ministry of Interior provide these local government-owned companies, because the municipalities themselves are not in a position to offer wage increases to employees at the moment. But there'll be no one left to work in it. I understand that today we have discussed a law where you will now issue the installation of the drinking water network to companies operating on a market basis, and then the authority will examine whether they are fit for it, and then, of course, you will not need so many plumbers for water utilities. [[14.50]] It's just that it's taking away another sector, killing another sector, bleeding out and handing over buddies. We also have something to talk about on the e-Utility network, because they are always very happy to refer to the fact that the entire system is already here, where you will be able to look at the connections in which apartments and the diameter of the pipe that goes in there or what canal network there is. Only when water utility companies are so bled out, in the vast majority of cases this could not be done normally. Because it's not cheap to digitize these systems. And when there's an outside company, an outside plumber, who's gonna get the authority clearance, and then he's gonna look at this network, and he's gonna go into this e- utility network, where digitized data is supposed to be up, right, and he's gonna be able to see what kind of connection is there. But how deep it is, how exactly and where it should be mounted, you won't be able to, because it doesn't contain it at this depth, because the companies weren't able to make it. If you are very honest and look at yourself, you know that this is a very, very serious lag, and this system is not okay, because this sector is bleeding out, too. I understand that local government-owned companies are being dealt with as foster children at the moment, but I do not think that it is fair to their own mayors and their own population. That is why I think that this proposal should be more thought-out, not just about buddies, but also about the population, not only how they can maintain their political achievements, which is such that I didn't, because a large part of the population still doesn't really feel this reduction because they're trying to use as little as possible because they can't even pay their checks. And if you can't pay the check, then this 200 forints isn't as big for you as the thousands of wealthy people who fill their pools with the water that the other person uses just the last drop of drinking water so that they don't have to pay too much. I therefore believe that this proposal cannot be supported. We should rethink this whole sector and rethink the entire bill. Thank you. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-04-20-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, notary.
u2017-04-20-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Most importantly, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether everything in the Government's legislative plan is surely harmonised, because there has already been a five-party agreement with the Ministry of Interior on this law, also in relation to the Water Services Act and the Water Management Act that is closely linked to it, as part of a larger package of laws. This was before us, and we also discussed it, and we discussed it at the Ministry of Interior, so I do not really understand that you are bringing another slice of the same law or part of it back to the House from a completely different point of view, which has been examined and clarified and corrected and rewritten. I do not think that this could be a model of single legislation, this is the case that we have now. On the other hand, it is very much technical clarification. But unfortunately, I have to say, in agreement with the solo before me, there is more to it than just this kind of clarification. There are three points that I would like to bring to this House in more detail, and I would like an answer from the Secretary of State. One point is 1. It is linked to §2 in which it is stated that tenders, which are typically European Union proposals, tenders made from KEOP, have a mandatory maintenance period much shorter than the expected useful life, where appropriate in the case of different infrastructure networks, and that it would be appropriate to make this a little more realistic; therefore, to adapt the legislation to the expected useful life span, to the real, expected lifetime. The situation is as follows: there have been a great many of these water utility facilities in the past period, so the KEOP Handbook was published in September 2007 and from 2008-2009 onwards, there have been numerous settlements in the entire territory of Hungary, typically including sewer network development, reconstruction, expansion and water supply. I'll talk about one of your specimens soon. All of these projects, all of which were implemented by presenting the tender in the detailed feasibility study plan in the so-called CBA part, i.e. in the cost-benefit analysis, in Hungarian, in the cost-benefit analysis, had to be presented in part to the European Union, so that is to say, to the managing authority, I do not mean Hungary, but to the managing authority in Brussels, that the investment that a local government may carry out from European Union resources has to be sustainable for 35 years. Because in such cases, you had to take 35 years as a mandatory maintenance period. However, since the European Union makes it mandatory for us to have fully and reasonably depreciation, it had to be shown at the time and there, in this cost-benefit analysis, what the channel fee would look like in individual municipalities, let us say. So what will be the basic fee and what will be the fee per cubic metre in order to ensure that the depreciation description can already be applied in it. So in Hungarian, individual users pay these fees by also paying in small instalments the cost of maintaining this entire water utility. So every five years, smaller machines must be replaced, even larger machines every 10-15 years, and the total cost of the work must be repaid in full in 35 years. This is a very, very important item, it is a very, very significant burden for individual municipalities and, let us say, for consumers. It is no wonder, then, that the government believes that the 35-year period is very small, not to mention that these systems are obviously built for a much longer period. Let's just say that what is typical here in downtown Budapest is that, for example, a 99-year-old plumbing with a large diameter is not far from here under Nádor Street, so I feel that it is an exaggeration, because it was this network or another section of the network that exploded at the time, a few years ago - perhaps several of us remember it - next to the Gellért Hotel and practically washed away a wing of the Gellért Hotel. So it's no wonder anyone thinks it's lifelike to replace these facilities. In a 50 to 60 year period, they should all be there, but maybe these 35 years are too short. However, there is no doubt that the municipalities have undertaken to do so. I would like to ask the Secretary of State with respect: what about these commitments? However, these were not only undertaken by the municipalities, but through them the whole of Hungary. I understand, then, that this amendment also means that all such investments, financed from KEOP resources, which have been made so far, need to be recalculated in all cost-benefit analyses, and that all depreciation charges already paid to this effect may, where appropriate, go back to consumers via the service provider. I would very much like to have a clear answer to this, because if that were not the case, then either we have deceived the European Union or we have deceived consumers, but there is definitely something wrong with this system. The other is 5. The question of §, which is about, and then it appears in several other paragraphs that, due to the enforcement of professional aspects, it is desirable for water utility providers to be involved in different decisions. [[15.00]] How good it would really be if, during the planning phase, future service providers were involved, from a purely professional point of view. Unfortunately, this was not the case, nor were they included in the planning process, nor in the construction process, nor in the choice of optional technologies, which technology can be used when, where, and when. This is how it could have been that in the case of his troubles it was a water quality improvement project, and I would like to stress the name of this particular proposal, which, by the way, I will look at the various data of which I will look at next week, thanks to the Secretary of State. So I am very curious to know whether the data, these certain documents, some of which are already available to me, but all the rest of them support the concern that the troubles feel very much on their own skin, namely that their Baja water - but not only Baja is affected, but we are talking about the agglomeration of Baja, so 90 thousand people - is undrinkable, stinky, can't be used for anything, so not only for cooking but also for washing, because the chosen technology was not suitable. Even though the provider at the time indicated that this should not be chosen, because the network that had been implemented at the time will not take this particular technology well, it will not be compatible with it, based on the excessively high oxygen content, which dissolves previous deposits, and that is why this terrible situation is in Baja. But not only in this sense, the price that could be used for the reconstruction of the original water network was set too low during the planning process and the contract with the contractor. So if you could have replaced the pipes that the operator itself indicated that they would not be compatible, then perhaps this whole problem does not exist. But we have now come to the point that we have spent very, very many billion forints from European Union funds, in parentheses: since the Prime Minister's statement, we know that this is our money, our Hungarian taxpayer money, so in Hungarian: the Hungarian taxpayer's money was wasted by building a service that was useless, although otherwise, if this paragraph had already been implemented, so the provider would have been involved in the planning and execution of the project, then this could not have happened. The third point I would like to mention quickly, which was also mentioned, is point 12. §, which states that in the case of dwellings built by non-residential users, i.e. in Hungarian by a real estate investor, but intended for sale, there will be no need to pay a water utility development contribution. We know that this contribution will always have to be paid to the consumer before a new connection is made, but it appears that these certain real estate investors will be relieved of this obligation. Now, I think that the obligation to bear general public burdens was already written down in 12 points on 15 March 48 as a basic obligation for all of us, and I think we may have thought that this is still valid in the Hungarian legal order, but here is an example that we do not. So there are equals and there are more equals who don't have to pay. How much more equal can they be? Let's not go too far, let's just stay here in Budapest: Kopasi dam, Garancsi's investment. How many apartments will be built there so that after that, Garanchi himself doesn't have to pay for this particular contribution? So if we are talking about the reduction of the rent, then István Garancsi will certainly achieve the reduction of the rent, because what is involved in the construction would be a mandatory expense, and in this case he is suddenly unexpected - how much? - will save you billions of dollars, Secretary of State. And this particular contribution has its place, by the way. So you have to pay for this, whether you like it or not, people, because the purpose of this is to secure capacity on the one hand, so that what goes to that apartment, the amount of water provided in the tube, that capacity, on the other hand, is a basis for the reconstruction, maintenance and maintenance of the network. When these water utility facilities are built and there are already so-called consumers, so in the case of a sewer investment there are already issuers, because in a given village there are real estates, they use the water network, they also have to pay a contribution of interest to them, and without it there is not much connection to the sewer network. Those who build afterwards are also obliged, on the same basis, to join this system created by the community in this way, because it is part of the general responsibility. But here's another example: I'm going to give you an example in Újpest: the Metrodom investment. The Metrodom investment is also interesting because thousands of apartments are created in Újpesten, an otherwise rather crowded part of the city, so it will not only burden the water infrastructure, but also other infrastructure, it is quite certain, for example, the transport infrastructure is this extremely significant development, but the company itself, which you now give an incredible generous gesture, is once again reduced by rent, in addition to a small 36 other companies in a remote village, an offshore company registered in a former pub building. Are you sure this is what the Hungarian state wants to favour? Secretary of State, where are you going to miss this money, and why is it good to prefer an offshore company in this sense? So I think that, because of all these concerns, unless the Secretary of State has now given us some very clear rebuttal to these problems that I have raised, we will not be able to support it, despite the fact that, overall, the bill contains only technical amendments. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-20-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Member István Józsa asked for the floor from the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-20-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We can witness the exsanguination of water utility companies, and I wouldn't even say it's well-meaning, because there's a secretary of state from another profession, the lead speaker of Fidesz, a very good, very kind French teacher [[Mónika Dunai intervenes.]] They didn't find a building engineer who might have sucked himself up to this subject not just with water, but with knowledge. That's a terrible proposal. On the one hand, what my fellow Member has said is that companies are bleeding from the cost of labour, so that's what 12 is. In Section 2 of this section, the non-resident user does not pay public utility development contributions, but only uses utility development concessions of up to a billion-dollar magnitude, which means that they themselves are not giving the money to the population that could be given, but to the friends, the companies for whom they are -six, because I remember that they are in a conditional mode, so who will be judged not to have to pay it. This means that what does not go into public utility development contributions will be missing from the water utility company, so that it should be replaced on some branch or other for its operation. The other is workers' poverty. The salaries of water utilities professionals are so low that they simply do not stay there. As a matter of fact, I've heard from executives that 25 percent of the turnover is a year, which is more of an outflow. So they can't provide professionals at this rate of pay, and then comes what's said here is that they have too much oxygen in their troubles, and they even remove the dirt that isn't produced now, but they've been loaded on the wires long ago, and brown water flows from the taps in Baja. [[15.10]] So when you brought the slang into the official language by talking about overhead, because it's like I'm asking for a mix - no one knows what's in it. It's a mixed cut, it's used in the slang by people, it's not a legal category. When you talk about ruckus, you want to dream of something inexplicable for the public, which we have repeatedly demonstrated was increased before, for example, between 10 and 12 energy prices, 30 to 32 percent, and then earned 20 to 25 percent reduction. So that's your fee for smacking things up. Now, this is what they are trying to do in the destruction of water utility companies, which is an extremely ugly thing, because the President of the Republic is quite rightly presenting Hungary as a water power, because we could be on the basis of our options; the Metropolitan Waterworks have excellent technological and excellent operating results, along with its excellent leadership. But if they make laws like this that bleed you out, destroy water utility companies, then don't expect these results to last. Then the President of the Republic will stand at the next World Water Conference to say that we are a world power of water, except Baja, where brown turd water flows from the faucet, because that's how the renovation was done? So for such an extremely exposed basic service, a public utility providing a basic food condition, such as the water utility, water supply, I think that much more prudently, much more guarantees, guarantees and a guaranteeing law guaranteeing real security of supply, the quality of this. I know that Mr President should be going very much, but I would also like to mention to what an incredible degree of competitiveness utility supply is. That's the 12th one right there. § 2 points out that what is happening in Hungary is nonsense, because the entrepreneurs who have lobbied themselves to the point that the 12th is nonsense. This is the real market natural need. So the normal thing would be that if a service provider had the ability, it would have the money to use financial and technical means to develop and expand the service, thus building this utility to its potential users. He doesn't want to take it from the users, he wants to take it there and then sell it. A few ten years ago, the world press was covered by the news that made it clear what I was going to say: in the French Alps, in the back of the goddamn hell, someone asked for a building permit for a weekend house, and when they got this, the telephone provider, at their own expense, led up to the house to be built 28 kilometers of cable, because it is his policy that if a building permit is issued somewhere, then the telephone service should be provided according to their own rules, according to their own laws. Now, that would be normal, that would be the policy in Hungary too, not to talk about achievements, dear Mónika - perhaps you should call him by his first name, unlike John. [[It's a rare blur.]] - to go ahead with the service provider to potential customers and offer their goods. It's not that I'm gonna take the money from you, and I'm gonna tell you how much I'm gonna do it, dearly, and when you pay for it in advance, I'm gonna give you a service six months or a year after that. So, I can't do this, it's an outdated view, we're past that age! So, if you'd be so kind as to bring in a law that's in line with the 21st century. 100th century and corresponding to the decent care of the Hungarian population. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-20-106	Honourable Congressman. I think it would be right for you to choose the signalling structures that you use and not use a signalling structure that does not correspond to the usual, normal style of speech of the Hungarian Parliament. That's because your Baja used a certain device in connection with water. [[Dr. István Józsa: Brown water?]] To see that I'm not stuck in time, and I have time. So I'm warning you. I'm asking who else would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-20-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I would just like to give Mr Secretary of State the time to draw his attention to not answering the questions in the closing words, Mr State Secretary, because then there will be no debate. Do me a favor and honor your fellow Members, including Enikő Hegedűs, for answering the serious accusations made about the government and you, not in the closing words, but now. I'll tell you once again that if you didn't pay attention, in particular in Mrs Hegedűs' speech, István Garancsi, for example, will be given a billion-dollar discount to your friend during a construction project. These are serious accusations, which exactly shows that the government is willing to make laws in the interest of friends so that they can make as much profit as possible and keep as much money in their pockets as possible. I would like to ask you to really answer, not in the closing, because you know that after the closing, Members can no longer answer, and this is a question that I think should be clarified here. And not just to say negatives, and maybe to answer that, let me compliment you. It could be a huge job, by the way, from a codification point of view and from a legislative point of view, to walk into an office and tell you to give the Garanchi hundreds of millions of dollars off and cancel this thing, and you have to sweat behind this one thing, let's say, ten pages. It really is a very big feat, and unfortunately, I would like to congratulate you on that. But believe me, this is not the most appropriate state of affairs for you to lead this country, it is not the best state for you to make up the laws. And I would very much ask the Secretary of State to answer these charges, these are serious accusations. If you refuse to answer these accusations, the answer is clear: yes, we can see that your aim in lawmaking is 80 percent the same as for my friends, István Garancsi, Andy Vajna, and we could still list Árpád Habony and everyone, to please, to provide public funds, and to take these public funds away from the country, the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-20-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since no one has applied for any further speeches, [[György Szilágyi: Sure!]] The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Zsolt Szabó:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-04-20-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I don't know where to start, because so many things have been said, and sometimes thoughts come with surprise, because I don't know where to put it either. Maybe I'd like to start by saying that what I'm about to tell you and how professionally you're looking at it wrong, I'd like to base things on that. I'm an auditor, and I know what's going on in the water utilities sectors, and I'm afraid the nice left-wing faction hasn't been able to coordinate with MaVíz. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes!]] Since two thirds of water utility providers thank you very much, it is absolutely fine. [[Dr. István Józsa: So far! Anita Herringes intervenes.]] And I will now tell you on a legislative basis what this is about and what legislative parameter we want to move on with. First of all, I would like to draw a parallel to the housing issue and the water connection fee. Even if we reduce the VAT on basic foods, we are not helping the slaughterhouse, but the goal is that when the final supplier gets the meat, he gets it cheaper, at least in a way reduced by VAT. [[15.20]] The same goes for this. I am very confident that all those who build apartments will give it to the users at a much cheaper price, since this fee does not have to be paid, and there is no need to move on. And I refuse to vote as a Member of Parliament in the matter of raising the VAT back, because that doesn't make any sense. It's a pointless thing. And if we go all the way, I'd like to tell you what the system that the government is taking now is and what it wants to do to facilitate development. The European Union has set the maintenance obligation for five years. This is true of both canal and water investments. In fact, we know that the usage time is much longer, for example, the Baja water system has served the people who lived there since the 1950s, but it has been said here that there is a nearly 100-year-old system. The Hungarian government wants us to create an opportunity for improvements. This is the so-called rolling development plan, which is now being drawn up by law, and which is being compiled by local authorities in consultation with water utility providers. It has three paces: there is a short, which is a one-year development, there is a medium-term and there is a long-term development idea. The Hungarian government creates a specific development framework in the budget, which can be applied for for the renewal and replacement of specific systems by water utility providers. To do so, we lay down a condition, which appears in this law, so that we can see that he also collects the money in depreciation or rent-related terms. With this money, you can apply for this central development framework. And what did we do about that? At the end of the year, the rate of depreciation was established in the corporate tax law in accordance with practical practice, so that it could be maintained by water utility providers. And there are other legislative steps that are about to happen. This will help to create development funds for water utility providers, and the development fund that we have set out here will also serve this. In fact, the prize that collects will ensure or ensure that outdated systems can be replaced. I live in a place that is a dead end, so we are last, and if we have to wash the system, then we know that the water utility provider will wash out that system and then the water will be cloudy for a day or two. The problem in Baja is that because the wells and filtration systems have been renovated, the private impact in the water utility system itself has remained there. This manganese impact makes the water colourful, and every time the system is washed - this has happened then, this has been said in Parliament's response - this problem exists. However, the lack of maintenance by the water utility provider during previous periods is not the system's fault, but should look at the attitude of the expert who is responsible for participating in maintenance processes. Such legislative amendments allow us to take water utility providers in this direction and to facilitate such activities. The rolling development plan also provides an opportunity for water utility providers to plan how many years and what improvements need to be implemented. We would like to see that these nearly 40 water utility providers provide information. I would like to stress that it is not for a water utility provider to pay 13 or 14 months' wages, and there are also bonuses or rewards. So not everyone clearly has a problem with farming, and there is a clear need for such improvements not everywhere. I would ask my fellow Members to ask what is the intention and which areas of development we would like to help with before they form a professional opinion. Most of the legislation before us includes the amendments proposed by MaVíz, and the technical amendments and development ideas that create opportunities for investment and development in the long term will create opportunities. However, when maintenance is cancelled and there is a way to develop and replace systems that have been cancelled in the past period, it is not possible. Neither the KEOP nor the KEHOP allow maintenance development to be fully modified, for example, there is a maximum of 5 percent in the KEHOP that, in the case of a new development, the development of old systems - pipe change and other things - can be achieved. This is what the government is now taking steps to do with this legislative amendment, and that is what we are making possible. My request to my fellow Members, whether we are at our disposal, is to find us, to see what the proposals we have made so far and what the legislative amendments make this possible. Then you can make an opinion and criticize it. By the way, just because we're a millimeter ahead of the previous ones, please support this amendment proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-20-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments tomorrow, i.e. Friday at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one applied for a post-meeting speech. I thank my fellow Members, the staff of the Parliamentary Office and the stenographers for their work. The Parliament will resume its work at 11:00 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 3:27 p.m.]]
