u2017-03-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be in charge of this meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on criminal proceedings until closure. Government referral T/13972. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. A maximum period of 30 minutes is available. Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-08-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Following the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Enforcement, a new Criminal Procedure Act has also become necessary. The T/13972 in front of you. Proposal No 19 of 1998 on criminal proceedings, which was difficult to apply in practice, entered into force on 1 July 2003, but lost its uniform character as a result of many amendments since then. It seeks to replace the law. If the proposal is adopted, Hungary's sixth Code of Criminal Procedure will be adopted. The first Code of Criminal Procedure, the 1896 Criminal Procedure, has been in force for more than 50 years and is regarded as an advanced code prior to European procedural law. The following three codes, 1951, 1962 and 1973, were born according to the expectations of the party states of socialism, and the latter were then tried to change the regime in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law. Nevertheless, he continued to bear the marks of the age in which he was born. It can also be seen from the explanatory memorandum to previous codes of procedure that it is necessary to create a new one, if the coherence of the preventive law is worn out by the series of amendments and its context fades. The replacement of the code, which has been amended several times in various respects, is therefore a self-reliance after a while. This is also true of the fifth Code of Criminal Procedure in force. Just think that the Act adopted in 1998 entered into force on 1 July 2003 with more than half of the provisions of the Code being affected by legislative amendments, and after its adoption it was amended in a total of 1809 places by 89 laws and 15 decisions of the Constitutional Court. Worse coherence would justify the creation of a new code even if there were no other reasons for creating a new law. However, much more factors have justified the need to create a new code. There has been a growing need to curb the excessive delay in procedures, to respond to the needs of law enforcement and to the new societal challenges of changing age. In 2015, the conduct of criminal proceedings took more than a fifth of the time than it had been ten years ago; this shows that the handling of cases has become more difficult and time-consuming for the authorities. At the same time, the enforcement of the law in criminal proceedings has increasingly formulated their needs against criminal proceedings. Those who apply the law need procedural rules on the basis of which they can close cases with a simple assessment of minor matters with little time and financial burden. In more serious cases, there is a need for tools that can be used to better and faster account for the perpetrator of the crime. Edmond Locard put it this way that, with the passing time, it is the truth that can vanish, but we ourselves have seen many times that true sinners cannot be punished with the full rigour of the law if it has been longer since the commission. We can also see that some simplification tools are already available in the current criminal proceedings, but they are still not available to the desired extent. Authorities are increasingly using solutions to simplify the procedure, but there is also a need for further simplification solutions. In order for solutions to work, a procedural system must be established where the authorities and the other party are interested in closing the case as soon as possible. In addition, the ever-changing social and economic environment justifies the introduction of new institutions; many new institutions require a new system. The explosive transformation of electronicisation and associated social habits requires criminal proceedings to open up in this direction and establish rules that serve not only the interests of the authorities but also the interests of the society involved in criminal proceedings. Society rightly expects authorities to act with special care for those affected, victims and persons requiring special treatment. Society also rightly expects that criminal proceedings should not only be quick, but also effective, i.e. that the perpetrator of criminal offences should be held accountable without exception, at the expense of society, for a fair trial. At present, the barriers to efficiency are a number of administrative burdens, too formalism, which can be broken down without prejudice to integrity, as well as the lack of simple forms of procedure that require as little working time and costs as possible. Dear House, In response to the demands expressed on several sides, the government has created the last element of its criminal reform, the bill before you. Without the renewal of the procedures, the other elements of the reform, including the consistency of the criminal code, cannot be sufficiently effective, because without a judge, as Károly Csemegi has pointed out, there is no right, and the law is a written emissary if there is no judge. Therefore, material law cannot prevail if there are no appropriate procedural rules. The new Btk. Its severity and consistency cannot be fulfilled if criminal proceedings are not able to enforce its rules. The creation of a new law on criminal proceedings is therefore not only a legislative need for practice and society, but also an essential instrument for the effective enforcement of substantive criminal law. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me then present the main points of the proposal in a succinct way compared to the length of the bill, but in detail, in line with its importance. The proposal strengthens the professional validity of the court's decisions and, in the general procedure, removes the lay element from the judicial councils. In the general proceedings, the court shall act as a single judge in the first instance, without the assistance of any sitter. [[9.10]] However, if, in particular because of the complexity of the case, you refer the case to the judicial board, not two sitting men but two other professional judges will assist you in your work. A new group of cases has been set up where professionalism is strengthened by even stricter court composition rules. Because of the so-called priority crimes relating to farming, the court is required to act in a Chamber of three professional judges at first instance. But a member of the council will be a judge of the economic or civil jurisdiction of the court, who will thus be able to enforce the professional aspects of the related law in criminal proceedings. In criminal proceedings, victims of crime often experience a series of new traumas: they are obliged to talk about the harm they have suffered on several occasions, in which the other actors in the proceedings often try to check their truth and their unbiased statements, subject to their interests, without sufficient empathy. Victims often have to meet the defendant, conduct humiliating expert investigations, and often even damage to their assets when criminal proceedings are closed. In the new criminal proceedings, all these factors are minimized by the bill in such a way as to allow victims and other persons requiring special treatment to be treated differently on the basis of their individual characteristics. In order to avoid secondary trauma, if necessary, the authority may interrogate them by means of telecommunications or video transmission or electronically record the procedural action in order to allow repeated interrogation to take place only in the rarest case. In addition, the authority will be obliged to avoid repeating the procedural act and to avoid unnecessary contact by the person requiring special treatment with other persons involved in criminal proceedings. However, the welfare and protection of people is ensured not only by these graphic examples but also by a whole system of measures. The victim can, if he wishes, also obtain more effective financial compensation in criminal proceedings, and the prosecutor can conclude a much wider arrangement with the defendant, subject to compensation for the damage suffered by the victim. The mediation procedure may also take place in a broader context. And if the prosecutor suspends the proceedings as a quasi probationary period, most cases will require the suspect to pay the victim's damages, otherwise the subsequent termination of the case will not be possible. The proposal continues to seek to establish material truth, realistic facts, but also introduces significant innovations in the system of proof. There will be no need to prove the reality of which the accuser, the accused, and the defender will accept together. Thus, evidence can indeed be focused on the issues in which the debate exists. An innovation of structural importance is a rethink of the court's obligation to clarify the facts, i.e. whether the court must prove ex officio the facts which support the charge. It must be in accordance with the law in force, because the court is obliged to investigate the facts even if the prosecution does not make any motions to that end. On the other hand, it is proposed that the court should not be obliged to carry out the evidence that the prosecutor did not propose. It is therefore a consistent requirement that the court not take over the role of the accuser and that the prosecutor bear responsibility for any failure to act. This does not mean, of course, that the judge would not be allowed to carry out the necessary evidence in his conscience if no one had made a motion for it. If this option were not given, the court would not be able to carry out on its own the evidence that is clearly necessary, which could lead to the defendant's dismissal: for example, it would not be possible to appoint an expert on its own in order to examine the mental state of illness. In this new system of stronger validation of the sharing of court functions, material truth, or reality, remains a fundamental aspect. One of the most significant innovations in the proposal is to integrate the rules for the collection of classified information to detect and prove criminal offences into the Criminal Procedure Act. The new legislation, partially summarised, removes the anomaly that often occurs in secret intelligence gathering for law enforcement purposes, which appears in the loss of evidence, while providing a higher degree of guarantee to prevent the misuse of secret tools. The proposal therefore gives the authorities a new, more effective instrument. At the same time, the proposal also protects citizens by the fact that, unlike in the past, no secret information may be collected from a specific person for law enforcement purposes for an unlimited period of time subject to judicial authorisation. This time limit shall be maximized and shall not exceed 360 days. The proposal does not only protect the interests of victims and persons in need of special treatment by significantly redefining the conduct of procedural acts using telecommunications devices. According to the new solution, even the presence of the laden one will be fully ensured in the procedure by means of telecommunications. However, this does not imply that the authorities or the court are, in certain cases, excluded from the direct and personal interrogation of the person involved in the proceedings. The proposal considers this technological development primarily as an efficiency-enhancing option and a protection tool. The proposal also sets out a new system of compulsory measures involving the withdrawal and restriction of freedom, in which it emphasises the principle of gradualness both at systemic level and in detail rules. The proposal considers arrest not only in principle as an emergency measure to be applied in the most serious cases, but also as a major reform of the institutions capable of triggering arrest, it offers solutions that provide a real opportunity to reduce arrest by its application to the most serious cases. The proposal regulates the existing rules on house arrest, removal bans, bans and applications under a single name as criminal supervision in order to ensure that they can be applied as flexibly as possible and individually as possible together with distance. Compliance with the rules of conduct of these two coercive measures will be facilitated by two additional instruments: the tracking technical tool and bail. There is no doubt about its first effectiveness: the technical device can track its laden position and the device alarms when the loaded leaves the designated location or tries to remove the tracker. The bail institution, which is currently almost completely neglected, will be used more widely and will become a stronger security. Bail will not only be used to ensure the presence of the defendant, but also to maintain all the rules of conduct of criminal supervision and detention. You will not only lose the amount of bail charged if you are arrested for not appearing in the proceedings, but also for violating any rules of conduct, such as leaving your designated apartment despite the prohibition, trying to dispose of evidence or committing another crime. Thus, in the re-regulated system of forced measures on personal leave, criminal surveillance and detention will be so individualised and guaranteed that arrest will only take place in the most serious cases, so that prison congestion can be significantly reduced. The proposal also makes significant progress in emergency measures affecting property in order to be effective. In order to confiscate the property resulting from the crime, the lock can be ordered by the prosecution or the investigating authority up to HUF 100 million in the future. However, in order to preserve the guarantees, the possibility of direct judicial review against such a decision will be ensured. The proposal introduces a two-stage new investigative model in which it clearly demarcates which body is responsible. In the first stage of detection, the investigating authority has provided a separate, flexible, more informal form of procedure, which the prosecution can only intervene in exceptional cases, essentially in cases of violation of the law. In the course of the investigation, on the other hand, the prosecutor is in charge, he decides on the individual investigative actions, because he is the only one who can decide what evidence he needs in order to decide, prosecute, compromise with the defendant, take diversion measures or terminate the proceedings. [[9.20]] Between these two stages of the investigation, the cesure is the involvement of the loaded, as it requires a different type of task and competence to detect an unknown crime than an investigation into the criminal liability of a well-founded suspect. The proposal integrates the indictment phase of criminal proceedings into the investigation phase in order to ensure that substantive decisions or diversion institutions are taken in relation to such cases not only after the formal completion of the investigation. At present, for example, they may refer the case to a mediation procedure only if all the details of the facts have already been revealed, and when the mediation procedure is not successful, charges must be brought. It will be possible to apply mediation procedures much more widely than today's rules, for example for criminal offences or for perpetrators where the full penalty or most of it cannot be waived, but some of it will. The prosecutor will therefore be able to make an offer to the defendant, in agreement, that, even after the nature of the offence committed, he will not have the opportunity to terminate the procedure or to relieve it without limitation, but if he is involved in the diversion, he will only propose a specific penalty and the court will not impose any more serious penalties. The other significant diversion institution is the conditional prosecutor's suspension, which replaces the delay in the prosecution and, like the mediation procedure, will not be an alternative to the prosecution, but a flexible diversion option from the suspicion. This institution has two basic forms of its current and new system: general, which can be used for any minor crime and can be used for specific specific offences. The general case does not change, but the scope of the special cases is extended: it will be possible to suspend the procedure for any crime where the Btk. According to him, the procedure should be terminated on the basis of his specific conduct during the laden procedure. The proposal significantly simplifies the system of formal and substantive provisions against the indictment while maintaining guarantees. It is an outstanding innovation in the proposal to give priority to the cooperation of the burdened parties in the procedures. In line with the principles of timeliness and perpetuity, the majority of European states have come to realize that, on the basis of pragmatic considerations, it is worth treating matters in which the defendant admits differently, in contrast to the procedures in which the denial must be proven to be guilty. The proposal establishes a new system based on trends in European criminal proceedings. In this system, the defendant will be given the opportunity, from the suspect interview to the final end of the procedure, to admit the offence in exchange for a more favourable judgment as laid down by law, so that the criminal proceedings can be closed quickly. However, the important principle of directing is that the later you do this, the less discount you can expect. Of course, the incentive to admit to the burden must not go beyond the limits of decency. To ensure this, the proposal maintains strict guarantee rules. In the new procedural law, admission can lead to two kinds of agreement. In the first case, the prosecutor and the defendant may enter into a formal agreement, irrespective of the court, on measures falling within the competence of the prosecutor. Such is a reference to mediation, a conditional prosecutor's suspension or a reprimand replacing a delay in the prosecution. The penalty or the specified rate shall not be mentioned here, mutatis mutandis. Another form of agreement is a formal agreement between the prosecutor and the defendant on sanctions and other legal consequences which may be imposed by the court, with the participation of the defender, which may be concluded until the opening of the preparatory meeting. The court may then examine only the legality of the agreement, not change its content, approve or reject the agreement. In addition, agreement can also be reached within the framework of the Preparatory Meeting, which in fact does not lead to a formal agreement, but rather requires the approval and acceptance of the loaded. In such a case, if the defendant accepts the penalty of a specified degree envisaged in the indictment and waives the hearing by admitting guilt, the court may not impose a penalty more serious than that contained in the indictment. Of course, the defendant may admit his guilt at any time after the preparatory meeting and waive his right to trial in the round of admissions. The proposal also accelerates and simplifies judicial proceedings. In line with developments in international law, it approaches the presence of a loaded negotiation as a right and not as an obligation. An obligation shall be granted only if the judge considers it justified in order to prove it. The right of presence can therefore be waived in any case if the appropriate guarantees, in particular the contribution of the defender, are given. Unlike the legislation in force, the proposal separates the substantive preparation of the hearing from the administrative measures which may be taken on the basis of the indictment at the beginning of the judicial phase, which is concentrated at the preparatory meeting. The aim of the new system, which requires the thorough preparedness of the parties to the proceedings and of the conductors, is to ensure that the content, means and means of prosecution and defence can be recorded as soon as possible and at the same time through meaningful and focused trial preparation. Thus, the framework for evidence in the course of the court will, as far as possible, be clarified at the beginning of the legal proceedings. In this spirit, the proposal, in addition to the written preparation of the hearing, puts the main emphasis on the preparatory meeting, which is also a priority place for the concentration of the evidence of negotiation, i.e. in addition to judicial control, the parties will have the opportunity to set the basic direction of proof here. The grounds for the judgments will be shorter and the burden on the courts will be reduced by the fact that, in some cases, the court will only have to justify the provisions which have been challenged by appeal, but even those provisions, in such a way as to avoid excessive and unnecessarily detailed justifications. The proposal simplifies its rules by keeping the basis of the second stage procedure. In addition to the full override, the case of limited override is expanded. This means that the facts are recorded, as stated in the judgment at first instance, and that their correctness is not examined by the court at second instance. It is a novelty that new evidence can only be provided at this point, i.e. if the party at least suspects that it has become aware of it after the publication of the first instance decision. The proposal significantly facilitates the conclusion of criminal proceedings by broadening the reformatory powers of the second instance court, i.e. the cases in which the first instance court must not be ordered to repeat the proceedings, but the second instance must change the judgment. The Court of First Instance may be referred to a new case on grounds of unfoundedness only if the court has not established the facts or is entirely unsolved. It is an important innovation that, even in these cases, the decision repealing the judgment at first instance and ordering the new procedure will still be subject to appeal. This double limit will limit the repetition of the procedure to the most necessary cases. The case will no longer be fully overruled in the third instance and its scope will be significantly reduced. The proposal treats not only minor victims and witnesses involved in the proceedings, but also minors. This is also reflected in the new, strong definition of the purpose of criminal proceedings against minors. The special purpose of such procedures is to promote the education of minors, ensure their social integration, prevent repeat of crimes and make amends. The recent reduction in the minimum age of criminality and the extension of the burden cooperation system to minors impose gradual requirements on fairness and professionalism of the procedure. Therefore, the proposal also makes the presence of the defender compulsory prior to the indictment in the course of proceedings involving the underage defendant which directly serves the evidence. The proposal also preserves the system of sittings in military criminal proceedings by introducing an auxiliary provision for the rank of sitter in criminal proceedings against the General in the rank of defendant. The proposal renews certain specific procedures that are specifically suitable for acceleration, the presentation to the court and the hearing procedure. The conditions for the application of court-martial shall be extended. In the current Criminal Procedure Act, the procedure called non-negotiation was proposed as a criminal procedure. The possibility of its use is significantly increased: it can be used even in the absence of a confession in the case of a minor criminal offence of up to three years' imprisonment, while in the case of a confession it can be used in the case of a criminal offence punishable by five years' imprisonment. We have seen the majority of cases rise to legal force at first instance, because the substantive decision is not considered to be offensive by the parties. The proposal regulates the replacement private procedure as a separate procedure, in a separate chapter, thus making it easy to understand, coherent and easier to enforce victim claims. [[9.30]] The proposal implements corrections to strengthen the guarantee in the procedure for border-locking offences. The specific procedure for priority cases is now largely empty and the original aim of the regulation overlaps with the general legislative objectives of the new Code of Criminal Procedure and, therefore, the proposal does not consider it justified to maintain this specific procedure. The proposal regulates the current special procedures in a new system. The correction of the final decision on ancillary matters may be carried out in a simplified review procedure, and proceedings not strictly subject to criminal proceedings shall appear in a separate law under the jurisdiction of the prison judge. The proposal also significantly facilitates the indemnification procedure by introducing split compensation, which includes two procedures, a simplified tariff-based compensation procedure and an indemnification suit. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, For a long time, it would be worth mentioning, in addition to these main points, the extent to which criminal proceedings will be more reasonable, efficient and faster in terms of some of their detailed rules, which the proposal builds up as a coherent and transparent system. Péter Paczolay, former President of the Constitutional Court, in his writing "Good State - Good Law" rightly pointed out that government objectives can be expected to be truly effective if they have been accepted at a minimum level by those who do not agree. In this context, during codification, the Ministry of Justice held an extremely wide-ranging consultation. In addition to professionalism and legal science, they have not only been involved in administrative consultation but also since the beginning of codification in the development of the concept and text. Public administration also took place more widely than required by the legislation. The Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Court Office, the Curia, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Hungarian Bar Association were also involved. The Ministry also listened to and took into account the views of civil society organisations that were critical to the government, such as the Company for Freedom Rights, Transparency International and the Hungarian Helsinki Committee. During the five-party consultation of the bill, the representatives of the parties made professional comments, most of which were incorporated into the draft by the Ministry. During the conciliation, representatives of opposition parties could also be convinced of the professionalism of the law and, to say the least, favored they have also made a statement in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, We are aware that the interest in completing efficiency and procedure as soon as possible and the requirement to enforce the rights of persons subject to the procedure may conflict with each other. However, we are convinced that this contrast is not necessarily necessary, and we have found solutions with the proposal that will strengthen the effectiveness of the procedure while not hindering, but explicitly supporting the rights of those involved in it. I think that, on the basis of what has been said, it is possible to conclude to you that the new criminal law law does not only meet the requirements of the dogmatical unit of the law, the enforcement of the law and the expectations of society, but that we will have a forward-looking new criminal procedure that is of relevance to the 1896 Code. Allow me to conclude by quoting from the expozee of the Minister for Justice Sándor Erdély, the author of the first Code of Criminal Procedure, which was said on September 4, 1896,:. to create, you must not get lost in a crowd of constantly changing counter-views, you must make a decision, and if you have found something right, you must not throw it away for an imaginary good. Anyone who is not fanatical in his view, who does not consider his own conviction to be infallible, can easily submit to the great interest of the country, which now commands indescribably that we now create our criminal lawsuits without delay. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. By highlighting and briefly presenting the most important elements of the bill, it was my intention to convince you that the proposal will respond to the needs of law enforcement and social expectations. The solutions developed are suitable for achieving the desired goal, leading to more effective, faster prosecution. For that to happen, it's in everyone's mutual interest. That is why I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-08-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the keynote speeches, in a 30-minute time frame for each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Vice-President Gergely Gulyás, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-03-08-3	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor. Ferenc Finkey, an excellent legal scientist of the time, said: "Hungarian Criminal Procedure is an integral part of the development of European law, but it is not a servitude of Western European codes taken as a model, since they have been transformed, revised or even improved by the editors of the law, and have only accepted from foreign rights what was appropriate to the principles and interests of the Hungarian public and to the interests and needs of the Hungarian society."The historical tradition of Hungarian criminal proceedings not only places responsibility on the legislator, but also serves as appropriate guidance for both the government and the National Assembly. The T/13972. The bill on criminal proceedings, which is submitted to the Court, also complies with the requirements arising from this history of our law. The proposal preserves the Hungarian procedural traditions based on the continental legal system, but recognising the needs of effective action against crime, it includes modernisations which are not far from procedural traditions, but also codifying the achievements of legal development. The proposal leaves the values of the law currently in force which are operational and on which neither the case law nor the law nor any new experience abroad raise the need for change. In addition to tradition and modernisation, the objective of the proposal is very important to restore public trust in justice. Not to dispute that in this area the decisions of the Parliament, the latest procedural laws and the funding opportunities provided by the Government and the work of the National Court of Justice have led to progress in recent years, it must be seen that this social need remains unchanged, and if I look at the big cases, then there is a full right to the whole justice system. With the new Criminal Code and the new Penal Code, the Parliament has established the rules of the law on material and criminal law on a secure basis without radical changes. The reform of judicial enforcement and the judicial expert system also enhances public trust in justice and, not least, is an essential driver of fair trial justice. However, as long as it is not reassuring to know how to get from the crime to the execution of the sentence faster than it currently is, the strict criminal law cannot be consistently enforced. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot talk about a fair procedure when a case can last unnecessarily for years or even more than a decade. On several occasions, Hungary has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for the length of criminal proceedings. Of course, in recent years, the European Court of Human Rights has had some very freaky decisions, let's just think about the double-standard decision on the criminality of the red star, the sickle hammer, but in relation to the length of proceedings, the body rightly states the breach of the convention. There are no effective means of avoiding towed procedures in particularly complex cases under the current rules. In the assessment of some high-profile public-interest cases - it is enough to think about the Key price issue, the criminal proceedings launched by the autumn 2006 police terrorism or the case of red sludge - there is an increased slowness compared to statistical data, and therefore the social perception of the speed of criminal proceedings is extremely negative. It follows from what has been said that the main task of the new law on criminal proceedings is to contribute to a significant acceleration of proceedings. The introduction of new deadlines and the tightening of existing deadlines would in itself result in a mere transfer of resources under unchanged organisational, personnel and material conditions. However, the new bill for criminal proceedings is primarily designed to introduce new institutions for speeding up and to reform existing ones and to regulate them in a coordinated way, at the same time as in terms of content and form. In addition, in addition to the new legal institutions, the proposal also sets specific deadlines for existing but previously regulated legal institutions. For example, it introduces a general time limit for action and provides for exact and accountable time limits for all key decisions and measures in court proceedings. In addition to speeding up, it is extremely forward-looking in terms of efficiency that the proposal allows a final decision to be taken in criminal proceedings without unnecessary repetitions, rather than a waste of resources from repeals and knowledge of procedures, as Mr State Secretary said. [[9.40]] There will also be an appeal against the decision repealing the second instance court, which will force the second instance court to carry out, if possible, the evidence necessary for the decision, instead of repealing the first instance decision and instructing the court of first instance to proceed with a new procedure. For example, in practice, this could not happen in the future, which has already been the case for six years, where the Győr Court of Justice has recently instructed the Veszprém Tribunal to proceed again in the first instance. In the new criminal proceedings, this can only be done because of shortcomings in evidence if the judgment is entirely unfounded or the facts or facts have not been fully established. In other cases, the court of second instance is obliged to attempt to eliminate the unfoundedness, so in such cases it must carry out the necessary proof itself. I would like to point out that the bill before us integrates the rules for gathering classified information to detect and prove criminal offences, which should be considered as one of the most important and bold innovations of the draft. The new regulation, which is partially summarised, eliminates the possibility of losing evidence from the collection of classified information for law enforcement purposes, while providing higher guarantees to prevent abuse. The proposal provides authorities with a new and more effective instrument, but it also protects citizens by preventing the public from collecting confidential information on a specific person for law enforcement purposes for an unlimited period of time. The deadline for this is always maximized and should not exceed 360 days. In view of the fundamental issue, opposition votes will also be necessary for the adoption of this part of the bill, but it is a common goal that the loss of evidence should not lead to the dismissal of the burdened party in the future. In some cases, the courts are forced to absolve guilty persons under the current procedural rules that, based on the unused wiretap and evidence, they know precisely that the crime has been committed by those on the defendant's bench. Most often, the court dismisses the wiretap from the evidence because it was obtained prior to criminal proceedings, and the law enforcement authorities did not immediately report the suspicion of the crime which they would have been obliged to do under the current law. This cannot happen in the new system, because the competent authorities may carry out secret intelligence gathering for law enforcement purposes only within the framework of criminal proceedings, under prosecutor's supervision and in a preparatory procedure, where the risk of loss of evidence is thus excluded. The procedural system established in the proposal also provides for the possibility that, before an investigation is initiated, but already within the framework of criminal proceedings, a kind of prior detection may be used in order to establish or exclude suspicion of criminal offences within a short period of time. In this procedure, only covert or open means which do not suspect a criminal offence will be used. Thus, a new procedural stage is presented in criminal proceedings before the investigation: the preparatory procedure, which, in addition to the prosecution and the investigating authority, may be carried out by the police body carrying out internal crime prevention and investigation tasks, as well as by its counter-terrorism body, in order to gather the information necessary for the decision to order an investigation and which may continue for a limited period of time. The more consistent enforcement of clear liability rules and the division of functions across the whole of the standard text under discussion. The bill clearly states that it is not the duty of your court to prove the charge - indeed, the proof of its own motion ceases - that the prosecution is clearly responsible for the charge. A function-sharing approach also requires the defence to be prepared for court proceedings. As a result of the requirement of preparedness, the proposal, contrary to the current legislation, makes a sharp distinction between the stage of the substantive preparation of the hearing at the beginning of the judicial phase and the administrative measures which may be taken on the basis of the indictment. The aim of the new system, which requires the thorough preparedness of the parties to the proceedings or those conducting it, is to ensure that the content, means and methods of prosecution and defence can be fixed as soon as possible and at the same time through meaningful and focused trial preparation, so that the framework of evidence in the judicial field can be clarified as far as possible at the beginning of the judicial proceedings. In this spirit, the proposal puts the main emphasis on the preparatory meeting, in addition to the written preparation of the hearing. From the point of view of the application of strict criminal policy, I would like to point out that there will be no limit in the future to the imposition of a pre-trial detention measure under the current legislation in the event of criminal proceedings involving a life sentence against the defendant. At the same time, there is a significant change in the bail institution, which is transformed into a means of maintaining criminal supervision and the rules of conduct of detention. The reform of the underling system is also extremely timely; let's face it, communism has become a comedy tradition of being an asshole, now completely unnecessary for decades, in criminal proceedings at first instance negotiations. It is also timely to broaden the possibility of listening to videos, which will now also be possible for investigative authorities. The modern approach of the bill is well indicated by the fact that in the future it will be possible to seize virtual assets such as bitcoin or special forms of electronic money. Finally, allow me to express my thanks to all those involved in codification, all those who have contributed with their knowledge and experience to the preparation of the draft law; the Ministry of Justice for codification work and for having carried out those preliminary consultations far-reachingly and even wider than those required by law, which give hope that Parliament will adopt the new Criminal Procedure Act with the largest possible majority, opposition support, not only with the two-thirds majority but also with a larger majority in the necessary parts. Dear Parliament, In the current situation, the Parliament can only give justice the means to promote more effective, faster prosecution. We believe that this draft contains these instruments, but at the same time it also lays down all constitutional guarantees which guarantee the rights of the accused throughout the criminal proceedings. In view of this, I would ask all factions to support the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-08-4	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-03-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Commissioner of Ministers, I would like to start by saying that if, as a mandatory element of the speech, but now quite delicately formulated, the political ramifications about the government's self-politicisation, the strict criminal policy and the acceleration of cases are decapitated about what the Secretary of State has said, then those arguments can be quite agreed. This is also true of my colleague Gergely Gulyás's speech, not entirely, but largely so. We also agree that it is necessary to create a new law on criminal proceedings, a code. First of all, it's not because it's too old, it's because it's not really good. Nor is it, and this has been a great lesson, I think, to the legislator, because before it came into force, it has undergone so many amendments, which have made its applicability extremely difficult at the time of its entry into force. I am saying that this was a good lesson for the legislator, because since then, as I see it, everyone is paying attention to the fact that the new draft laws should come into force around the end of the parliamentary term or for a month or two after that, because this problem was the cause of the new Be. This was not the case, and before the entry into force, it was free to modify it without any serious consequences, at least at the time. In addition, of course, some amendments that have been necessary in recent years are fortunate if they really appear in a single structure. So what I have to say is that the new Be.'s right to exist on our side is not disputed. I am also pleased that, although Mr Secretary of State - and I say to you, more delicately, my fellow Member Gulyás referred to the fact that the criminal policy of the hard hand, the strict criminal policy, appears here again, and I see that thanks to God, the new Btk. and the new Be. much more so - if we do not look at the level of words, but what is in it - dual-gauge criminal policy is the most visible. [[9.50]] If you look at the new Be., there are a lot of new warranty elements, especially in connection with the secret gathering of information, which has not been part of the Hungarian legal system so far. So I think that we will, of course, have critical remarks and amendments that are very forward-looking in this respect, both the new Btk. and the new Be. What I can say is that in terms of spirituality, you can agree with the direction that this represents. As the Secretary of State has said, and I hope that this example will be sticky for the future, the Government has indeed held substantive five-party discussions, and I must say that unlike some of the five-party parties that I have participated in, this was not from a window, but indeed very many of the proposals that opposition parties have drafted have been incorporated into the legislative text that we have just tabled. We hope that, in accordance with the agreement there, the related, possibly salad law that comes into the House will also feature elements that were part of the five-party process and include certain opposition issues and needs. Since there's a lot going on, I have to say, once again, it's basically eligible. Moreover, what I need to see, and here again I can refer to the proposals and speeches tabled over the last few years, is that many of the elements that we have been pushing for for a long time; but we could say: finally, thank God. For example, in connection with the pre-trial detention, we held a series of meetings of the Committee on Judicial Control subcommittees, and many of the points, many of the proposals that we have made there, are now part of the Be., have now been included, partly earlier. Obviously, if we could support this earlier, we would support it now. In this respect, I will also make an amendment. I sent it anyway, and if it's all true, then it got to the Ministry yesterday, like the Btk here. I am thinking of the amendment to the present proposal, even in the Be. a certain correction. One more thought on this issue of efficiency-timeliness is allowed. I don't have a problem with trying to speed up procedures, just - thank God it's not appearing in Be. again, but now at the parliamentary rhetoric level - the quality of judgment is good if it comes with it. The President of the OBH first, thank God for the first time, but he has now said this sentence in the debate on his report, that it is not only the acceleration of procedures and the timeliness of procedures that is extremely important, but also the creation of quality judgments; that justice should prevail in judgments where appropriate; that judgment should be justified. It is often the reason for the repeals and it has been recalled from the profession that there is a strong expectation of timeliness in the Courts of First Instance that this will generate a series of unfounded judgments. If this expectation is to subside a little and we are also to highlight the criteria of qualitative judgment, then perhaps it does not need to be amended to make fewer repealed judgments. So what I can say is that the government and the OBH have moved too far towards this otherwise appreciated and important aspect. So, of course - and this is supported by the decisions in Strasbourg - the issue of timeliness is important, but it should not fall on the other side of the horse. So these two should be enforced in a balanced way, and what I see is that, since certain guarantees in the new Be. will be strengthened, the Be. you are treating this system of considerations in this way, and I am very, very, very happy about it. I would just like to point out that they were good, and I would like to add one more aspect to the fact that the five-party negotiations have been taking place for a long time, because there is no doubt in the opposition that new provisions may have been included in the new law on criminal proceedings because of how certain politically motivated cases have been dealt with, as my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás referred to here, for example, with regard to red sludge. Otherwise, the fact that the problems encountered in the application of the law are improved and codified by the legislator is a matter of one place and order, only because there has been a lot of criticism in this respect of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the Government, perhaps it is more worthwhile to take as an example politically less motivated or policy-based case, because, in the case at hand, people may still have a bad feeling. But I'm gonna say it again, because, in terms of time, one has preceded the other, so I don't have to get this bad feeling right now as a result of the mention. Which is a general mention of the new Be. I am extremely pleased that the new procedural law strengthens the adversarial elements. Moreover, this has already been tried by the one in force today, and there have been, among other things, a lot of changes to this before the entry into force. I am glad that this direction does not change backwards, but to me, in my view, in a forward-looking direction, because indeed, in a case, the impartiality of a judge can be better ensured, to put it this way, the less his role in the trial, of course, except for the decision now. So when the parties, when the prosecutor, the defense attorney, offer evidence - they are obviously the ones on their side who are obviously interested in the evidence process - and the judge is able to observe and assess them objectively and impartially. I note here that the new element that we will have to mark the evidence and the lawsuit during the preparatory trial, if you will, is not a bad innovation. I only sincerely hope that this will not lead to it - unfortunately, normative elements at Pp will also help this, not here, but I hope, neither will the judicial practice - that this will mean that the judge may refuse to provide further evidence that is necessary in the course of the proceedings. It is obvious that, at the beginning of a trial, you cannot see all the evidence necessary to assess the case, especially in a monstre case. There may still be necessary evidence and reasoned motions for certain witness statements that would be useful for the courts to take into account and then approve. So in the new Pp, I think it's very badly regulated. I hope it's the new Be. it will not motivate the determining judge to do so, because it will in any case lead to the unfoundedness of the case and to unjust judgments. In terms of competence and competence, I would like to ask the Secretary of State one thing; it did not occur to me during the five-party negotiations, just as one reads such a great law from time to time, further questions arise that the category of priority crimes relating to farming will be transferred to the jurisdiction of the court by the new Be. I'd like to ask you, do you have the personnel-related terms for this? Because any such change means that in one place it has reduced workload and capacity, in the other place it increases the same, and the higher we go at court level, the smaller the number, if you will. Is this number available, or does the wallet plan to develop numbers? I also note that you could do this in parallel with the deployment of the seat system, because there will be very serious resources available if you no longer have to pay the sitters, you don't have to give them a job fee. [[10.00]] Where appropriate, some new judicial status may be established. I hope that the government will not use this money for anything else, but for establishing new judicial status. And I also very much hope that this increased case will not be replaced by a proposal to the Parliament, based on the reasons I said yesterday, for a further increase in secretarial powers. Otherwise, the introduction of the underseat system or the restriction of narrow limits is an eligible direction. Indeed - although I am as much as my fellow Member Gulyás, I would not underestimate the work of these people, because many people have done honour and tried to really contribute effectively, but it is a fact that this institution is probably overdue and no longer necessary. I'm saying you can agree with that. Indeed, where there is justification for this, in the case of minors and military criminal proceedings, I agree that this should be maintained. With the strengthening of victims' rights, I can very much agree with the extension of both the right to make a statement and the right to make a motion, and, of course, the extension of the possibilities of the mediation procedure. We've been pushing for this for decades. One leg of this is in Btk., the other part is in Be., but the fact that it is primarily in the interests of the victim, not in matters of very high material gravity, but in matters of small or medium material gravity - and this precedes the state's criminal power - I can agree with that, by the way. Of course, the guarantees mentioned by the Secretary of State are necessary, because, for example, it must be possible to rule out an immoral agreement or any other agreement with similar moral negatives in the administration of justice. I can also agree with the extension of the use of telecommunications devices. Indeed, we are not living in the Stone Age, these new tools must be used, and everyone's work will be facilitated. I would always suggest that, of course, attention should be paid - and so will the subcommittee that I have led, which examines the application of the legislation, which will place emphasis on how the courts will apply it, even in six months' time, in a year's time. For example, at a time when it was introduced that a lawyer could be contacted by fax, say, interrogation of a suspect, there were times when we received the fax message five and two minutes before the interview, and the authorities said that we were actually duly notified. The fact that you couldn't get there by helicopter, by the way, nobody cared. Here, too, attention should be paid to how these telecommunications devices will be used, whether for notification or for witness hearing; stressing that, for example, in the case of a crime committed against minors, this could be an extremely good tool. There arises the dilemma of what precedes the other and to what extent one fundamental right may be limited to the effect of the other; in Hungarian, the fundamental right of the minor, the juvenile, the healthy physical-spirit, the moral development of the child, and otherwise, let us say, the right of charged protection. In other words, it is impossible to confront one another, it is not possible to listen in the presence of one another, which is clearly in the interests of the minor, but, unlike the right to defence, it makes it extremely difficult, and there are even cases where it makes it difficult to condemn. Here, for example, the use of telecommunications devices, when they do not need to be physically in the same room as these parties, can be a solution. So here it is really worth thinking about. I was talking about the prep session. Once again, I would like to emphasise that there is a need to be very careful that this does not lead to unjustified exclusion of evidence. The fact that new evidence can only be invoked in the appeal if it is at least likely that they were unaware of it is also an excellent new provision. There has also been a great deal of talk about it in the five-party, and here I will only briefly address the secret gathering of information, the use of concealed tools. In itself, I'm extremely glad that this is going to be in Be., so that's where you belong. The other - and I say this to my fellow Member Gulyás - is that if they form a regulation on secret information gathering that cannot be called a rule of law, no one should be surprised if the court compensates. We, when this was introduced at the time, protested sharply against it and said that this was not good. Now, as you intend to implement it, I'd like to add a little more guarantees than what's in here, but I can tell you that this is a good way to go. And it is likely that the courts will actually apply it, and they will not compensate, because that was the reason, that was the problem. It hasn't been a problem in the past, it's been a problem since the new regulation was created, and it's been for virtually everything, and it's been gathering data against everyone, against whom it was ordered, and against whom it wasn't, and what it was ordered to do, and what it wasn't. Therefore, no one should be surprised if the court does not wish to apply it in this way. What we also welcome is the temporal modification of the use of concealed tools. We have a proposal to define a little bit more narrowly. We are pleased that legal documents will, as a rule, form part of the case files of the proceedings. The new rule is also good with regard to stockholding data collection, since, in order to clearly exclude the possibility of stockholding data collection, the proposal introduces as a guarantee innovation that, in any case other than the permit, the data obtained for the person not indicated in the permit or for the criminal offence may be used as evidence if, within 30 days, criminal proceedings for the new person or for the new criminal offence have been initiated or if an extension of criminal proceedings has been decided. Here I can at least say that they are really limiting the incredibly wide-ranging collection or data collection normative set of rules that have lived so far. I think that's too much, I'll tell you the truth. I would remain in the position that, for what is authorised and authorized to collect data, these permits may, if necessary, be requested for other purposes in the course of criminal proceedings. Here I think that the interests that are in favour of making sure that people cannot be intercepted and used unduly are more powerful than the fact that a criminal may be fleeing from the prosecution of the crime. Of course, I'll say it again, it's a matter of taste, and I still feel a little too wide, and I'd narrow it down. It is good that the framework for the application of the undercover detective is included, and this is specified in detail in the proposal. It regulates the procedures to be followed in situations of life in which the covert investigator's proceedings require the use of a concealed instrument subject to judicial or prosecutor's authorisation. So, I can only ask from here, my fellow Members, to address the Attorney General, that it would be good for him to try to use this instrument in a state of law, as well as for the police, the investigating authority, because when the undercover detective is used for political purposes, it is not good, and if I understand correctly, it is not in Be. And I don't think you can pass the case in which one of our fellow Members, Dezső Believer, Parliamentary Officer, was finally exonerated, and an undercover detective practically provocatively tried to get him to commit a crime. That's what's unacceptable, that's what's outrageous. That's what I think such thinking should be suppressed even the germs. [[10.10]] Unfortunately, the fact that there are clear rules in Be. is that it does not sometimes prevent the investigating authority, the power, the prosecution from exercising this in an abusive manner, so it seems that there is a need and need to include additional guarantee elements. Among the positives, I would also like to mention this... - and here I refer to the fact that there was a provision that we would have liked to have had, and we were pleased to see that we did not notice that it was already part of the new Be., for example, that it narrowed the case of defamation and defamation to be persecuted to the public, or that, in the case of a private prosecution, the prosecutor represents the proceedings, there is no possibility, by the way, of using the tool system open to him in public prosecution cases, let us say, to kidnap or search, but, in this respect, to act on the same powers and under the same rules as if he were represented by a private individual. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow some criticism, as well as some suggestions. For a long time, we have been pushing for the independence of the prosecuting professional prosecutor to be strengthened. What I am talking about here, part of which concerns Be., part of which is not, but since we talked about discussing with Be. in parallel - and, in good case, voting together - another package of laws, but it can be a part of it, and for me it is not a prestigious issue at all that it appears as an independent motion or as a government motion, the point is that it is somewhere in the legislation. We have tabled a proposal in this regard, by the way. Here's a tougher and softer proposal. The tougher proposal is that no prosecution or indictment can be rejected by a prosecutor. So, in this regard, the prosecuting prosecutor should have just as independent rights, a sovereign right to decide, as let's say, the determining judge. But at least if that's not the case, there is an intermediate solution to ordering the prosecuting prosecutor in writing in such cases. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide the fact that we consider the prosecution's activities to be the worst possible, even considering the time of communism, I can compare it to the first ten to fifteen years, which concerns the consideration of politically motivated cases and the opening of cases. We therefore do not want this process to continue in the same way. Now, if the Attorney General or the head of the Central Investigator's Public Prosecutor's Office gives an order - because he likes it or receives instructions from someone else - that he should be charged with this or not, he will instruct the prosecuting prosecutor, and it will never turn out to be his order. One or two people inside the D.A.'s organization are enough to produce such a function. Maybe if the D.A.'s office had been operating in a state of law, I wouldn't be presenting this proposal today. But today, when it works that way, I think that's justified. Let's see who ordered it. Go through the system. The Attorney General wants you to tell him to do it, write it down. That's all we're asking. I think that this could lead in a number of cases to the fact that these instructions are otherwise lacking. Because, of course, no one's going to accept the ode that he did this. And if he thinks it's perfectly legal, then he'll be happy to accept the possibility of an ode. Another such request is to consider the need to differentiate the rules on the setting-up of pre-trial detentions and to establish professional control of the work of the public defenders. In the former case, since the essential elements of pre-trial detention can be compared to a prison degree, it is extremely unfair to spend, say, two years there and then receive two years of detention, to calculate it as one, or, if, say, three years of detention, to sit down another year, since you have served your sentence in far worse circumstances than the court has ordered. Very rightly, criminal law requires that, let's say, house arrest or an exit ban is considered to be much more than a day's imprisonment in setting up, since there is a significantly less legal disadvantage. Well, then the same thing's true the other way around, isn't it? If we create a significantly greater legal disadvantage with the preliminary than the court then concludes, then it would be worth counting this, so I made a proposal that a factor of 1.2 or 1.4 should be included in the judgment. As regards the control of the professional work of the public defenders, my position is about what the Helsinki Committee represents, I understand, in this respect, that there are serious progress to be made in the forthcoming law of attorneys. It'd be nice if that came in here, so we could at least negotiate with this. If not, at least take these aspects into account in legislation and codification. Finally, I'd like to mention one last thing in the absence of time. I don't think the prosecution's taking over the prosecution's representation from the sub-indictor's office is good. In general, the prosecution has the opportunity to press charges, if it does not wish to do so, to make use of this instrument, and to make a substitute for it, but do not intervene in the proceedings there. That's what I think. We have therefore tabled an amendment that would exclude this. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that we consider the new Be. to be forward-looking and good, we consider it necessary, and we ask you to consider the amendments that we have just proposed. I sincerely hope that we can reach a compromise in this, too, and indeed we can finally create a code that will support not only the parties to government, but also the opposition parties. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-08-6	Thank you. Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker for the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2017-03-08-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Christian Democrats believe it is important that the criminal reform launched by the government, once the substantive right has been consolidated, also lay the procedural law on a solid basis, one that will reflect a real change of perspective. The 19th of the year on the prosecution of criminal proceedings. The law has now been significantly worn out as a result of socio-economic changes and subsequent series of legislative amendments, despite the fact that more than half of the provisions of the Code have already been affected by legislative amendments. As a result, the Be. has lost its uniform character, the internal balance of the law has failed, regulations have in many cases become opaque and difficult to apply in practice. Statistical data show that the average duration of investigations has increased gradually, along with the duration of judicial proceedings. This also supports the social public perception that criminal proceedings are becoming more and more prolonged. It has therefore become an important requirement for decisions in criminal matters to be taken within a reasonable time. In addition to the above, rethinking the rules of criminal proceedings was necessary because Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code was adopted by this House. In view of all this, it has become necessary to create a new procedural law that preserves the traditional values of Hungarian procedural law, but also meets the requirements of modern criminal proceedings and laid down in the Fundamental Law, and also complies with our country's obligations under international conventions, which is why it is intended to be the new Be. be efficient, fast, simple, modern and coherent. [[10.20]] Efficiency and speed mean the new Be. fully and without undue delay, it should be able to enforce the criminal policy intentions set out in the new Btk. Coherence and simplicity are aimed at predictability, clarity, easier application, which has been a long-standing expectation of law enforcement. Keeping in mind the requirement of modernity shows that the old Be. was often not in line with the 21st EDF. with the challenges and expectations of the century, the increasing number and complexity of crime and the higher degree of organised crime. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/13972 by the Minister of Justice The bill presented under number 1 meets the requirements outlined above and meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, its obligations arising from Hungary's membership of international law and the European Union, the criminal policy reform efforts launched by the establishment of a new criminal code, the demands of legal professions based on its experience in the application of the law, the social expectations of the judiciary, in particular the faster, more efficient functioning of the judiciary, and the adoption of fair decisions as a result of criminal proceedings, as well as the changing living conditions of our time. The new Be. it has been established by reviewing the system of guarantees in criminal proceedings, whereby, while consistently enforcing the fundamental right to a fair trial, the real guarantee elements remain and the legal institutions that do not contain the actual content have been ignored. The main objective of the first set of procedural guarantees is to protect the rights of individual procedural actors, to verify the procedures of the authorities in criminal matters and, ultimately, to ensure the legality of criminal proceedings. The other set of procedural guarantees is linked to the credibility of the individual means of proof and procedures as quality assurance. The most concentrated manifestations of procedural guarantees are the principles, which ensure the conformity of the whole procedure with the rule of law. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. placing more emphasis on protecting the interests of victims than at present, i.e. supporting them by all means possible. This means ensuring, on the one hand, that the determining authorities act in the most gentle manner possible against victims and, on the other hand, placing increased emphasis on the issue of victim protection. Victims have a fundamental interest in effective and rapid criminal proceedings, which may give rise to a resolution of the tension between the victim and the defendant, in which the greatest possible return on the harm caused by the crime is ensured. It is also important to ensure that the victim is subject to the procedure, so that he can request, inter alia, information, suggestions and comments. The victim must also have adequate remedies to enforce his rights. Ladies and Gentlemen, With a view to simplifying the procedure of proof, the new Be. allow, in the event that the subjects of the protection do not dispute the facts on which the criminal liability is based, the inclusion of additional evidence may be omitted. The Be. According to the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that there is evidence of significant facts in the application of the rules on criminal and criminal proceedings. A thorough and complete clarification of the facts should be sought in the course of the evidence. The investigation should investigate the crime, the identity of the perpetrator, seek out and provide evidence. The facts must be investigated to the extent that the accuser can decide whether or not to press charges. At the trial, evidence can only cover the facts contained in the charge. In practice, evidence at trial in most cases means a repetition of the investigation, i.e. the court re-interviews the accused and the witnesses, and the written opinion presented during the investigation will also be presented or read. The time between interrogation during the investigation and the interrogation at the trial is usually longer, so the testimony of the interrogated persons is usually smaller or more different from their previous testimony as a result of the necessary fading of memory. The grounds for this need to be clarified by the court, as a result of which interrogated persons tend to maintain their earlier testimony. In many cases, the repetition of evidence is therefore unnecessarily delaying the procedure. The faster conduct and simplification of criminal proceedings is intended to allow for the non-verification of evidence where the defendant and the defenceman agree with the facts of the charge or part of them. Recognition of the facts can also be considered as a form of cooperation between the defendants. In the event that the defendant and the defender do not dispute the facts establishing criminal liability, consideration should be given to the extent to which procedural evidence is to be provided, i.e. whether it is necessary to hold a hearing at all. Where the recognition of facts covers the whole of the facts, the proceedings are synonymous with the absence of a negotiated procedure which is currently regulated. Evidence may also be withheld if the defendant accepts only a certain set of facts, but a confession including guilt is missing. In this case, too, the demonstration procedure can remove significant burdens and concentrate on examining more relevant issues, resulting in the remaining time, more efficient use of resources, a reasonable shortening of the evidence process and a reduction in the costs of criminal proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. broadens the possibility for the burdened person to have an interest in cooperation with the authorities. When assessing any form of cooperation between the burdened and the public authorities, the extent to which cooperation violates the principles of criminal proceedings should not be disregarded. However, the establishment of an appropriate cooperation system on the subject will result in both rapid and full detection of the crime, together with rapid and full criminal prosecution. The new Be. Its provisions have also reviewed the simplified procedures system in order to make it easier to apply them more widely than currently, while ensuring adequate guarantees. The system of simplified procedures is the old Be. Based on this, it is linked to the indictment phase and therefore has no meaningful impact on the conduct of the investigation. That is why it was important to extend the cooperation of the burdened party to the investigation procedure itself. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. will also make it more effective to combat abusive practices in order to reduce unjustified delays in proceedings. The length of criminal proceedings is a major problem, despite the average duration of proceedings involving prosecution, the large increase in police and prosecutors' office and the decrease in registered crimes. For this reason, it is necessary that certain actors in the proceedings exercise their powers which have an impact on the conduct of criminal proceedings in accordance with their intended purpose, while not being able to use them in an abusive manner, in particular to obstruct criminal proceedings. [[10.30]] It should be stressed that in the criminal proceedings system, regulation to prevent abusive practices, Articles I and XXVIII of the Fundamental Law, Article 4 of the Treaty provides for the framework, which sets out the requirement for a fair procedure, the right of protection and the conditions for limiting fundamental rights. The provisions of the Fundamental Law were interpreted by the Constitutional Court in a number of decisions in the context of abusive practice, so the fundamental constitutional considerations developed in the practice of the Constitutional Court were also governed by the new Be. with regard to its work. The Constitutional Court has consistently held that the constitutional obligation of the State against society is to enforce the criminal demand without delay, resulting from the normative content of the rule of law and the constitutional right to a fair trial. This is a constitutional requirement, as is the case, as the length of the judgment of the criminal demand has a detrimental effect on the functioning and authority of the criminal justice system. However, the Constitutional Court stresses that the right to a fair trial is an absolute right against which no other fundamental right or constitutional objective can be considered. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. one of the key objectives of the reform of the redress system. By reviewing the current rules on the basis of Cassation and Reformatorial powers, it narrows down the possibilities of repeal and broadens the scope of reformatorial powers. The establishment and regulation of the redress system is an essential point in Be., which is necessarily and inextricably linked to many other provisions. For example, it is sufficient to refer to the level of organisation of the courts, i.e. the level of courts that operate and the extent to which the redress system is in place, but this also includes the question of the degree of appeal and the manner in which the parties to the proceedings should be granted in the case of simplified procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. establish a regulation that will help to better detect and ensure crime-related property. Crime, crime, apart from anger crimes, and certain other crime groups, is, in fact, an illegal way of earning income, i.e. an illegal business. From practical experience, it can be concluded that although the significant preventive effect of confiscation is well known, asset recovery is currently one of the least effective and least effective elements of criminal liability. One of the main reasons for this is the complete untimely nature of the current form and regulation of property research, since the prosecutor and the investigating authority are fully engaged in the performance of their basic tasks, so that property research only covers the most necessary routine elements, even though the group of perpetrators has long sought to ensure that the property derived from the crime is subject to the provision that the relationship between them can be mapped as difficult as possible. It appears that the withdrawal of illegal property is not a method used sufficiently often and insufficiently, and it also follows that the amount of abstract property is small compared to the amount of wealth obtained illegally. The new law on criminal proceedings therefore makes it more effective and easier for the determining authorities to detect and withdraw proceeds from criminal activities, thereby helping the functioning and protection of the legal economy. The new Be. raises awareness to the perpetrators that it is not worth committing crimes, because the effective deterrent force from crime is not necessarily the penalty of reprimanding the personal leave imposed by the court, however strict it is. In many cases, the most serious consequence is that the action of criminal justice completely deprives the criminal of the meaning of his action, i.e. the concrete tangible profit of the crime. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. in addition to the above, it renews the current system of lay judgment, narrowing the contribution of the sitters to procedures where their presence is a real guarantee. Pursuant to Article 27 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the court shall, unless otherwise provided by law, judge in a Chamber. In the case under (paragraph 2) and in the case and manner defined by the Law, non-professional judges are also involved in the case-law. As a general rule, the Fundamental Law considers social justice to be a rule by the fact that this principle applies independently of the forum acting and not to lay participation, since the procedure of the sittings is only allowed by the Fundamental Law as an additional possibility in exceptional cases, as defined by law. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. When establishing its regulation, particular attention was paid to the right of the defendant to consider his case in court within a reasonable period of time. The defendant may waive the right to trial if his or her protection is adequately ensured. In the event of negotiation, the focus of the evidence will be on the judicial profession, which will allow the prosecution to be simplified and speedier. In many cases, much of the criminal proceedings in our country are unduly prolonged. The slowness of accountability for acts of simple judgment is particularly striking, and there is a further problem that the authorities acting in cases do not take advantage of the possibility of specific procedures ensuring a rapid and effective procedure when they act with a burden on them and admit to it. The right to a rapid procedure is an even more pronounced requirement in the event of the application of coercive measures restricting personal freedom. These obligations are laid down in Article XXVIII of the Fundamental Law. Article 1 (1) and Article IV The requirements set out in Article 3 (3) are essentially identical. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new Be. enhance the possibilities of electronic contact in accordance with the requirements of modern criminal proceedings. These legislative provisions are largely based on the legal and infrastructure foundations of e-administration, but the accelerated development of information technology cannot be ignored. While future technological progress is not foreseen, much can be expected from the government document setting out the direction of development of the information society. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new regulation eliminates the duality of secret information gathering and secret data acquisition and thus the possibility of loss of evidence as a practical reason for inability to demonstrate. Furthermore, it significantly reduces and makes clear that, for the purpose of law enforcement against a specific person, it cannot collect secret information subject to judicial authorisation for an absolute period of time, with a maximum time limit in all cases. The procedural system established in the proposal provides for the possibility of using a kind of preliminary detection within a short period of time before an investigation is initiated, but already within the framework of criminal proceedings, in order to establish or exclude suspicions of criminal offences. [[10.40]] This means that there is a new procedural stage in criminal proceedings before the investigation, the so-called preparatory procedure, which, in addition to the prosecution and the investigating authority, may be carried out by the police's body performing internal crime prevention and detection tasks and by its counter-terrorism body in order to gather the information necessary for the decision to order an investigation and which may continue for a limited period of time. The bill shows as a novelty among the rules of detention that this coercive measure can also be applied in the event of an act of action if the identity of the perpetrator cannot be established. What is also new is that not only in the event of a likelihood of arrest, but also in the case of other coercion measures, there may be a place for ordering detention. The name of the pre-trial arrest shall be changed to an arrest in order to specify more precisely the measure. The proposal includes criminal surveillance as a realistic and real alternative to arrest, including house arrest, removal bans, criminal bans and application obligations, which are also regulated in Be. Compared to the current legislation, the bail institution is significantly modified, which is transformed into a means of keeping criminal supervision and the rules of conduct of detention in the system of the proposal. This will significantly increase and simplify the possibility of applying bail. A further major innovation in the proposal is to establish a legal basis for the management of seized and closed assets, creating a rule environment in which assets to satisfy the assets to satisfy the assets to satisfy the assets will not lose their value during a long period of criminal proceedings. In this spirit, the proposal also introduces the possibility of redemption of seized and sealed assets. The rule for enforcing the interests of victims is that in the event of a conditional prosecutor's suspension, except for a narrow exception, it will be compulsory to compensate for the damage or restore the original state. The proposal significantly simplifies the system of formal and substantive provisions against the indictment while maintaining guarantees. The proposal regulates the defendant's presence in negotiations among the persons present at the hearing. The new solution breaks with the previous regulation and provides a wide range of possibilities for the defendant to exercise his right to trial after the prosecution and acknowledges, on the other hand, that he may waive that right in any case, provided that there is no need for the defendant's personal presence in order to prove it. Unlike the legislation in force, the proposal separates the preparation of the hearing sharply from the administrative measures which may be taken on the basis of the indictment at the beginning of the judicial phase. The aim of the new system is to ensure that the content, means and methods of prosecution and defence are recorded as soon as possible and at the same time through meaningful and focused trial preparation, so that the framework of evidence carried out at the judicial stage is clarified as far as possible at the beginning of the judicial proceedings. In this spirit, the proposal, in addition to the written preparation of the hearing, puts the main emphasis on the preparatory meeting, which, in addition to the forms of cooperation on the subject, is also a priority place for the concentration of evidence of negotiation, i.e. in addition to judicial control, the parties will have the opportunity to set out the basic directions for their demonstration. The proposal also simplifies the rules for continuing negotiations by presenting and repeating, in future, the substance of the previous negotiating material only for a motion, if more than 6 months have elapsed since the previous hearing. It is new that, according to the proposal, new evidence in the appeal will only be invoked if the party at least suspects that it has become aware of it after the publication of the first instance decision. At the same time, reference may be made to the motions for proof put forward in the first instance but rejected there. The proposal renames the non-negotiation procedure and refers to criminal proceedings. The proposal regulates the replacement private procedure as a separate procedure in a separate chapter, so that it is easy to understand, coherent, without prejudice to claim enforcement. The proposal introduces new rules in the system of separate procedures in order to rethink the ex post asset recovery procedure and the rules of the negotiation procedure. The proposal does not, in principle, exclude the rules of the special procedure for minors in the procedure for border-locking offences. With simplified review procedures introduced by the proposal, simplified rules can remedy the errors or shortcomings of the final decision where they arise only on ancillary issues. The proposal introduces split-structure compensation, which means two procedures. It includes a simplified tariff compensation procedure and an indemnification suit. If the former procedure is chosen, an agreement will be reached between the claimant and the Hungarian State without legal proceedings, after which there will be no further enforcement of claims. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, KDNP supports the bill; please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-08-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, Mr Gábor Staudt and Mr Csaba Gyüre. I'll give the floor to Gábor Staudt first. Here you go.
u2017-03-08-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There is a really important proposal ahead of us, and I would like to join the previous speakers in the fact that the negotiations, thank God, have taken place through several circles of experts. So I would like to point out to Mr Secretary of State that this is certainly an example to follow, and in the future, although we are running out of codes now, but also the minor amendments to the law that concern an important subject are worth having a similar consultation. In particular, because it appeared that proposals that were acceptable, which focused attention on real problems or issues that were not dealt with, could also be incorporated in many cases, and we know that it takes time to do so, it is not always possible for Parliament to do so when a proposal is submitted. We made the first proposals, the first proposals, at the beginning of last summer, in the stage of social consultation. I have to say that, in my memory, there was a relatively tighter time limit for social consultation, so we were able to put this proposal together at the last minute, but at least one or two of those proposals could be said to have been included. For example, to say one thing that seems small, but important, that if someone is being prosecuted, then the new draft requires the prosecution to inform the person against whom this is happening. At the moment, this is happening by getting a piece of paper from the court, and a lot of times the press finds out that, let's just say, he's been indicted in a more serious or less serious case. I have to say that in many cases this has been able to produce rather interesting, innocuous cases when someone, say, learned from a journalist's phone or interest what the prosecution has decided against him. I must also say that these negotiations, as I have said, have been conducted at both political and expert level, and that the submission of this proposal has been put forward for this year, so that the Ministry has taken the opposition proposals into account, and it is appropriate and forward-looking, if these positive progress is, in any case, made here in Parliament. [[10.50]] The proposal is trying to find answers to general problems, and in many cases this direction is encouraging. We will see, of course, what this will mean in the application of the law. Obviously, there's nothing to talk about. There's a lot that's been said here before me. What I would like to underline, however, is the rethink of repeal practices, whether the introduction of appeals in the case of annulments or the pression of the second-degree courts to proceed with the procedures which they believe have been omitted. In many cases, and this was also mentioned in the Curia's report a few years ago regarding the civil case, and then it appeared in the criminal case when they were examined, that in many cases the Curia saw perfectly that these repeals were made instead of the substantive judgment, which is obviously to be changed in the future. The Mansion has fewer means than the legislator. We are very pleased that this principle, which has been said many times in the past, is finally put into practice by the legislator in the new law. Then, pointing out one or two points, it was partially included so that the victim's place of residence could also be a matter of jurisdiction if the prosecutor prosecuted there. We still miss the fact that, in the case of a private accuser, a substitute private accused, it is not clear whether this may be the case, whether in this case it is the powers of the prosecutor, so whether the private accused, a substitute private accused, in this case, is offended by the fact that he is prosecuting where he lives. We will present an amendment to this. Of course, there are other ways to do this, but we would like to draw attention to this. Another point that I think may also be important is that the two-hour subpoena for lawyers is rather short. In many cases, of course, it is possible, in many cases it is in the interests of the person subject to other proceedings and of the lawyer, if he can make it happen, but if he can't solve this, then the fine is a serious punishment. We will also propose an amendment to this in order to at least avoid the possibility of fines if the two hours cannot be held or almost can be resolved by helicopter; I do not want to introduce policy on who can take helicopters in this country. Even lawyers can't do that when they're working. Another important point could be 118 and 271. In paragraph 2 of this Article, when, on the one hand, a coercive measure or even a production may be taken, in addition to the fact that, if it is very important, it must be done at any time. But when to narrow the base case, it is also a very important question, as I often do not even say that it is abused, because if the law says, let's say, that a witness can be booked at 6:00 a.m., then it is not possible to say that it is abusive if half the police or the prosecutor's office withdraws by 6:00 a.m. But if we say that this should be from 8:00 a.m. to 24:00 a.m., and as far as production is concerned, this could happen to witnesses if they didn't show up, so we're going to suggest too wide a time frame, and we're going to suggest narrowing it down, because the authority understands that we can go from 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. without any particular reason. If there is a reason, then, of course, at night, that is not a problem, obviously there can be an explanation, but that should not be the rule. It was very important for us, and we were also promised by the Secretary of State, when we amended the related laws, that the issue of criminal costs could come in. We raised it several times, and earlier we were told that when this law comes before the Parliament, we can talk about it in a package. It is a very important case that in many cases, which we see in the media, there are also some that are not, when the unsub has the property to seize, by the time the case is brought to justice, whether it is a civil or criminal court, but there will be nothing left, because the state will take everything away from criminal costs. This is very unfair, if, by the way, tens of millions of forints were seized from the unsub property assets and assets. The state is obliged somewhere to protect its citizens, since it is carrying a monopoly on violence. And if you can't protect him after that, then at least do it by waiting for the criminal costs, or by collecting it from the perpetrator in twenty to thirty years, bit by bit, from a prison demand or in any way you can. If you cannot recover it, it is better for the State to bear its responsibility than for the otherwise exhausted or victim's family members to whom compensation has been awarded. We look forward to how this can be resolved, but any amendments point forward to the current system. At the moment, even with a ministerial license, it is not possible to deviate from the order of satisfaction. I would add that we have also submitted budget amendments every year - this is a bit of a minor deviation, but on the same subject - that it would not be from the devil, either, if it were planned by the Ministry of Justice, and I think it would be approved by the government to have a framework, and now we do not talk about large amounts of money compared to the Hungarian budget, but let us define a framework on which we can quasi-submit claims if someone cannot collect the compensation awarded in any way, even this change of rank does not help, and it can be judged to a certain extent which needs are the most reasonable and the state would like to provide some satisfaction in this. Obviously, this could be the first round of a top-down budget line. We hope that this will happen someday. This would be very helpful to those who suffer a crime and cannot claim any compensation. It is also a pleasure that arrest and current house arrest, the terms of the legal institution regulated by law, and the conditions of the forced measures generally try to be more taxative and predictable. It's a rule of law demand. Nor should it be forgotten, as has already been said, that technology is developing, and a tracking device, a GPS tracking device, if one cannot leave his own home, his own garden, is a significant coercive measure that can significantly prevent him from leaving this area, obviously controlled by tracing. And what is very important is that we do not burden the capacity of prisons, nor do taxpayers have to pay thousands of forints a day. So I must say that the benefits of this must be taken advantage of. Not to mention that prison socialization does not have to be started by people who may not end up in prison, but other criminal targets are available. But I would also stress the budgetary advantages of the construction. It was gratifying that the right to complain would partly come back in cases where the complainant was not the victim, although only partially. Obviously, the small things should also be welcomed, you could say, but this is not yet complete, especially with no requirement that, let's say, the complaints made by public figures and Members of Parliament should be dealt with separately. Otherwise, this would not be justified if we gave the right of complaint to all those who report it, but if we no longer give it in full, at least those who need to supervise public money or control the functioning of the government, were sent to democratic institutions, or even to the local governments for that reason, to be elected by the voters, they could at least be able to make a full complaint, because the public money is a prominent guardian of a Member of Parliament or a representative of the local government and receives his mandate for this. [[11.00]] The fact that you can complain against the rejection of the complaint, say, to a Member of Parliament, is obviously a step forward, but compared to the old system, which was abolished by Fidesz, when this could be done freely, even against the termination of the investigation, is unfortunately far from it. In addition, in many cases the investigation is ordered by the D.A.'s office, but for reasons that have been the case, and yet, even after years of investigation, it is rejected. In these cases, the right to complain will not live in the same way that it hasn't lived in a few years. It would be good to have the old rules back on that, too. And then, which only partially affects this law, but the course of prosecution is very much, that's trial attorney's independence. I have also said this several times in this Parliament myself, but I was not alone in saying that prosecutors should be given more freedom in the matter in which they act. They will decide whether they wish to appeal, not to appeal, want to appeal for aggravate or, where appropriate, to appeal for relief; they may remember this, for example, in the case of the wine farmer. Obviously, the D.A. can see all the circumstances of the case. The negotiator's there, the negotiator's got the most insight into the case. If he makes his professional decision and can override it at any level by a senior prosecutor, then, in fact, he can have a very easy say in politics or a system of professional invisibility. This is not good at all; especially if we measure the remuneration of prosecutors to judges, we expect the same independent work and the same professional skills. It cannot be relied upon that a prosecutor is unable to judge if he has already been appointed and is in fact covered by the same remuneration as the judge. In fact, when you look at the rewards, they even beat the judges, unfortunately, I add, and here I am not sorry for the benefits from the prosecutors, but rather the judges, but I have only noted this in parentheses. Well, they have to be able to judge, and don't let a superior prosecutor decide what to make of the case. The same is true of the indictment or not of the indictment; or, if at least he decides, and I would join Gergely Bárándy in this, he said, if I remember correctly, that at least there should be a record of it in writing. By the way, I'm against you ordering it, but if you're gonna order it, you're gonna take responsibility with your little smack and your signature that it was me. And once it's accounted for, we'll see who gave the order. Then we are also pleased that the rights of victims are more pronounced. True, I agree with this, too, that the rights of the victim and the interests of the victim can in many cases prevent the state's criminal needs. There are acts in which, if the victim says thank you very much, I have received financial and moral compensation, I would move on from this, I can see on the unsub that he really regrets it, and I accept it as an insult, there are cases where the state has secondary criminal claims compared to this. Obviously, there are some where they don't, but what I see is that in many cases the system still has a bit of a socialist attitude for prosecutors and prosecutors, even though we've left the regime behind for almost 30 years now; that is, the state's criminal demand is the first. If the victim doesn't want to punish the perpetrator in a petty act, he sees that he's morally, financially, otherwise the whole case is a bagatel, and takes more energy than it's worth, the state's criminal claim is minimal, either on principle or for statistics, or I don't know why, I think, because of the bad mentality, I can't practically imagine anything else here, these cases are still going through. It would be nice to have the D.A.'s office in mentality a little bit of the new, a XXI. We could steer him in a hundredth direction. I must say that this law on criminal proceedings may be a means of doing so. That's all I wanted to tell you. Many things could have been highlighted, my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, will do so, and, of course, we are still waiting for the legislative package, which was promised by the Secretary of State, and the debate on the amendments will obviously continue at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-08-10	Thank you very much. Congressman Gyure is next. Here you go.
u2017-03-08-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Everyone has already talked about social consultation and the five-party dialogue. I would also like to say a thought in this regard. We've obviously missed this for a very long time. On the part of the two-thirds majority, while the two-thirds were in place, it was possible to carry everything through force, and the five-party negotiations failed. Unfortunately, we have also seen very often that even social discussions have been cancelled or these discussions have been false. Perhaps the most fundamental example of this was the debate of the Fundamental Law when there was both a social and a five-party debate. There was a case-by-case committee preparing the Fundamental Law and constitution with the participation of all parliamentary parties. There's a concept. Then when he got in here, it was thrown away, and a completely different one, supposedly, came in on someone's laptop. Anyway, old story, I wouldn't say that again, we've heard it a lot. So this kind of perverse social consultation took place. Now, in this case, thank God, no; it was a serious social consultation, and indeed the organisations that the government considers to be its own opposition were also asked. What is important, though I note, is that criminal proceedings are obviously a law in which political considerations do not apply as much as they do in a Constitution, a Fundamental Law. So there was no need for major political debates here. Although I remember that in the previous term there were serious debates about jurisdiction in order to allow the Attorney General or the President of the OBH, where appropriate, to move matters elsewhere. This caused serious disputes at the time. I think that this Code of Criminal Procedure is now far from the basis for such political debates. That is why I think that this is why there has been such a wide-ranging professional debate, as has been the case. The need for a new Code of Criminal Procedure has already been raised and several people have been affected. What I've seen is I've been trying to find out what the lawyers think about this, how the opinions have been divided. Some have made a clear statement that there is a need for a new Be, others say that there is no need for a new Be. Mr Secretary of State explained in detail why it was necessary that 89 laws were amended by the Constitutional Court decisions, that the Code of Criminal Procedure had been changed in 1809 places, which was not that old in fact. After all, if we consider that what was first adopted in 1896 was in force for 50 years, this was a very good time, and it was probably a well-made law, then we say that the current law was not a good law if it understood so many amendments. We could say that it would be necessary to replace it then, but obviously, by having been modified in so many places, it was already outlined from practical experience that this Code of Criminal Procedure, as amended in 1809, could be good or close to what we consider to be very good. Obviously, it's a question of law whether or not to become a new Be. or not. It was obvious here that there was a legislative intention to become a new Be. There's a new civil order, a new Ptk. There's got to be a new law in this, too. That is acceptable, and I believe that all the numbers we have mentioned here are 1809 amendments, we say that yes, it can indeed be justified to make this new one. Then, if the old one has been changed in 1809 places, is it necessary to throw it away or reject it? Obviously, there's no need, but you have to try to keep the things that were good and reject those that weren't good. [[11.10]] From this point of view, it may be good that the former law has been amended in so many places, and now it will be united. We see that, obviously, the principles in criminal proceedings cannot be changed or changed very much. However, it was raised as a question, and especially those who dealt with criminal proceedings at scientific level criticized the prepared draft in this respect that several principles had not been included in the Criminal Procedure Act. However, these principles are clearly set out in the Fundamental Law. Such are judicial independence, the exclusive submission of judges to the law, the directness, publicity of the hearing, the principle of orality, the right to appeal. These are therefore fundamental rights which are enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and it would indeed be completely unnecessary for them to appear again and be repeated. Otherwise, the other principles, which are not included in the Fundamental Law, but which are necessary, will be drawn up in part in the preamble and in part in the first part. Obviously, there's no big change in these. The need to establish the truth is clear already in the preamble, but it is confirmed by the law, the 11th. § also prioritises the need to establish the truth. What we write down and what will prevail in the experience is obviously a completely different matter. When people talk about the fact that, where appropriate, justice is not being served, but is being served, there is obviously doubt about its effectiveness. Although it is a fact that the law will try to strengthen in detail the ability of the judicial elements to function better, the judge will have greater independence. Perhaps the less work you do, because you don't have investigative duties, but you're merely collapsing what the prosecution and the defense are saying, only assessing the evidence. So his valuable working time is released, because he doesn't have to deal with being involved in the investigation, think about it, figure it out, and that's why he won't be overturned because he can't be dismissed, so he can't get the case back to him. For Jobbik, it is very important that we, Jobbik, have always said that we have made it clear since we are here in Parliament that we are party to order. The party of order also suggests and has always suggested that we are in favour of the hard-hand policy of criminals. It was very important that liberal principles not be able to pass the new law on criminal proceedings, on the basis of which we say that the balance will be shifted and that the rights will protect the rights of the accused, of the perpetrator in criminal proceedings, rather than the truth being revealed. So this is a very important aspect, and obviously the most fundamental interest of society, is that anyone who has committed a crime will be punished most effectively and quickly. So we were afraid not to go in such a direction, but we can see that there is no deviation in that direction, and this is certainly to be welcomed. To take an example, which, I think, is shocking to everyone, I am referring to the Breivik case in Norway, which is also the failure of Norwegian criminal proceedings, I think. A person who is responsible for the murder of 77 people will get away with 21 years in prison. Under what circumstances, it is a completely different question, because it is not a matter of prosecution. But I would add with a half sentence that, at least according to media reports, Breivik would have launched a hunger strike because he did not have the latest and the most modern PlayStation within the prison walls. I have given this example in order not to fall on the other side of the horse and to implement a criminal policy in which more rights are placed on the side of criminals. We have great faith in him, and this will also be demonstrated by the practice of maintaining the possibility that those who have committed crimes will be punished within a reasonable period of time. An interesting change of structure, which can be observed in the new bill of criminal proceedings. We see that civil order and now criminal proceedings will be divided into two stages, and the same is true of the investigative procedure. We'll have the evidence collected in the investigative process, and then, when we have the suspect's identity, there'll be a different kind of procedure. Similarly, there will be this duality at the judicial stage, there will be the preparatory phase of the trial and there will be, in fact, the further negotiation phase. In the first part, it is very important that the foreseeable structure of criminal proceedings is established when the evidence procedures are presented as to who would like to take the evidence procedure. If I have already drawn a parallel to the civil procedure - and my colleague Bárándy also spoke of it in parallel - it is very important that we do not make the mistake that we believe was made in the civil order. There, in the first stage, there is the opportunity for any party to come forward with further evidence. After all, we know that not only in criminal proceedings, but also at any time during civil proceedings, there may be new evidence at the stage of the proceedings that, let us say, and then a witness will give in the second stage, and that it is no longer possible to take evidence because there was no motion in the first stage. Obviously, a fact we don't know yet cannot be made. However, it is right when this law already says that it cannot rely on new evidence in the second instance procedure that has already been known by either party at the stage of the first instance procedure, unless it has not been made aware of it before the judgment at first instance has been delivered. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Looks like my time is up, so thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-08-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we have the opinion of the LMP. Her lead speaker is Mrs Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2017-03-08-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, March 8th, Women's Day, today is a day to express respect and respect for women. On this day, I consider it particularly important to focus, in particular, on the extremely serious social problem of domestic or interpersonal violence within the framework of this proposal, in the prevention, reduction and long-term management of which criminal and criminal proceedings are ultimately absolutely unavoidable, since criminal law or criminal measures are best suited to eliminate the abuse situation immediately or as soon as possible. This week's eighth birthday is celebrated by the May Other Politics, our guiding thread is that we must pay particular attention to social groups whose ability to assert interest is weaker. One of the most important indicators of democracy is how the public interacts with social groups with a lower level of advocacy. Today, Women's Day, is about drawing attention to the enormous role of women in society, but also to their vulnerability and defencelessness; to the fact that, in vain, the state will ensure equality of rights for us, if this continues to mean equality of opportunity and protection against all forms of violence. The women's day should therefore be among the walls of the Parliament a voice of thousands of cry for help to raise our voice against violence against women, domestic violence, sexual harassment at work and all other manifestations of violence against women, for the benefit of victims who are still not adequately protected by the law. Let us see what the new Code of Criminal Procedure brings in this regard. The proposal does not substantially alter the nature of the legal institution of distance. While it is an important change that distance can no longer be imposed only on the victim, it is also possible for a person to remain away from to ensure the objective pursued by the coercive measure. It therefore appears that the institution of detention would be extended to the general objective of reducing the number of arrests according to European trends and, indeed, limiting them only to the most necessary cases. [[11.20]] That's okay with us, although we're a little surprised that the government is suggesting this, because we haven't really known you from that perspective in the last seven years. Obviously, in the context of this trend change, it is also possible to extend the minimum period of retention to 4 months and to extend it again by 4 months. We also support this and, of course, the fact that the new code generally streamlines the rules on distance and aligns it with the relevant legal institutions. It is also positive that the proposal explicitly states that the victim should be informed of the imposition and termination of detention. It is also positive that, if there are no legal conditions for the detention of criminal proceedings, the court should inform the victim of the possibility of requesting civil protection, and even, with the consent of the victim, it may act in this direction itself. In principle, we consider it a good option to set bail in the event of detention, but bail may be the same as fine: it is often paid or lost by the victim if the perpetrator violates the restraining order. We would therefore consider it necessary for the court to examine whether the defendant does not withdraw material assets by paying bail from the victim or from a relative of the victim, and if so, then bail cannot be set. Despite the above positives, in many respects we still consider the rules on the prosecution of detention to be incomplete. Without the need for completeness, I would like to draw your attention to a few. On the one hand, abusers are often held in check by abusers with threats to the common child or other relatives. It's a sad fact. It should be made clear that in these cases, too, there is protection in the form of restraining, because this does not follow the text of the Code in its current state. The other point I would like to point out is that we consider that there is no sufficient legal argument that, during the course of the proceedings before the court, the victim can no longer exercise his right to initiate a restraining order. In fact, abusers often begin to increase pressure and threat when they see that they cannot get away with it. If there are enough reasons before the indictment, then in the case of the defendant on parole, the same reason may be increased during the course of court proceedings. If we read the presentation, we see that instead of OCD, it will also be possible to impose a restraining order in accordance with the text, although the circumstances giving rise to prior OCD are, in legal terms, completely different from the circumstances giving rise to withdrawal. These two things have nothing to do with each other, unless, of course, abuse is considered to be an otherwise incurable disease, by the way, mistakenly. Putting such a rule into the codex, we see that it only strengthens this misconception. Someone either needs to be treated or not. However, it is clear that no one has the right to abuse anyone else, even if he has a medical condition that requires psychiatric treatment. In the event of a breach of the restraining order or of the rules of conduct of the restraining order, we are of the opinion that there should be no law enforcement, as I have already mentioned, no bail if the loss of the victim would be a loss, for example, of child support. The reasons for the proposal include a well-known step-by-step approach to the rule of law in terms of distance. As far as we know, on many occasions the profession has indicated that this is inadequate, ineffective and unprofessional. Those who violate the restraining order, who commit sexual assault, are extremely dangerous people. If we were to issue a sufficient amount of restraining order in Hungary, it could be demonstrated in particular, but it can only be shown from the acts of the abuser, ex-partners, that those who are most prone to either murder or kill their ex-partner or their child. An abuser who does not shy away from violating a restraining order against him, even if he knows that it can lead to different sanctions, is obviously far more dangerous than a man who honors his standards of restraint. International legislative, law enforcement and victimical and victimical experience is consistent that the only procedure to facilitate the safety of victims is the detention of abusers who violate detention. Although the principle of graduality is generally justified in criminal proceedings, it should not, however, be at the expense of the safety of victims by ignoring the real danger of a stalker and abuser who clearly does not care about the consequences. Dear Parliament, Since its establishment, the LMP has stressed that the state's criminal policy should never be unilateral. In addition to the search and punishment of the perpetrators, the state must pay at least as much attention to the victims. In view of this, the new Code is forward-looking in its efforts to improve the protection of victims' interests. It is particularly welcome, for example, that, in accordance with our legal obligations in the EU, those who have suffered psychological harm will finally be able to expect injury rights. We consider this to be an important step forward. It is also important that the proposal also shows that there is equalisation of the chances of those who are disadvantaged in view of their advocacy limits. However, we have a lack of sense of so-called special treatment in a number of respects. These are the ones I'd like to introduce you to. On the one hand, according to the bill, special treatment may, for example, be based on the personal characteristics of the victim and on the nature and circumstances of the action subject to the proceedings. However, among the personal features here, the bill highlights only age and the mental, physical and health status of the person concerned, and ignores the list of additional personal characteristics already known from EU law, which includes gender, gender identity or its expression, race, ethnicum, religion, sexual orientation, communication difficulties, nationality and residence. Similarly, we do not believe that the nature of the act is the basis for additional protection. There is a painful lack of violence or hate crimes between relatives also required under EU law. It is proposed that a person requiring special treatment may reject the determination of special treatment or certain measures falling within the scope of special treatment. In view of the fact that the claimability of persons requiring special treatment is particularly low, there is a particular risk that, in the absence of adequate information or at the pressure of the authorities, the determination of special treatment or certain specific measures may be refused. So what we have seen in the draft for social consultation is that, in order to avoid violations of the rights, it has been stipulated that the case files of the procedure should clearly show that the rejection took place after proper information and warning, which we no longer see in the present proposal, so somewhere in the meantime this has been removed from the proposal, which, in our view, should have been confirmed, so this was good as it was in the version for social consultation. It is precisely the fact that the information and warning given to those involved in criminal proceedings are often rough, difficult to understand, and no more than mere formality. In our view, it would therefore be appropriate to record the education and warning in an audiovisual manner in order to ensure that their conformity can be verified at a later stage. As far as hate crimes are concerned: according to professional signals, one of the biggest problems is the so-called under-rating, i.e. when the proceedings are not due to the right facts, but rather to a milder crime, such as violence against members of the community, because of abuse, defamation or easy assault. The correction of the incorrect classification is prevented by the fact that, according to the current case law, the victim cannot seek redress for the legal classification of the criminal offence by the investigating authority during the investigation and, moreover, because of the abolition of complaints against omission, the scope of remedies is further reduced. The incorrect legal classification used in the investigation may, for example, result in hate crimes, in the fact that the investigating authority simply does not take the investigative steps necessary to establish and prove the motivation that constitutes a factor in the facts and that the special rules of jurisdiction do not apply, and therefore the possibility of a professional investigation is reduced. Even though the victim makes a motion for the correct classification of the act, neither the current Be. nor the bill establishes any obligations for the assessment of the victim's motions. We see that it is absolutely necessary to change that. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of their limitations on enforcement, let me evaluate this new bill of criminal proceedings, both through the glasses of all of us and of society. First of all, I would like to stress that we very much do not consider the elements of the proposal that are against the social embeddedness of criminal proceedings to be correct and good. To clarify this, I would like to highlight two examples. One is that, contrary to the law in force, the bill does not ensure that civil society organisations participate in procedures in which victims cannot be accurately identified, a larger group of individuals should be considered. This is a very serious step backwards. [[11.30]] The dogmatic argument raised in the explanatory statement of the proposal is, I quote, that, in the absence of a specific victim, there can be no victim representation, so this is the case in the explanatory memorandum, but this does not preclude the participation of public benefit NGOs in the procedure by other means. For example, it should not be insured as a victim, but as a victim. This solution was also proposed in the preparatory work prepared by experts requested by the Ministry of Justice. We read that, I quote, in the case of unknown victims, it is therefore considered that the public benefit organization is the law on criminal proceedings, the Ket. Like your solution, you have a direct victim status or Be. 55. As in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, it grants the right to exercise the rights of victims. So that's what was in the expert material. The LMP considers it unacceptable, in full compliance with the proposal of the civil society organisations concerned, to ultimately reduce the rights of civil society organisations on the basis of dogmatic considerations, even though we clearly see it, and it is also apparent from the expertise that it would be possible to achieve a scientifically acceptable solution that does not restrict the possibilities offered by the law in force. This is what we are asking for to be restored in the current proposal. The other thing I would like to point out is that we also have a very serious concern about cutting down sitting judgery. On the basis of the proposal, there would be a narrowing of sitting-downs to juveniles and military prosecutions. At present, in the first instance, he is sitting in a district court for more serious crimes punishable by imprisonment of more than 8 years and in every first instance council. This is a smaller part of all criminal cases by number, but a more important part of their importance. We find it embarrassing, both for the government and for the judiciary, that the participation of lay judgment required by the Fundamental Law, which is particularly useful in the social control of the case-law, is to be dealt with with with with so much of the present text that it virtually eliminates it in the majority of cases. This is typically the question, my honourable members of the Government, where it should have stepped out of the legal preparation of the Criminal Procedure Act and conducted a regular social consultation on the reform of sitting judges. Because, in our view, we should not put an end to this institution, but rather breathe life into it. Sitting would be a very useful tool, for example, to involve local society in judicial control, if the locals could actually be involved, put into tender, and the responsibility of the judge and the sitter would be more divided than at present. So, overall, we see that there is much more need for a reform here, but we regard it as particularly harmful and we cannot support it in any way, in the manner proposed by the government. Dear House, The May Other is a fundamental pillar of the identity of Politics is anti-corruption. Looking back sadly over the last 27 years of the spread and theft of Hungary, in the interest of future generations, the only way to go is if the Code of Criminal Procedure is to focus on anti-corruption; if certain cases cannot be embezzled; if the so-called accountability is not only the sound part of the current opponent's electoral program, but also the hard reality that can be realized in our everyday lives. The results of the prosecution are indeed positive: 97.3% in 2015, 96.6 percent in 2014, 96.4 percent before that, 95.9 percent in 12, but let's look behind the numbers for a moment. Typically, corruption cases have remained outside of this, and not only is the latency high in this circle, but also the inactivity of the D.A.'s office. Simply, cases do not go to prosecution, and often they do not go to investigative stages. I could tell you a lot about this from the opposition. In recent years, countless reports of LMP have suffered from this wiener. At a place where unauthorized advantage can become a norm, and citizens have every reason to believe that nothing is what it seems. Each year, a huge proportion of the central budget flows through corruption channels. Over the last quarter of a century, two-and-a-half times the amount of government debt has flown out to offshore companies. The lack of unpaid taxes, the cost of corruption on Community investment, is indeed painfully lacking in development resources, education, health care, wages, the breakdown of the police or the nature conservation system. In a country where no real responsibility has been established for 27 years, something is working wrong in that system. And that law on criminal proceedings should be an antidote. So we need to talk about this right now. The reason I'm talking about this right now is because this law would be capable of changing this sad situation. In recent years, we have put down countless anti-corruption proposals on the table, for example, to allow complaints in cases of corruption, but also in cases of environmental degradation, not just for victims, which, let's say, these crimes are typically not. It would be essential to have adequate material and procedural means in the hands of citizens in cases of corruption, in cases of breaches of public or national property management, or in the case of acts or omissions which harm or threaten life, physical integrity or even natural elements. We miss these instruments in the current code. In this respect, although the proposal contains a narrowly positive change, what we see is that the complainant's general right to complain against rejection of the complaint would be restored. However, in our view, it would be justified not only to reject the complaint but also to terminate and suspend the investigation. So we miss this and that is what we want to see in this text. It goes beyond the current debate, but in view of the rigidly hierarchyd prosecutor's organisation of the Soviet type, it would be more than justified to establish a investigative institution, who would be judges within the framework of the judiciary, who would perform the most important prosecutorial functions, such as investigation and prosecution, in relation to criminal offences committed by prosecutors or persons of interest, organisations and other violations. It is also not a purely criminal procedural proposal, but, in the light of what we have just said, we believe that it would be necessary to extend the public interest protection tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to strengthen the watchdog function of media and press products, i.e. that the prosecutor's office examines ex officio evidence of acts and omissions in investigative reports of media service providers and press products and informs the public of their results on a regular basis. We think this is the 21st. It'd be a start in the first century. In the case of corruption, the LMP would also consider it necessary to have a greater public prosecution, to make it easy to see that something is happening, or if nothing is happening, it should appear that way. The range of personal data in the public interest should be extended, not only for statistical purposes, but also for meaningful publicity on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, The Code of Criminal Procedure is of particular importance in the legal system not only for the legal professions concerned but also for each citizen. A fundamental social need is the timely completion of proceedings and the effective functioning of criminal justice. Society has a perfectly legitimate expectation that the perpetrators of crime will be held accountable without exception, at the expense of society, for a fair trial. At the same time, it is at least as important for the State to say more than ever that it stands by the injured party. Social support will only be behind the code when both aspects are met if everyone can finally feel that this is not a country without consequences, from the victim of the violence in the relationship, to the victim of the hate crime, to the extent that the citizen is apathetic to corruption. We consider it necessary to amend the Code in this direction. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2017-03-08-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I therefore give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir. Mr. Speaker, please.
u2017-03-08-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U vezi predloga zakona T/13972 o krivicnom procesnom pravu u kontekstu odredbi koje se odnose na prava narodnosti, zelim da trazim rec, vezano za pravo na upotrebu jezika narodnosti odnosno vezano za planirane propise uslovnog prenosenja podataka koji ce se uvesti u skladu sa novim zakonom o krivicnom procesnom pravu. - And then I'll continue to speak Hungarian as usual. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/13972 on criminal proceedings I would like to refer to the proposed legislation on provisions concerning nationality rights, i.e. the proposed rules on the use of nationality languages and the proposed conditional disclosure of data introduced by the new Criminal Procedure Law. [[11.40]] The mother tongue is the main characteristic of nationality, an essential element of identity and identity. As early as 1999, our country ratified the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, a unique agreement between the states that committed themselves to a future based on linguistic diversity. With the ratification of the Charter, Hungary has a first commitment to the language of German, Croatian, Romanian, Serbian, Slovenian, Slovak, then Roma, Gypsy, Romanian and Beás nationalities. At the same time, in the case of nationalities also living in the territory of the country, such as Bulgarians, Greeks, Poles, Armenians, Ruthenians, Ukrainians, language rights are CLXXIX of 2011. guaranteed by law. The decline of the ethnic language can be stopped and even reversed where young generations learn to use the languages that are traditionally spoken in the family and in the region. The use of nationality mother tongue, the practical application of language rights, undoubtedly leads to a slowing down of the process of language loss. One of the basic principles of the Charter is that nationality language should not be restricted solely to the private sector, but public language should also be encouraged. In the spirit of this principle, a number of legislative provisions have already been adopted in our country. The Fundamental Law and the Law on the Rights of Nationalities ensure that nationalities can use their mother tongue to deal with their official affairs. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act 5. According to Paragraph 2 (1) of the Act, the conditions for the use of the language of persons belonging to a nationality must be provided by the State in the case provided for in a separate law. The use of the mother tongue in civil and criminal proceedings and administrative proceedings shall be ensured by the relevant procedural laws. T/13972. According to the bill No 19 of 1998 on criminal proceedings in force, Like the law, the new Criminal Procedure Law provides for the use of national minority mother tongue on a principle level as follows. The language of criminal proceedings is Hungarian. Members of the nationalities living in Hungary, recognised by law, may use their mother tongue in criminal proceedings. No one can be at a disadvantage because he does not know the Hungarian language. Everyone is entitled to use their mother tongue in criminal proceedings, and in criminal proceedings, deaf and blind persons are entitled to use sign language. T/13972. In addition, among the general rules on the exercise of the law of persons involved in criminal proceedings, Rule 78 of the Law on Criminal Procedure. It also regulates the detailed terms and conditions of language use. If a non-Hungarian-speaking person involved in criminal proceedings intends to use his/her mother tongue in criminal proceedings on the basis of an international contract published by law, in the sphere defined therein, as a regional or ethnic mother tongue, an interpreter with adequate knowledge of the legal language should be used. In the event of a disproportionate difficulty in the use of the mother tongue, the use of another language designated as known by a person who does not know the Hungarian language should be ensured by means of an interpreter. The above provisions of the bill are those of CLXXIX 2011 on the rights of nationalities. Act 5. § 1 are in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 concerning the use of mother tongue. We appreciate as a step forward that the bill highlights the need to provide an interpreter with an appropriate knowledge of the legal language to those who use their mother tongue. However, the basic provisions of the bill on language use would be in line with the fact that the use of an interpreter with an adequate knowledge of the legal language would always be ensured, and not only as far as possible. For those belonging to nationality, the use of mother tongue is also guaranteed by the legislation in force and by the legislative proposal on the agenda, but in everyday administration, those belonging to nationality have little or no access to the linguistic rights granted to them in the absence of the necessary conditions. Experience has shown that public bodies, including investigative authorities and courts, are less prepared to communicate in ethnic language. A declaration of the legal basis for the use of nationality languages is necessary, but not sufficient. In the case of public, judicial, municipal and other authorities, it is also necessary to create the capacity to receive the use of nationality languages and to apply them in administrative matters. T/13972. The bill on criminal proceedings introduces a new legal institution with its provisions on conditional disclosure, allowing the prosecution or the prosecution to request data from certain data management bodies of the investigating authorities and the police acting in the preparatory proceedings, such as the local government body of nationality, in the event of the occurrence of a future condition. T/13972. Bill No 266 on criminal proceedings. Paragraph 1 states that, in the event of a specific condition, the investigating authority, the police's body carrying out internal crime prevention and detection tasks, and the police's counter-terrorism body, may be required to provide information to a government body, a budgetary body or a public body. We see that, based on the text of the proposed legislation and its explanatory statement, it is not sufficiently clear what is meant in relation to conditional disclosure of data under the body of the minority self-government which can be requested to provide conditional communications and whose task it will be to deal with and execute requests for conditional communications. The Law on the Rights of Nationalities, already cited several times, 2. In paragraph 2 of the Act, the national self-governments are defined as follows: a national government by means of democratic elections in the form of a body, having legal personality, which are established under this Act, which are established to enforce the rights of national communities, to protect and represent the interests of nationalities, and to manage the public affairs of ethnicity at local, regional or national level which fall within its remit and competence independently. The law is 77. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, the national minority self-government bodies shall be governed by an office in the case of the President, committees and national level. Local self-governments and local self-governments do not have an office which can legally handle and comply with the request for conditional communication. The nationality law is 80. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Local Government, the office of the local government or the office of the local government of the local government of the seat of the local minority self-government, on the basis of a cooperation agreement, shall provide the local self-government with the personal and material conditions for the operation of the local government, and shall ensure that the implementation tasks relating to its operation are carried out. The nationality law is 80. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on Local Government Administrations, the local authorities shall ensure that the personal and material conditions of the local government's operation and the implementation tasks relating to the operation of the local government are carried out by the regional authorities, also in the framework of a cooperation agreement. Local government offices carrying out these tasks are not self-government bodies, so that the conditional communication is carried out by T/13972. Bill No 266 on criminal proceedings. § (1) will not be eligible. [[11.50]] However, members of the local minority self-government with a maximum of 4 persons and a maximum of 7 members of the regional minority self-government body cannot be expected to act independently on such sensitive legal matters. We are also concerned that the bill on criminal proceedings is set at 266. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, committees which are a body of minority self-government but are not entitled to an autonomous procedure on behalf of local governments could act independently in the context of conditional disclosure of data. In our opinion, the scope of conditional communication should be reviewed and clearly indicated for national authorities. Thank you for listening. In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, committees which are a minority self-government body but are otherwise not entitled to an autonomous procedure on behalf of the local authorities could act independently in the context of conditional disclosure of data. In our opinion, the scope of conditional communication should be reviewed and clearly indicated for national authorities. Thank you for listening. (Applause)
u2017-03-08-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is my duty to ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State, I believe you wish to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-03-08-17	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Just a few words so that they do not remain completely unanswered by the questions raised. Mr Bárándy, I would like to start by saying thank you to all of you here for your overall support for the proposal and for the work that we have done here together, which has been positively appreciated. We're talking about the courts being overwhelmed. It is not the subject of this current bill, but there have obviously been discussions on the extent to which the court can handle it. Overall, I can also say that, year after year, the funding of the courts increases accordingly in the case-law work. We have now reached a period of wage increases. I hope that won't be a problem. I do not think that the amount of money in the seat is comparable to the costs in the courts, and it is also apparent that the conditions of the court work, the provision of facilities, will receive greater investments every year, so that is possible. There's been a question about the role of the D.A. It's obviously a matter of another law. We know the historical traditions of the independent prosecutor's office in Hungary, so it doesn't operate under government, and it was formed as a hierarchy. We have seen examples in recent years where it has not yet been precisely regulated that, without the opinion of the superintendent, you cannot let go of the sentence, so to speak, and then only the prosecution can change how decisions were made where there might have been an appeal. So I wouldn't rule that out that this is a bad legal institution, that the superintendent has certain rights in these cases. We have discussed with the Member that you will have proposals for a preliminary arrest, or even for a public defender. In fact, in the law of law, I think we'll be able to settle this comfortably. I think that - we are in constant consultation with the bar itself - it is clear that the opinion of the professional order will be the norm, and that they will also receive the licenses for the qualification. So it's going to be all right. Congressman Gábor Staudt mentioned the provisions of the implementing law. Indeed, with the supplemental package of laws that concerns precisely the amendments to the concealed instruments introduced into the law, as there will also be repeals, this will be manageable in this context. I hope that this will reassure the compromise. Mrs Bernadett Wind, thank you for your overall positive assessment. With regard to the sittings, I would just say that practically everyone agreed to the amendment during the negotiations. The representative of the LMP took part in the discussions, which was not said before, so this is a bit of a surprise to me. At the institution of detention, the court also has the right at the stage of the proceedings to take action. The extension of victim rights, we are pleased to appreciate it in the same way. He asked a number of questions, but if he would allow them to be detailed, I would not comment on them, and then we would even aggregate them at committee level, or if a series of questions were to arise, we could answer them in writing in detail, because in part the law contains some of the points, but may not be mentioned in that place. There was a part that got out of the law. These amendments were also always made during negotiations, so the Ministry did not self-exposed it. Overall, what I would like to say about the bill is that there is clearly no agreement between the professions on all matters and everyone has other interests. Compromises are born. In the same way at the five-party meeting, I can say that this is what was born. In any case, I would consider it a very positive example if we learned to work together here in Parliament without being able to reach a full agreement, but if there is progress, we can also accept them as positive and possibly support legislative proposals that are acceptable to all of us. Thank you for your support. I hope that we will be able to make it to the end of the vote. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-08-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Congressman Károly Panczél, representative of Fidesz, applied for a speech after the agenda: the 60th anniversary of the death of János Esterházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-08-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On March 8, 1957, exactly 60 years ago, János Esterházy died. It is fitting, even our duty, to commemorate the martyr, even the martyred Count. For the Hungarians of the Carpathian Basin, the most tragic, the truly serious legacy is XX. It was brought by the company. It is both thoughtful and disappointing that it was the century of progress that was proclaimed by the 20th century of progress. The century brought the two most devastating wars and two of its bloodiest dictatorships. CHAPTER XX The product of the century is devastating wars, torn country, Nazism, occupations called liberation, the looting of the country, labor camps, málenkij robot, conceptual lawsuits, communist dictatorship. Communism is a past with us. The memory of those in the Prague Motol cemetery was once forgotten, where Esterházy's ashes are now located. Thank you, by the way, to Karel Schwarzenberg, former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Prime Minister, for helping us find out where the ashes of the Martyr Count are at all, and thanking the Czech Republic for having a plaque in the Motoly cemetery today, commemorating the victims of the communist dictatorship, including Count János Esterházy. Dear House, A martyr is not a simple victim, not a passive object of events. The martyr could get away with it, but he'll take his fate. Our unforgettable martyr, Count János Esterházy, was born in 1901 in Nitraújlak on 14 March. János Esterházy did not leave his homeland after Trianon. His mission was to represent the Hungarians in the Highlands, to forward their problems to the Motherland. Támasa was the caretaker of the torn northern nation. He didn't leave his homeland after the decision of Vienna. As a representative of Košice, he remained in Slovak territory. He's been politicizing as a moderate force. On the basis of fairness and humanity, he rejected Nazi ideas. It has become a target of extremist forces, but it has not allowed its principles to the fascists, the Arrowmen, or the Communist Pribes. He was persecuted by the Gestapo, persecuted by Soviet authorities. It also shows that Esterházy was a genuine Democrat who loved his country and his nation. [[12.00]] Dear House, It is an honor for us, members of the National Assembly Committee of Hungary, to do our work here in Parliament in the hall named after János Esterházy, thus making a memorial to the Martyr Count. The foundation of today's Hungarian national policy is what Esterházy lived for: to remain in the homeland, to remain Hungarian and Christian. If we try to sum up the life of János Esterházy, grasping the guiding motivation and essence of his life, we can say that he was primarily a deeply believing Catholic Christian. Christian Democrat was a minority politician with God - given outstanding intelligence and talent. With his preparation and education, he could have chosen XX. In times of inhumanity of the century, there is also a different way of life. I'm sure this will save your physical life. However, he chose the only way: to serve his nation, to serve the people, to serve the communities. Two nations lived in it, the Hungarian and the Polish. In addition to his Christian faith, this fact has certainly helped him to overcome racial issues. János Esterházy was both a pure patriot, European and universal. He was protecting the fallen in line. He defended his minority nation, defended the persecuted, defended the Jews, because on 15 May 1942 he voted against the expulsion of the Jews in the then Slovak parliament. Famous sentence: Our sign is the cross, not the swastika. These facts are among the greatest in Hungarian history. Ladies and gentlemen, In 93 the Russian Supreme Court declared Esterházy's sentence null and void, rehabilitating him. Slovak rehabilitation is still waiting for you. In 2011, the Hungarian Embassy in Bratislava, the Civic Association of János Esterházy and the Cultural Institute of the Republic of Hungary initiated its happiness. I believe that John Esterházy martyr has won happiness, holiness in heaven. Let's have it on the ground. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from government parties and Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-08-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Thank you for today's work. I declare that the Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. next week. I'm closing the meeting, and I wish everyone all the best for today. [[Meeting ended at 12:02 p.m.]]
