u2017-05-31-0	Welcome, good afternoon. The 32nd day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr Nándor Gúr will be here to assist me in leading this meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2016 and the report on the operation of the institution for Parliament, together with the proposal for a resolution on its adoption, will follow. The accounts submitted by the State Court of Auditors B/15031. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/15541. received by the representatives. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Warvasovszky Tihamér, Vice-President of the State Audit Office, author of the report. Mr. Vice President, please.
u2017-05-31-1	Mr President, Dear Congressmen, The Act on the State Audit Office states that the State Audit Office shall provide the National Assembly with information each year on the activities of the organisation in the previous year, the measures taken on the basis of its audit findings and the annual accounts audited by the independent auditor on the operation and management of the institution. The aim of the State Audit Office is to achieve the Court of Auditors' work in society and to create added value at social level. In this spirit, 2016 was a year of utilisation and knowledge sharing in the Court's life. Among our core values, efforts to prevent errors and shortcomings and to support the cooperation of the audited are increasingly highlighted. This means that the final objective of the Court's audits is not to find faults, not to condemn them, but to steer them in the right direction, to start and maintain positive changes. The ultimate objective is to make public money more transparent and effective in its analysis, study and opinion, in addition to audits, and to contribute to the more efficient functioning of public services institutions and systems. In order to achieve all these goals, we actively supported the work of the Parliament in 2016. We have placed great emphasis on continuous social information, institutional transparency, and, in all justified cases, we have used the official signals set out in the laws. However, last year we were active players in the international community of SAIs. The results of the Court's audits, its experience and the output products of the advisory function are summarised in a summary of the utilisation of the work of the State Audit Office. I would like to mention the points made by the Court of Auditors in the report, which have been drawn up on the basis of the audit experience and which could directly or indirectly affect the lives of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The Court of Auditors shall use complex risk analysis procedures when defining control topics or identifying organisations subject to control. This aims, on the one hand, to broaden the control coverage, increase the number of checks, make optimal use of our resources, and, on the other hand, to identify risky areas or organisations in order to detect possible public financial irregularities. Based on this activity, it has become clear that more attention should be paid to the management and use of more institutional circles, all the more so as to indirectly affect the achievement of the objectives of the sovereign debt reduction. As a result, in 2016, the Court identified focus areas where it could bring the highest added value at national level and further reduced previously uncontrolled areas, so-called white spots. In 2016, the State Audit Office published a total of 260 reports. In order to make the checks available, the SAO has made more than 2,200 proposals based on a determination of the action obligation and has sent an additional 169 letters of awareness to the audited organisations in order to correct irregularities, deficiencies and to reduce the identified risks. This means that each working day in 2016 has received at least one report from the Court of Auditors. The role of the State Audit Office has gradually expanded in recent years, with an increasing number of statutory functions being performed by the institution. Last year, we kept an eye on macroeconomic developments and the development of public debt. We checked and analyzed the central budget and its institutions. However, in 2016, we put more emphasis on follow-up checks than ever before, and we completed 54 independent follow-up checks, not only as a means of monitoring with consequences, but also as a measure of the availability of our joint work. In 2016, the Court of Auditors audited the exercise of ownership rights over state assets, assessed the development and functioning of the Hungarian degree track follow-up and the development of tourism development measures in the framework of international cooperation. In assessing the risks of events related to brokerage companies and in view of their social importance, the SAO extended the audit of the internal control system to the investment decisions of the municipality concerned and checked the debt settlement procedures of the municipalities. In 2016, the State Audit Office assessed the management of several hospitals and water directorates, and, so far, it controlled the management of museums with county powers as uncontrolled areas, and also started the post-control of higher education institutions. Due to the explicit and implicit risks to public debt and the importance of public tasks performed, the controls of municipal and state majority-owned companies continued in 2016, paying particular attention to municipal district heating and waste management companies also involved in the reduction of costs. On the basis of our proposals, the auditors have prepared nearly 500 action plans, the implementation of which can be assessed by the SAO in the framework of a follow-up audit. In 2016, the State Audit Office informed more than 250 authorities, competent supervisory bodies, in order to ensure the use of public funds, of the suspicion of a criminal offence or serious irregularity detected during its audits. [[9.10]] The Parliament's work and parliamentary decision-making were supported by 25 parliamentary briefings, and 36 legislative proposals were proposed by the SAO, and several laws were amended based on our audit experience. In order to ensure transparency, we kept the public informed of our work; we published more than 2,000 reports last year on inspections, findings and our own organizational operations. As part of its advisory activities, the Court published 21 analyses and studies in 2016, as well as an 11-part series of studies on good governance, professional conferences and good practice seminars. The Court's transparency is reflected in the so-called joint institutional review report on the external communication activities of the State Audit Office of Poland and Lithuania in 2016. The review report found that the SAO operates an efficient communication system, which makes a significant contribution to the social use of the Court of Auditors' work. We paid great attention to the implementation of parliamentary decisions, in 2016, the State Audit Office of Hungary continued to widen its activities in the field of prevention-based anti-corruption and the dissemination of integrity-based organisational culture. In all the SAO's audits, where the legislation has allowed us to do so, an assessment of the validation of the integrity view has been published. For the sixth time last year, the Court carried out an integrity assessment of the corruption risks of the Hungarian public sector, to which 3002 organisations joined in 2016, and for the first time the corruption protection of public and municipal companies was explored. However, on the basis of the Court's professional initiative, Hungary will support effective anti-corruption action in some 75 developing countries from 2016. In line with the Parliament's decision to broaden the Court's advisory activities on management systems and to support ethical public finance management training, the institution started its joint public service performance analysis training with the University of Miskolc in 2016. Also on the basis of the parliamentary decision, the SAO carried out a study, which will support in future the identification of the integrity risks of significant investments and the development of controls to manage them. In the spirit of social responsibility, the SAO was also an active participant in the Hungarian people's financial awareness initiatives, which was recognised by the Parliament in its decision last year. We will continue this work together with our partners in 2017. Dear House, In its report on the activities of the State Audit Office in 2016, the Parliament was first raised on the basis of its audit experience, in which it proposes a review of a total of four regulatory areas concerning public finances. In 2016, the State Audit Office audited the municipalities involved in the debt settlement procedure selected on a risk basis. During the audits, the SAO assessed whether the debt settlement procedure conducted had achieved the objectives set out in the law, whether the opening, conduct of the debt settlement procedure was in order, whether the management of the municipality during the procedure met the requirements of the law, and whether the actors in the proceedings acted according to the law. In all cases, the SAO's audits have established that the parties involved in the settlement of the debt, the mayor's office, and the financial caretaker's duties were irregular, and this endangered the achievement of the objectives of the procedure. On the basis of the SAO's experience, neither the settlements of debts with settlement nor the distribution of assets provided an effective protection of creditors, and the failure to fulfil the commitments entered into in the agreement led to the failure to restore the solvency of the municipalities. After the debt settlement procedures, the financial situation of the municipalities was only made by debt consolidation, and the financial balance could only be achieved by the municipalities. In summary, the Court concluded that the debt settlement procedure did not facilitate the thoughtful and responsible management of the municipalities, which would prevent the re-production of debt. In the Court's view, there is a need for legislation capable of dealing effectively with the causes of debt and the interests of creditors, as well as with the appropriate sanctions for irresponsible management and non-compliance. According to the Fundamental Law and the National Property Act, it was also a task to examine the proper management of the property by the municipality. The proposal for transparent, responsible management of public assets - the second point in the State Audit Office's report - recommends that the legislators adopt asset protection measures which could be applied without obstacles and without delay by the authorities in the event of serious deficiencies. The State Audit Office shall make proposals for the audited organisations on the basis of which a plan of measures is to be drawn up to address those deficiencies in order to increase the availability of audit findings. The SAO will then assess, in the framework of follow-up audits, whether the organisations have carried out the tasks specified in the action plans for themselves. According to the experience of the follow-up audits completed in 2016, two thirds of the assigned tasks were carried out in full or in part, thereby significantly improving the sustainability and transparency of their management and contributing to the strengthening of organisational integrity. [[9.20]] At the same time, the SAO concluded that just over 40% of the government's regular management of assets and tasks to take account of the assets had been completed within the deadline and that the same proportion had not been implemented at all. In a number of cases, it was found that, because of the failure to fulfil the tasks, the municipalities did not ensure the preservation, preservation, responsible and proper management of the assets, accountability and compliance with the principle of authenticity under the Accounting Act. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, In examining the publication of data of general interest, the audit of the municipalities revealed that non-compliance with the legal requirements resulted in a breach of transparency. In this regard, the Court's third point. In the proposal, we indicated the revision of the legislation on disclosures and the need to strengthen the governance and quality focus of institutions, business organisations. In addition to the Fundamental Law, Hungarian public funds are regulated by a number of laws in order to ensure transparency in public matters. These include the right to information self-determination and freedom of information, which provides for fundamental rules for the right to access and disseminate public data in the public interest and in the public interest. In 207 of the 260 reports published in 2016, the subject of the verification was, inter alia, the examination of the disclosure obligation. Only 38 percent of the reports established the full fulfilment of the disclosure obligation. At half of the reports, the compliance of the audited parties with the disclosure obligation was partially met on the basis of the fact that only certain disclosure tasks were performed by the audited entity. Approximately one-tenth of the reports, 12 percent, contained a finding that the disclosure obligation was not fulfilled. Given the high proportion of non-fulfilment or partial fulfilment, and given the bureaucracy reduction objectives set out in the Government's decision, a rethink of the provisions of the info law containing the obligation to publish may arise, all the more so because the experience of international outlooks has shown that EU regulations impose and lay down significantly less requirements on the regulatory environment. The fourth point in the State Audit Office's report drew attention to the need to strengthen the quality assurance and sanctioning of the work carried out by the audit organisations, including the audit, i.e. the market verifier of the bodies involved in public finances. The protection of public funds in Hungary is ensured by a harmonised, interlinked control system, in which independent audits ensuring the transparency of farming have a key role to play. The auditor's opinion guarantees that the accounts provide an objective picture of the economic and financial situation and real, reliable information. The public body of auditors, the chamber, is responsible for quality assurance of the auditors' work, developing ethical rules for auditors and keeping watch over these rules. During the SAO's audits, the SAO has revealed in several cases irregularities which should have been reported by auditeers in the context of the audit activity. These experiences therefore provide a basis for the quality assurance and possible sanctioning of the work of the audit bodies. Dear House, In addition to these four points, I would like to focus your attention on one more subject. Last year, the SAO focused on the control of the auditors, where the Hungarian State Treasury, the National Tax and Customs Office, the activities of the Hungarian National Bank, as well as on the activities of the aforementioned Chamber of Auditors. According to the Court of Auditors, the existence and proper coordination of the three pillars of public financial control are of particular importance. The SAO will therefore review the audit methods of the audit bodies of both the first and the second line of defence, using the general powers laid down by the Court of Auditors Act. Audit bodies should speak a common language for effective control. By aligning audit methodologies and drawing up them according to the same principles, a greater impact can be achieved in the orderly functioning of public finances and in the proper and effective use of public funds. There is therefore a need for transparent public methodologies. The SAO's role is therefore to develop methodological orientations based on international standards for monitoring organisations. This work will continue in 2017. Based on the SAO's experience, it is also necessary to review and develop the training materials on which audits are based in order to ensure that the state controls are as effective as possible. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The default value of the State Audit Office, according to its mission, is to support integrity-based, transparent and accountable public spending. The audit experience of recent years has shown that irregularities are largely due to shortcomings in the design and operation of the internal control system that underpins proper management and mitigates corruption risks. Therefore, during the SAO's audits, it focuses particularly on these areas. The Court of Auditors launched its self-tests in November 2014, which now support the proper functioning of ecclesiastical institutions and central budgetary bodies in addition to local and national authorities, and the enforcement of the requirements already related to the use of EU funds from March 2016. By drawing up and publishing self-tests, the SAO aims to support the proper functioning of public money-using organisations by utilizing its audit experience. The various self-tests have so far been downloaded more than 6,000 times from the State Audit Office website. Based on its audit experience, the SAO continuously develops and updates self-tests in line with changes in the regulatory environment. Just a few weeks ago, we made available the renewed self-test of municipal authorities, which contributes to the proper functioning and management of some 3,200 municipal authorities. Self-tests that can be downloaded from our website are voluntary and should not be sent to the State Court of Auditors. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Our mission, as I pointed out in my introduction, is to start positive changes and support them by making use of our controls and analyses, which have an impact on the daily lives of Hungarian people and thus serve the development of our country. To conclude, I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament for using our audit findings, experiences, analyses and information in their work, discussing our recommendations to the legislative proposals and thus contributing to the efficiency and efficiency of the SAO's work. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I now give it to Mr Sándor Czomba, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, the rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Following the adoption of the Fundamental Law in 2011, the Court of Auditors law has put the system of control of public finances on a new basis in Hungary. [[9.30]] With the creation of a new regulatory environment, an era of qualitatively better, more efficient and more effective controls has started. The positive signs of this process have been evident in recent years, and, as is apparent from the report before us, the State Audit Office of Hungary continued to continue on this path in 2016. The report shows that the State Audit Office, as it did in previous years, supported the work of the Parliament in 2016. Followed up, supported by its opinions and analyses the adoption of this year's budget, closing accounts and contributed to strengthening the budgetary planning process and transparency. At the hearing of the SAO's accounts in 2015, the Parliament's Economic Committee asked the Court of Auditors to start reviewing the state control methods and its analytical evaluation and to inform the Parliament of its experience. As a result of the investigations, the SAO has made a number of proposals in which it drew attention to the methodological renewal of the public finances control system. According to the SAO's assessment, it is essential that audit bodies speak a common language in order to ensure more effective control. By combining control methodologies and drawing up them according to the same principles, a greater impact on the proper and effective use of public funds can be achieved. Following the evaluation, the Parliament asked the Court of Auditors to continue its activities with a view to the methodological renewal of the public finances control system, because it is the SAO's task to develop methodological orientations based on international standards for audit organisations and to promote appropriate training. Dear House, The main task of the State Audit Office is to monitor the effective and legal management of public funds. The SAO also performed this task effectively last year, involving new control areas in addition to the previous ones. If an organisation itself controls the management of public funds, it does not mean that the SAO's investigations cannot extend to its activities. Accordingly, the Court paid particular attention last year to the monitoring of organisations which could themselves carry out supervisory activities. During the verification of the auditors, the SAO assessed the activities of the Hungarian State Treasury, the National Tax and Customs Office and the Hungarian National Bank, as well as the operation of the Audit Chamber. The SAO's report also states that a number of new types of institutions have been included in the scope of the audit. This includes, for example, the control of the management of county museums or the follow-up of higher education institutions. In 2016, the State Audit Office assessed the management of several hospitals and water directorates. Last year, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office joined the National Tax and Customs Office and the Hungarian State Treasury. The reliable, good functioning of the HCSO has a fundamental role to play in enabling governments and, more broadly, economic, social actors to make their decisions on the basis of real and credible information. Control of the management of municipalities, one of the main elements of the central subsystems, continued in 2016. As in previous years, the area's control has been highlighted last year by the development of an internal control system to ensure protection against corruption threats and the control of the financial balance and the regularity of the management of local governments. According to the report, last year the SAO carried out audits of several municipal and state-owned or majority state-owned companies. In doing so, the management of dozens of municipal district heating and waste management companies also involved in the reduction of overhead costs was completed. Dear House, As the report before us shows, the SAO has complied with its legal obligations. It has included areas that have so far been left out, but which may pose a risk. It has supported the work of parliamentary committees with analyses and studies and has complied with parliamentary decisions in all areas in recent years. A new element in the report on last year's activities is the mapping of the corruption protection of state and municipal companies. It has further broadened its activities at international and domestic levels in the fight against prevention-based corruption and the dissemination of integrity-based organisational culture. For the sixth time last year, the Court carried out an annual assessment of the integrity of the corruption risks of the Hungarian public sector, to which more than 3,000 organisations already joined in 2016. The SAO supports effective action against corruption in some 75 developing countries from last year. In its decision adopted in 2015, the Parliament set out the task of the Court of Auditors to broaden its advisory activities on management systems and to support ethical public finance management training. In order to comply with this obligation, in 2016, as Mr Vice-President indicated, the SAO launched a public service analysis course with the University of Miskolc and strengthened its cooperation with the Corvinus University. Dear House, Last year, the Court of Auditors continued to support the work of Parliament and its committees with brief information on the subject of the negotiating materials that will be on its agenda, bringing together the Court of Auditors' experience. In 2016, the SAO published a total of 260 reports, made more than 2200 proposals and sent nearly 170 letters of awareness to the audited organisations to correct irregularities, deficiencies and to reduce identified risks. However, it says much more than mere numbers that the problems and issues in which progress is needed are revealed through controls. However, the Court of Auditors continuously identifies instruments that can promote the orderly functioning of public entities and the responsible use of public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, The Court of Auditors helps to make public money spending more efficient not only as an auditor but also as an advisory body. The SAO has prepared a series of 11 separate studies entitled The building blocks of good governance, which represent its goals in supporting good governance. Special thanks should be paid for the work the Court has done to improve the financial awareness of Hungarian people in recent years. From the cooperation network established by the SAO since 2011, it is necessary to highlight the latest results of the cooperation work with the EConventiono Round Table of Public Benefit Association, the project "Financial Culture 2016" aimed at developing the financial culture of Hungarian families, raising financial awareness and implementing programmes to support the expansion of financial and public financial knowledge. Due to the advisory and analytical function of the State Audit Office, it supports not only the work of the Parliament, but also potential auditors, to operate in accordance with the legislation. More than five hundred registered guests attended the Hungarian and international professional conferences organised by the SAO, representing more than a hundred public and management organisations. Dear House, If the State Audit Office finds that there is a suspicion of a criminal offence in its audit, it shall inform the competent authority without delay. In the case of other unlawful acts, it may initiate the clarification and enforcement of liability. In 2016, the SAO notified the competent investigating authority 90 times. In recent years, the SAO has carried out inspections of sectors or organisations that had not previously been checked. Several irregularities have been detected in these organisations in the absence of previous controls. This indicates that the SAO's risk assessment activity has properly filtered out the group of public money-using organisations where the audit was justified. Dear Parliament, In view of the report on the functioning of 2016 we should pay tribute to the work carried out by the Court of Auditors. The SAO continues to perform its tasks properly, effectively monitor the use of public funds, support and support the work of Parliament, and prepare publications and organise conferences that support the strengthening of the functioning of a good state. I therefore ask you, like the Economic Committee, to support the proposed decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. [[9.40]] Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President János Latorcai wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President János Latorcai should be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please raise your hands if you think so. [[Vote.]] I thank you for stating that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Congressman Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to apologize to you for the fact that I was only able to join the debate on the item at a later stage, since the Committee on Budgets, acting under the legislative powers, is currently in session on next year's budget, and from there I have sought my speech as a speaker. The Fundamental Law of Hungary clearly believes in the operation of the State Audit Office and the strengthening of the organization's control capabilities and independence. As the main financial and economic control body of the Parliament, the State Court of Auditors has a particular task of promoting transparency in the use of public funds through its professionally high quality and value-creating controls and contributing to the effective implementation of the principle of so-called "good governance." I believe that it is also clear from the report before us that the Court of Auditors continued to control macroeconomic developments and the development of public debt last year, thus making a major contribution to the transparency of budgetary planning. We can also read from the report before us that the State Audit Office has also focused heavily on the control of the auditors, where the Hungarian Treasury, the National Tax and Customs Office, the Hungarian National Bank has also assessed and examined the activities of the Chamber of Auditors. The State Audit Office also started reviewing and analysing the audit methods of audit bodies and drew attention to the methodological renewal of the public finances control system. The examination of the State Audit Office also clearly points out that audit bodies should speak a common language for effective control. " Indeed, by combining audit methodologies and by drawing up them according to the same principles, there is a greater impact on the order of public finances and on the proper and effective use of public funds. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to point out that in 2016, the State Audit Office also focused heavily on monitoring the exercise of ownership rights over state assets and the monitoring of activities or organisations that directly affect the application of the sovereign debt rule. For the well-managed state, the monitoring of public sector organisations, areas that are of major importance for the development of the sovereign debt indicator, the lack of public finances or the competitiveness of the country is a major help. Due to economic and economic policy changes which have a significant impact on debt management in recent years, the State Audit Office has rightly recognised the importance and importance of controls carried out on the subject of debt management on an appropriate scale. In line with this task, the Court of Auditors continued to carry out its audit in 2016 after 2012 in which it intended to examine the effectiveness of the management of the public debt. The report also shows that, in addition to performing all these tasks, the State Audit Office assessed the development and functioning of the Hungarian degree track follow-up, as well as tourism development measures in the framework of international cooperation. With regard to the so-called graduate track tracking system, which I mentioned earlier, it is worth mentioning that 34 higher education institutions collected data on their graduates and students in spring 2015. More than 20,000 people lived and were able to help with the survey by completing or returning online questionnaires that helped the survey. In order to improve the utilisation of competitive knowledge, the State Audit Office carried out, in cooperation with the main audit institutions of the European Union, a joint audit of the State Audit Office for the better use of competitive knowledge - exploring good practices for career follow-up. The Court of Auditors has audited the development and operation of graduate career tracking in Hungary during an extremely long period from 2011 to the end of 2015 in order to explore good practices effectively and effectively. I would like to mention here that, in parallel with the audit of the State Audit Office, the Bulgarian and Romanian Courts of Auditors have carried out audits on the same subject. In the framework of the cooperation agreement between the Court of Auditors of the three countries, an additional analysis was carried out by the Court of Auditors, which describes in detail the operation of the home-based career tracking system, highlighting in particular good track follow-up practices. In the light of the Court's activities in 2016, it can also be seen that, by analysing the risks of events related to brokerage firms in 2015, and given their social importance, the Court extended the audit of the internal control system to the investment decisions of the municipalities concerned and also checked the debt settlement procedures of the municipalities. In addition, the State Audit Office assessed the management of several hospitals in Hungary as well as water directorates, and controlled the management of museums with county scope left uncontrolled, as well as the post-control of higher education institutions.In 2016, the controls of municipal and state-owned or majority state-owned companies were continued, where dozens of municipal district heating and waste management companies, which were also involved in the reduction of their debts, were also controlled. The State Audit Office also correctly selected the audited companies in this area, as around one third of the audited companies had irregularities which led both to a proposal from the Court of Auditors to investigate liability and to a notification from the relevant external bodies. The State Audit Office also contributed to the transparent and orderly use of public funds by entities operating outside the public finances, with their audits carried out last year in respect of public-service systems outside public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the amount of work carried out by the State Audit Office last year is illustrated by the following figures: the State Audit Office published some 260 reports in 2016 and made some 2232 proposals to audited organisations to correct the irregularities and deficiencies identified and to reduce the risks identified. For the purposes of accountable public funds, he has notified the competent authorities or supervisory bodies, in total, 251 times, of suspicion of a criminal offence or serious irregularity detected during his checks. The Parliament's decision-making work was assisted by 25 briefings and 36 legislative proposals. In order to provide regular information to the public, he published more than 2,000 reports last year. 21 has carried out various advisory analyses, including on market organisation, debt management, disaster management, financial culture, large investments and integrity, as well as an 11-part series of studies to sum up the so-called "good governance" guidelines. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention a few thoughts on the less joyful fact that we have heard in the Commission's opinion that in recent years several domestic and international analyses have revealed that the financial awareness and knowledge of Hungarian households are at a very low level. Well, I think that, in order to improve or eliminate this situation and to spread financial knowledge effectively and widely - in addition to the measures taken by the government - independent institutions can also be very effective. We are pleased to say that in recent years the State Audit Office has also joined this initiative, actively taking part in the responsible work that is being done to increase household financial knowledge. We can also say that the State Audit Office has been a committed supporter of both financial awareness development and financial culture research for many years, as we have already been convinced that the Court of Auditors has a high priority in its social responsibility. I believe that the activities of the State Audit Office in this area can be effective in helping to reduce the economic risks arising from inadequate financial knowledge and inadequate financial decisions, thereby improving the financial awareness of Hungarian families. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the State Audit Office continued to perform its audit tasks effectively in 2016, effectively supporting the functioning of the Parliament and the committees, as well as fully fulfilling its information and approach-forming tasks. To sum up, the State Audit Office will continue to keep an eye on public funds, the Hungarian people's tax forints, and will also make a major contribution to the state's efficient operation. [[9.50]] I believe that the more than one hundred-page report before us shows precisely and in sufficient detail the activities of the State Audit Office last year, which can be considered to be clearly effective, and therefore the Fidesz faction supports its adoption. I also ask with respect my fellow Members to support the adoption of the report on the activities of the State Audit Office in 2016 by their votes following the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-31-6	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP, Congressman István Józsa. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The report of the State Audit Office, the lessons of which I think are always a significant event of Parliament's plenary session, the parliamentary work, together with the fact that I think this designation is wrong, because it is actually about the body of Parliament, so the organisation set up and operated by Parliament, which is the only body with a reporting obligation to Parliament, is the Court of Auditors called State. So to call it a state, it all suggests that he might be a government, but he's far from a government. If we ever changed the name correctly to a parliamentary court or something like that, then perhaps thinking in the minds could also be corrected. My personal conflict may be linked to naming me as a public defender, and the opinion suit against the elected representative of the National Assembly has been filed by the State Audit Office for years, and they have not apologized for it to this day. Well, these are the consultants of László Domokos; it was signed on the letter that the President's legal advisory body was. Well, congratulations, if you can give the president such legal advice, then don't work. I hope this organization has been disbanded since then, because it should be covered with salt, and the president should sprinkle ashes on his head, that this shame may have occurred because of an opinion given by a Member of Parliament, the subordinate body of Parliament, not knowing the fundamental constitutional right of expression, would sue a lawyer who, at the wrong address, not at my address, but at the address of my election office - so I didn't know anything about the whole trial procedure - to sue. You pay for this sloppy job, I suppose, the nook lawyer - I don't want to name where he's running and what Barnabas is, because in the end he's going to sue for it, even though it's a matter of opinion. So the president himself and his legal advisors have committed the misdemeanor of mistreatment. So we should first look around their own house, that, after all, there in the President's neighbourhood, who was an excellent Fidesz representative, and from there came the very prepared head of the State Audit Office's apparatus; I can imagine that it is difficult for them to endure such a president, because there are very well-trained, experienced and young professionals here. The fact that there are such experts shows that from the account. So the work you're doing is far better than anything you can take out of such a politically motivated leadership. Of course, it may be said that Vice-President Tihamér Warvasovszky had previously strengthened the lines of the MSZP faction, but that was a long time ago, so I cannot see him as a political candidate in that sense, or I cannot see it as being in the spirit of coalition engagement in the State Audit Office, although I am sure that even by mistake socialist representatives voted for him or from individual sympathy. In any case, it would be better if there were no ex-members sitting here, or the professional work they preach, if I were to do so under the guidance of professional leadership. The other thing that made me smile in the comments is that you are talking about good governance, and Czomba and the other, Mr Witzmann, and there is far from good governance here. I know that the State Audit Office is not a sociological investigating institution, so it does not need to be aware that poverty is growing in Hungary, and the root of the problems is corruption of an unimaginable scale, the stolen billions, the thousands of thousands of people who have not been lost in VAT fraud - and to talk about good governance, that is a little euphemism. Turning to the report, there is, in their own terms, a very good objective that the strategic objective of the State Audit Office is to play a role in the fight against corruption and fraud, to help identify effective means of combating corruption and corruption, and to promote their use. In this respect, the State Court of Auditors has plenty to do in Hungary today. Let's just say it should be written out, in the first place, for each office, so we shouldn't put out the document or table of the Fundamental Law, we should have a simple table there, a, Don't steal! A table so you don't steal, spare the public money. So when laws come in that seem to be all about not being able to catch certain abuses by law, the State Audit Office is doing a bit of a windmill fight. I would point out that the findings of some of your audits may not always be strict enough, but it must be acknowledged that the annual accounts of the State Audit Office are quite thorough, transparent, and all of their reports can be found directly and therefore on a well-available link, so it can be said to be clear. So what you're going to tell us, Parliamentary Members, and as stated in the annual reports, this is already in line with the requirements of modern availability, so what you're doing can be used. I would like to describe this as a positive. I would like to say a few words about some of the major study circles in the report. How many minutes do I have, Mr. President, in this circle?
u2017-05-31-8	Talk to me. [[Defiance. Interviews: Fifteen!]] Fifteen.
u2017-05-31-9	Fifteen, thank you very much. It doesn't matter where I measure these 12 themes I'd like to put. Thus, the operation of publicly owned companies has been shown by the State Audit Office of the State when carrying out audits on state and municipal owned companies that there have been serious consequences in certain cases of inadequate management, i.e. lack of competence or possibly intentional inadequate management and insufficient ownership control. In view of the shortcomings identified and of the identified critical areas, the lack of forward-looking and systemic solutions, which you have described correctly, can sooner or later put the budget in a difficult position, and citizens can also feel at their own risk in the area of certain municipalities, how serious it is if money is not managed properly. In 2015 the State Audit Office of the State notified the competent investigating authorities 55 times in relation to criminal offences. Following the notification, several investigative authorities have already identified facts indicating a criminal offence. These, of course, are no longer affected by the Court of Auditors. But if necessary in the course of the investigation, the State Audit Office provided additional information to the investigating body. I do not want to think about Lungo Drom and other funds wasted in the Roma area, but unfortunately there are cases like this - and the State Audit Office has done 11 percent of them in the context of the control of campaign funds and 5 percent in the context of the control of other organisations. [[10.00]] What was written is good, with which I have criticism, which has not been written down to a sufficient depth, such as the National Roma Municipality, where one and a half billion, seems to have disappeared, or at least cannot account for it. This is a story that the investigative authorities are very unable to uncover, so it would be good if the State Audit Office finally included in its audit plan what happened here, that there was a misrepresentation, a breach of the accounting system or possibly a fiscal fraud. Public procurement has also been audited and 33 cases of unlawful non-compliance with public procurement procedures have been detected by the State Audit Office. This is interesting because this is more than 90 percent of the cases you have investigated, and it covered more than HUF 1 billion in purchasing value. They've mentioned several times who checks the inspectors. I think it is very right that you have also checked the National Tax and Customs Office and the National Bank of Hungary, but at the same time you have to see that the operation of the State Audit Office is controlled by Parliament, in addition to what level, let us say, by Parliament's committees, because there may be reservations in this regard, given that the majority of governments are virtually ignoring this control, and that what the State Audit Office is carrying out or describes in its own activities is considered to be a moderate opinion. Overdraft systems used separately in the tax and customs territories, which were found during the verification, have not yet been standardised, which means that the organisation is not renewed. Due to late legislative follow-ups, there is a risk that employees in different NAV departments have either failed to take into account the changed legal requirements or have been interpreted differently. There was no uniform, transparent and up-to-date system of backlog management at the time of the audit. This is very important, because, as I said, for example, in the area of general sales tax, we are talking about hundreds of billions and, overall, thousands of billions. So, in order to keep these backlogs up-to-date, it is easy to highlight cases, which would be important. So I would encourage the State Audit Office to look into it with a follow-up. The government's objectives of monitoring the collection of tax and contribution revenues in recent years included an emphasis on increasing employment, which could be encouraged, among other things, through the provision of tax and contribution reductions. The use of the benefit subsidies was not always transparent and adequately controlled. There is no legal obligation for the tax authority to verify the legality of the use of social contributions and social contributions tax benefits for employment purposes. For the controlled municipalities, the tax content of the local industrialisation tax returns did not ensure that the employer's obligation to retain or maintain a number of employees was subject to the tax exemption for the previous period. So there's a white spot here that Parliament has a good intention to create a law to help employment through contributions benefits, but the correct way to use this is not the detailed rules for this. What I would like to say here in the remaining few seconds is the Court of Auditors and the Hungarian National Bank. The fact that the Court of Auditors could not control the 266 billion that the President had transferred from the profits of the National Bank to the National Bank Foundations because of the lack of legal conditions, and had the nerve to say that this would lose its public money character is the top of everything. So I would suggest that the State Audit Office should start the investigation of the Hungarian National Bank as quickly as possible and apply that rigour [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Which, unfortunately, is not typical of Matolcsy's practice. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-31-10	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, will be the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2017-05-31-11	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Vice President, Ladies and gentlemen, I was genuinely surprised that more than a third of my fellow Member István Józsa's contributions were made by completely individual considerations, and he even took the initiative to express his personalities... [[Dr. István Józsa: How surprised I am that they did this!]] - but that's it. As Vice-President Tihamér Warvasovszky said in his exposé, the requirement for responsible and professional management is essential for everyone, for all economic organisations, for the state and for the state institutions. The responsible and transparent use of public money and public wealth is in the primary interest of all of us. To ensure this, multi-stage, interlinked procedures have been established around the world, the last of which will be an independent external audit. That's the way it is with us. This is also supported by the Court's assessment by the State Audit Office. Underlining the importance of the entire defence system, the SAO paid particular attention to the audit of the auditors, the multi-stage screening programme, called the control of the auditors, in which it checked the activities of the Hungarian State Treasury, the National Tax and Customs Office, the Hungarian National Bank, as well as many other companies, from hospitals to the management of the Chamber of Auditors, and, for example, reviewed the activities of several auditors. Several new institutions have been included in the audit scope of the Court of Auditors. Through the findings of the audit series, the Court has taken a significant step towards enhancing the stability, efficiency and transparency of the public financial system. In the framework of this work, as the Court of Auditors' work last year has been very impressively listed by Vice-President, it has audited around 740 organisations, notified one of the authorities or the competent supervisory body more than 250 times, draws attention to the offences identified during the audit and has always made its report public in such cases. So it is no exaggeration to say, ladies and gentlemen, that every working day of the year has had a closed check, the most important of which has not been left unanswered. As an example, last year, the National Assembly made technically justified amendments to the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement Act on the basis of the SAO's proposals, which, mutatis mutandis, represented a change in the Implementing Regulation of the Public Finance Act, as well as a fundamental role in issuing the Government Decree on the Internal Control System. The work of the National Assembly was also supported by a total of 25 Court of Auditors briefings, which contributed to the legitimacy of the legislation and, on the basis of its audit experience, highlighted areas requiring more important and more precise regulation. However, I must point out that the Parliament has relied on the SAO's background materials on a number of occasions when it created legislation in the field of environmental protection, higher education, social management, the use of EU funds or cultural heritage protection. [[10.10]] I would also like to stress that the Court of Auditors has kept an eye on the development of macroeconomic processes and public debt, and has made an effective contribution to enhancing the reliability and transparency of budgetary planning. The Court also examined domestic developments in an international context with its Polish and Lithuanian partners. Ladies and gentlemen, An important area of the SAO's controls was the local government sector, whose overall assessment has contributed to preventing local authorities from regenerating their massive debt accumulated in the years prior to 2010, which, as memorable, had to be fully consolidated by the State during the previous cycle. The SAO paid particular attention to the control of local authorities involved in investment activities and debt settlement procedures, as well as of local majority-owned companies with a significant role in public services, by assessing the risks of past indebtedness and events related to brokerage firms in 2015. The Court has examined and evaluated public utility service providers whose operation has a direct impact on the lives of citizens and, of course, on their wallets, because, my fellow Members, the programme for the reduction of costs will only become a practical result if the official reduction of service charges does indeed appear and prevail in consumer prices and charges, i.e. the decrease in consumer prices, as we say in the public days, does not absorb the system. In this context, the Court audited almost 80 municipal owned companies, mostly public utility companies and public service providers. Dear House, As I have already said, responsible and professional management is crucial not only for public and municipal bodies, but also for all domestic citizens, so increasing public knowledge and promoting the practical use of theoretical knowledge is essential and essential today. The State Audit Office, together with other institutions, has done a great deal of work in this area, and has become a real factor in the field of university education and further training in Hungary. At the same time, it must also be said that there is still room for improvement in the financial knowledge of the population, despite the programmes launched. Although the more favourable economic environment, the government's family support measures have significantly reduced financial vulnerability, transparent and profound changes, genuine security independent of state aid can only be ensured through reforms and educational strategies affecting financial culture. The Court of Auditors shall work with its co-operating partners to achieve this objective. Dear Parliament, In my speech, I responded only a fraction to the Court's extensive and thorough work, but I trust that the annual accounts, publications, reports and resolutions of the institution have also made it clear to my fellow Members that last year's activities of the State Audit Office have greatly supported the legislative work of all of us, both the transparency of public sector management and the efficient use of public funds; so we have all received serious support from the Court of Auditors. I trust that the SAO will continue to work further, and will continue to support the legislative work of the Parliament with its research, professional and educational work and resolutions. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party proposes to adopt the Court of Auditors' report for 2016 and respectfully asks our fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-12	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpat, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2017-05-31-13	Mr President, Dear House, It will not be easy for me, but I stand on the battlefield as a man, because I must recall the spirit of László Nyikos, who is no longer a Member of Parliament, but who, in his professional opinion, remains accountable to both the Court of Auditors and the Government for fundamental professional criteria which, in addition to negligating him, would be quite simply political irresponsible to vote in favour of the proposal before us. What exactly are we talking about? With regard to the organisation set up in 1870 I had a somewhat similar feeling during the preparation than when we were preparing for the debates on the Hungarian National Bank, that there were basic tasks of an organization, basic tasks required by law, or that we could examine the four main tasks set out at the time of its establishment, but also that it has additional activities, and in the same way as in the case of the MNB, the balance sheet seems to be a little off to the detriment of the basic requirements. Thus, as regards the Court of Auditors, we can also see that, in principle, it checks the use of appropriations, the management of assets, compliance with the accounting system, but these basic objectives have already been set there, and I will also appeal to Mr Vice-President in this respect for some response to how he intends to control the management of assets, to comment on a national inventory of assets, without a national inventory. So a promise since 2010 has been constantly being lied to by this government. I can see from the expert box that there's supposed to be something similar. The fact is that what the government has imported, not under the heading of a national inventory of assets and not under the heading of a national inventory, but with a list of some national assets, is not only incomplete, but forms only a very small fraction of the entire unit, from which the mass of resources of the Hungarian nation should be derived. The previous proposal by Fidesz-KDNP, which lists certain national assets, is highly invaluable. We need an entire inventory of assets that has been sabotaged since 2010. In particular, the National Assembly of Hungary does not know how much the family silver is, and what can be cooked from. Quite simply, if you had an answer to this, I think it would have already been published in the expozee, because Mr President, Mr Vice-President, in preparation, I assume that the opposition criticisms of the previous years are aggregated and, obviously, you are trying to react to this in a way that pulls out the fang of poison in advance of some kind of repeated opposition criticism. The fact is that they have not been able to do so with regard to an inventory of countries, because you, especially with regard to the government here, have been sabotaged in recent years. Quite simply, budgets are presented, closing accounts are accepted without a national inventory in Hungary, we do not have a detailed list of national assets, which is a disaster. And when we see the Court of Auditors examining, where appropriate, certain elements of the management of public debt, we also see that it is not performing its basic task. This cannot be considered as a basic task, nor does it otherwise require the Court of Auditors to do so by law. It's commendable you'll do it. However, in terms of how public debt is managed, there is no substantial difference between current governance and the previous ones. The value of public debt increases by around a thousand billion nominally. Obviously, some stagnating processes can be achieved in proportion to GDP, but this level of public debt cannot be outgrown, and once again, the way of managing things has not changed. To accept all this with a modest nod and to say that this is okay, at least it is rude, especially because it consumes a budget line of a thousand billion per year only and only the repayment of interest charges. Obviously, there are other ways to manage this crowd. We also see that taking up the fight against corruption is not part of the strict basic legal tasks. Although I am very pleased that this is at least on a rhetorical level, I am also surprised that the Court of Auditors intends to eliminate all this with various propagandaist speeches and conferences, to address this whole problem. However, we also see that the mass financial audit that is really needed and what is really part of the basic task is quite simply missing. [[10.20]] Answer me from the Court of Auditors' management why the Court of Auditors does not carry out its primary task under international standards, the mass carry-over of the financial statement audit. Consider a very simple example. You would be obliged to examine budgetary bodies in respect of subjects belonging to the central budget subsystem. We can show 712 similar things; from the State Opera House to the University of Veterinary Medicine, you should examine 712 institutions correctly, professionally, taking into account the appropriate requirements. Their annual financial statements, as well as the closure report on the implementation of the central budget, should be examined. These, however, are not audited by the SAO for some reason, although it would be essential to do so. This is why, among other things, this institution was set up, not to organise various propaganda conferences, not to boost additional activities. The question arises as to where the SAO's basic tasks, the SAO's responsibility have disappeared in respect of this 712 organisation, and how they can even face the Parliament with such a mass of professional deficits. It is quite amazing, and it does cry out for an answer about how this could have happened. We see from the figures that, in 2016, more than ever, 260 reports were produced on the basis of this work carried out, 2232 proposals were made, 169 letters of awareness were sent to the SAO. At the same time, this indicates the quantity. I would be interested in quality instead of tonideology, and it would be very interesting to examine the effectiveness of the SAO's work. Let us give an international example: the Court of Auditors of the United Kingdom, ladies and gentlemen, has shown, for example, that savings of £1.2 billion can be reported thanks to its 2015 audits. Where is the similar data of the Hungarian Court of Auditors? Where can the Court's audit performance be measured in a quantified way? Once again, in the UK, they were able to do this without further ado, but what do we see in the brochure that comes before us? Process optimization results and other bullshit are constantly in progress. So it's elusive, a little pompous, a little bit - how do I put it? - expressions with large vests that completely lack the specifics. Once again, the Court of Auditors of the United Kingdom reports a savings of GBP 1.2 billion in 2015 for its own work. I expect the Hungarian Court of Auditors to present a similar data or to provide at least some concrete information on efficiency. It just didn't happen. And we also see that it is difficult to peel out the professional content of the SAO's investigations. What did you check out, what was the results of the check? Take NAV, for example, chapter XVI. The budget of which, approved by the Parliament, was HUF 142 billion for the period concerned, we are talking about 2016. But whether the spending of this was correct, whether the accounts were correct, there is not a single word in this leaflet. I do not understand how you wish to present these to the professional public, because this may go through Parliament, but with a serious professional standard, this is not a small one, it is zero. There is simply no indication of the performance of NAV's self-usage in order to collect taxes or, in the international context, it can be considered a little interesting in terms of irrecoverable hundred billion-dollar taxes. With regard to the NAV, this is acceptable, it corresponds to an efficient operation, from a financial point of view it is all right, and quite simply we see that I do not want to say badly, really these bullshits appear continuously, their process optimization results are the various general indicators that...
u2017-05-31-14	Congressman, because we don't say ugly in Hungarian, it's ugly. I would ask you to express your thoughts differently, which we expect with interest.
u2017-05-31-15	Understood, Mr. President. I promised that I would try to control myself, but simply the SAO's briefing and the slightly condescending and flabbergasting style in it will knock out the collateral in many cases, especially when we talk about the fact that this prospectus does not give any substance to the fact that, where appropriate, the Treasury, which also appears in relation to the investigation, performs the audit obligations of 3200 local government's financial statements in what way and how. The prospectus does not reveal what is going on with the hundreds of Hungarian local governments whose public finances are essentially not controlled by anyone in Hungary today. Hundreds of Hungarian local authorities fall out on the basis of a completely clear failure to comply with laws, regulations and obligations, and the hundreds of local authorities that are not under any control are essentially doing what they want from a financial point of view in this respect. Therefore, instead of organising conferences, it might be worth addressing this structural error, and since we have already talked about the effectiveness of the management of public debt and its examination, I do not wish to extend this subject further. But basically our main problem with the performance of the Court of Auditors is that it simply does not show changes of assets in public finances, does not mention the said and sabotaged country inventory, and we also see that when these - let's call it - pompous concepts appear in the prospectus, such as integrity, coverage, integrated management system, process optimisation results, compliance, we do realize that from behind all of this we simply lack numbers, facts, statistics and percentages. However, where appropriate, the key terms of professional terminology do not appear, such as the risk of sampling or checking at any university, in Hungarian, the likelihood that the SAO may be wrong when making findings. The SAO's degree of error, its possibilities, is simply not apparent from the little propaganda briefing that finally came before us. Depending on these, we can safely say, particularly with regard to the national inventory, that it would be politically irresponsible to adopt this report, this prospectus. However, we can see that the opposition forces clearly do not converse when such a material is criticized, but in the case of the ORÖ, we note that the SAO does not actually have a word in connection with such processes. The foundations of the Hungarian National Bank - let's just say - at least by exotic means they expand their real estate portfolio, their art collection, their painting stock, but the assumption of circumvention of public funds at least stops with regard to their activities. We would also welcome certain words from the State Audit Office. What we see is that the general public's basic financial skills are being developed, and that would be very important. The MNB has tried to do this, and we can even say that even the MNB may have tried not to succeed, but at least with measurable results, but I think that it would be best for public education to deepen this at the lowest possible level, not at university level, because we can see universities in Hungary where this is carried out with sufficient professional quality, but it is not certain that university students in economics should be subject to the knowledge-enhancing process under which they will become more conscious financial consumers, but it is possible that all of this should be treated as a completed process in high school. After all, many people's lives are already on the verge of being found by the student loan 2.0 by this current government, or found by one of its brokerage companies. By the time a Hungarian citizen reaches this point, I believe that he should be prepared to defend himself against the financial mechanism that has contributed to the institutionalised looting of hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-31-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now that an independent Member is not in the Chamber, a two-minute speech is possible. Congressman István Józsa, MSZP, please.
u2017-05-31-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would particularly like to express my gratitude to Vice-President János Latorcai for having paid such attention to the account of my personal experience, and that is why I have actually told him that he should finally be responsible and that he will see what a disgrace has happened. The other thing I couldn't finish in my 15-minute comment was the State Audit Office and the Hungarian National Bank, and the foundations in this area. Because the detailed question is that this is why you were sued, because you testified against the National Bank... - there was also an opinion from the Court of Auditors on the National Bank led by András Simor, which I found that part of this report is capable of detracting from the central bank's credit. [[10.30]] By the time I told him that some of it wasn't fit for credit, it was all a joke, but in any case someone was paid money to do it at the wrong address. I find it very problematic how the National Bank is now being audited or not audited by the State Audit Office, because those are certainly scandalous, I would like to refer not only to family moral aspects... - the President of the National Bank is leaving in 2010 and later we will find out about his girlfriend's graduation, while you are hosting the World Conference on Families last week, and rightly putting it at the centre, then such a person is the President of the Central Bank - but the 266 billion that this girlfriend even has for her mother, and even the brother-in-law is being paid for. I think that this should be followed up by the Court of Auditors, so do a quick audit. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Attila Mesterházy, applause: That's right!]]
u2017-05-31-18	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I wanted to ask you if anyone else would like to speak - that is what you would like to say, and that is what Congressman István Józsa would like to say to himself. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-19	I'm going on with myself, tops, but I'm getting the floor from Mr. President, so I can't make that mistake. There's an area where it's methodologically worth... I don't want to say that, as a Member of Parliament, I am proposing to storm the operation of the State Audit Office, but there is one area based on life-produced phenomena - and I do not want to talk about the lawsuit for me exceptionally, but about the operation of the Treasury. After a lot of steps, the Treasury has become the paying place, although this is basically the area of expertise of my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös and is very well-known, the issue of EU agricultural subsidies. So you said that you also checked the operation of the Treasury, and if you were to check again, you would be able to show the extent to which the Treasury contributed to the delay of about two months that Hungarian farmers were forced to suffer. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not over yet!]] Then press a button, Zoli, because the debate is open, so it's not about not being able to give an opinion. [[Zoltán Pride: I know.]] How many hundred billion have not been paid.
u2017-05-31-20	Now, please, it's a genre that I run the meeting on your behalf for Zoli and Pista. So I'll tell you who's talking to him. [[Zoltán Pride: All right!]] For example, this is the congressman speaking. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I'm just excited about it right now.]]
u2017-05-31-21	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your confirmation, Mr. President. So the checks on the operation of the Treasury and the shortcomings experienced in the operation of the Treasury say to me that it might also be worth introducing the possibility of such a rapid audit plan on the part of the State Audit Office. As far as I know, annual audit plans are being drawn up, they will be broken down nicely for a quarter, a month, and then they will go along accordingly, even though life can raise problems, phenomena in which it could make progress if the State Audit Office, by updating its previous experience, could help the interests of citizens with an out-of-line audit, for example, such a check on the Treasury. But I could also mention what the State Audit Office has done and has done in the area of control of the central budget. This was not a category of criminal offence, but a positive act. Although the SAO's criticism of the budget is less frequent, this is also the case now. With regard to the current budget before the House for next year, it was found that the structural balance in the draft budget law is not in line with 2.1 per cent, and this 2.1 per cent structural balance is not in line with the medium-term deficit target set in Hungary's current convergence programme for 2017. I think that this is very right, because this can be pointed out in three areas: the plenary session of Parliament, the committee meeting and your report. So it's very right for you to use your professional skills in this area as well. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] At the same time, it is the result of a much deeper risk analysis to document that their audit, which concerned the draft budget, considers it risky to meet the revenue allocation of HUF 5.6 billion, and also to note the risk that some expenditure, including four top-up appropriations, exceeds their planned appropriations by a total amount of HUF 62 billion. In addition, in the chapter of the Ministry of National Development, you have identified significant, currently unquantifiable risks associated with the expenditure allocation of litigation cases, which I think it is very right to draw attention to. So, in fact, to this speed or, if you like, operational assistance, which, by the way, should not necessarily be a feature of the work of the State Audit Office... - but given the situations prevailing in the country, I think that your expertise in such faster, more operational assistance could bring a great deal of profit in protecting public money. So I encourage the State Audit Office to do so. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-22	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Vice-President if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Vice-President Warvasovszky says yes. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to thank you for your contributions, opinions, criticisms, proposals. Allow me to respond to some Members' comments without the need for completeness. Mr Sándor Czomba expressed the opinion of the Economic Committee. I would also like to thank the Economic Committee on behalf of the Court of Auditors for confirming that it is carrying out its tasks in the right direction and carrying out its tasks by the State Audit Office. At the same time, he pointed out what I said in my expo was that by combining control methodologies, by compiling them according to the same principles, by agreeing between defence lines methodologies, we can achieve a much greater impact on the order of public finances and on the proper and effective use of public funds. Congressman Mihály Witzmann confirmed that the Parliament also authorised the State Audit Office because he was a former Member who suggested why we are doing this. We believe that it is very important for families to avoid situations in spending and borrowing, such as those in which Hungarian families went to the year 10. So we feel that we are fulfilling Parliament's decisions, and on this basis we consider it important to develop financial awareness. Member István Józsa raised his name to the State Court of Auditors. It's worth thinking about, maybe. [[10.40]] But if we look at the SAO Act, the first two-thirds law after the Fundamental Law, it clearly states that our owner is the National Assembly, because the law states that the State Audit Office is the main financial and economic audit body of the Parliament, and if we look at the independence parts of the SAO Act, it clearly states who gives and who can give the State Court of Auditors the task, right, this is obviously Parliament. I would like to inform the Member that we have carried out an audit of the National Roma Municipality, and this report is, of course, public, as can be seen on the website of our other reports, the SAO. I believe that the public that characterizes the work of the State Audit Office after 2010, which means that all of our Court reports are public, as I said in my expo, more than 2,200 news about the work of the State Audit Office during the year, its operation, control, studies, analyses, perhaps a guarantee. Moreover, the independent auditor elected by the Parliament and appointed by Parliament evaluates the management of the State Audit Office, its budget work, and the independent audit report is also an annex to our current accounts. The National Bank foundations were also raised by Mr Z. Kárpát and also by Mr Józsa. I would like to say, as it may have been said, that the amendment of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary in April 2016 allowed the State Court of Auditors to control the management of foundations founded by the MNB. In the 2017 public audit plan of the State Audit Office of Hungary, the audit of the regularity of the management of foundations and public foundations is currently underway, along with other foundations and public foundations, with the audit of foundations set up by the Hungarian National Bank. Mr Dániel Z. Karpat raised the inventory of assets. The State Court of Auditors has an obligation under law to monitor the exercise of ownership rights over national assets each year. He does that every year. Our reports are public. Our report published in 2016 also clearly stated that since 2014, the governance of state wealth management, the environment for control, the so-called country inventory project, has improved significantly and its available data content is constantly expanding. So, of course, you can look at the country inventory project for anyone. At the same time, the SAO has suggested every year that there are still many areas where improvements need to be made, including the updating of asset management contracts or the legal adequacy of property registers and balances. The audit of the State Audit Office for 2015 is currently under way. Local governments or coverage. The Member also said that the Hungarian Treasury was given the task of auditing the budget and the management of the municipalities. The State Audit Office has informed you that it has not stopped controlling the municipalities, that we have extended the debt settlement procedure or that the majority or sole ownership of the local government is controlled. I would also like to inform you that the State Audit Office has established a system for monitoring the risks of municipalities, called Ökomer. Based on the data of the Hungarian Treasury, the system monitors the financial data of the municipality. Ökomer is currently included, our system includes the data of 3197 municipalities in 2014, 2015 audited by the Hungarian State Treasury, and their assessment and analysis is ongoing. In addition, we have developed a number of dynamic indicators for assessing the financial situation, farming and, where appropriate, looking at indicators for 2013. This system allows a layered audit of hundreds of municipalities at the same time and a presentation of their financial situation, as well as a call for attention to the National Assembly or to individual municipalities about existing risks and financial irregularities. Fighting corruption. The State Audit Office is carrying out an old project before 2010, the essence of which is to try to help state and municipal companies and institutions with tests. Last year, as I mentioned in my report, we conducted for the sixth time a survey of the corruption risks of the public sector, an integrity assessment. Otherwise, we do analyses of this situation every year by organisation or layer, and this analysis is also public. I consider it a positive result, as I said in my report, that 3002 organisations had already joined in 2016 and that for the first time last year there was a mapping of the corruption protection of state and municipal companies. This confirms to us that Hungarian public institutions are increasingly committed to acquiring preventive corruption. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Once again, I would like to thank you for your participation in the discussion of the State Audit Office's report and for your active work. I would like to say that, as we have done every year, we will, of course, answer the questions that you have formulated this year and I have not answered orally. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-24	I see that Sándor Czomba, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, and Member of the Economic Committee, does not, of course, wish to reflect, as he is not in the Chamber. Dear Parliament, The proposals for amendments, I would like to inform you, will be available on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Proposal submitted by the Economic Committee T/1577. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2017-05-31-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As of 1 July 2011, the Corporate Tax Act, on the basis of which amateur sports organisations and national sports associations active in visual team sport, can apply for corporate tax subsidies. Following the authorisation of the support of professional sports organisations in Brussels, on 17 December 2011 an amendment to the legislation under which tangible assets investments by professional sports organisations can be accepted within the framework of the visual team sport support scheme entered into force. In terms of visual team sport support, expenditure of a personal nature, investment in tangible assets, renovation, maintenance, training and competitive tendering are the items on which support can be requested. On the basis of the available data, more than ten thousand sports branch development programmes have been evaluated since the start of the aid scheme until 31 December 2016 and more than HUF 405 billion of aid was issued under the conditions laid down by law. [[10.50]] On this basis, it can be said that since the launch of the visual team sport support system, the number of sports organisations and more and more associations have been able to make use of the funds that have not only improved the facility situation in Hungary in recent years, but also the number of Hungarian citizens who regularly exercise, as well as the number of certified competitors, has increased significantly. The main practical aim of the measures introduced is to maintain health, to serve health promotion, to support youth sport and, not least, to regularly engage as much of the population as possible in sport. Ladies and Gentlemen, When governance was taken over in 2010, Hungary was a driving force among the countries of the European Union in terms of the number of citizens exercising regularly. In addition to the name of Hungary, the sad figure was that the number of citizens who sport for at least 45 minutes twice a week does not reach 10 percent, thus keeping themselves in good physical condition. Since then, partly thanks to the corporate tax law's support system and the government's role as a key strategic objective in sport over the past years, this figure has more than doubled and we are now in the strong middle of the European Union. Our aim is to be able to take the lead by 2020 and to set an example for other EU Member States as to why it is worth involving as many Hungarian citizens as possible in the sport system, why it is worth getting as many children as possible to play sports regularly, because this will not only show up in increasing their physical and mental performance, but will cost much less for Hungarian society in both social security and health insurance. In addition, the corporate tax law has already had a positive impact on the increase in supply sport, since a significant part of the aid was implemented in this segment of supply education. It should also be mentioned that, thanks to the measure, the base for re-education of the sports concerned has, as I said, increased significantly, especially in sports such as hockey or water polo, where the biggest problems were, as there were few ice surfaces and little water surface. In these sports, the number of certified athletes has increased three to four times since the introduction of the corporate tax relief scheme. One of the key elements of the current amendment, honourable Members, is the expansion of the supported sports sector with another sport, and this is volleyball. I think that this will pay off our old debt, because at the start of the law, when the concept of visual team sports was taken over from the sports law, it only named five teams of sport, football, basketball, waterball, hockey and handball, so volleyball was left out of the sponsorship round during the first period, despite the fact that the support of volleyball in Hungary is extremely high. We are talking about a new sport, which is only the 19th. He was born in the century, but it can be said that one in six Hungarian people are now involved either as athletes or as fans in this sport. I think this is a good reason why this team sport should be among the visual team sports. And if anyone has ever seen a beach volleyball in their life, then I think it represents all the concepts of visual team sport in itself, not just because they are played by very pretty ladies, but because there is an enormous interest in it. To give you an example, ladies and gentlemen, in Rio, the first sport in the Olympics was beach volleyball where all the tickets were sold out in advance. Returning to the bill, we must bear in mind the alignment of the support system with the EU directives, and therefore, while volleyball is being included as a new element in supported sports, the bill also makes some technical amendments to ensure that EU legislation, i.e. legal harmonisation, has been transposed over the past period. The amendment defines, inter alia, the concept of a professional athlete and introduces, for the same purpose, the concept of a limited economic purpose installation and sets out the application-related procedure. Coordination with EU legislation is also supported by the extension of the rules on the calculation of capital investment by professional sports organisations to include expenditure items of a training or personnel nature. This was also an EU requirement. The amendment further clarifies the issue of ownership, recovery and commissioning related to the execution of works. I believe that the provisions contained in the legislative amendment provide sufficient guarantees that investments will be made and that in the years following their entry into service, they will be guaranteed to be used only and specifically for sport purposes. Dear House, To sum up, I can therefore say that the legislative proposal before you basically provides volleyball with support within the corporate tax relief system and the transfer of technical provisions that were agreed with the European Commission after the completion of the first five-year cycle, and which was expected to give us the possibility of maintaining this scheme for another five years. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the person who supports this bill cannot make a mistake, because he will also support a tax support opportunity, which is very popular in society, for volleyball team sport, and by providing technical transfers for other team sports, to maintain this support system, which will provide sport opportunities for tens of thousands of Hungarian families, and for young people a career in sport that can ensure their compliance and integration not only in the field of sport, but also in economic life or in any segment of society. I therefore ask you to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tünde Szabó wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressmen, ladies! The Hungarian Government has, as we know, been paying particular attention to the sports support system since 2010, and has therefore developed a new support system. On this basis, the corporate tax relief scheme for visual team sports was introduced as of 23 July 2011. From that date, professional sports organisations in five visual team sports and national sports associations can apply for tao support. From 2013 onwards, we have developed a system of support for priority sports, including 16 Olympic sports. This development and support system has established a solid basis for the development of the high-priority sport for the associations, facilitating the predictable development of Hungarian sport. A structure has been set up to provide programme-based funding. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Following this, the catch-up fund was set up as an additional measure, taking into account sports professional aspects. This framework has been left out of the priority sports sectors, but 24 additional sports are very important from a sports point of view. This three-sport support scheme works well, and programmes and sports development plans become eligible through professional funds. Organisations in visual team sports, as we have heard, may request support from the Tao for replacement training, training and competition, personnel costs, asset investments, and facility development and renovations. Mr President, Mr President, you have also mentioned that since the start of the aid scheme, more than 10,000 sports branch development programmes have been considered. This also shows how much demand there is. As a result, the number of certified competitors has increased by 155 thousand in the five visual team sports sectors in the last five years, which is very significant, as it represents an increase of 72 percent. Thanks to the support system, the number of new and renovated facilities has increased significantly, providing sports conditions for sport, replacement training and recreational sports, where every generation can play sports in decent conditions. When the Hungarian government reviewed the sport management and support system in 2016, it found that the visual team sport system has had very positive effects and became one of the pillars of sport funding. [[11.00]] This is why we initiated a further continuation of the Tao system with the European Commission, for which the Commission decided in March this year, following a comprehensive examination, and authorised the extension of the Tao sport support scheme for another six years. This decision also means that the importance of the Tao support system has been recognised at international level and that domestic legislation is in line with EU requirements. Dear Parliament, From 1 January 2017, the Hungarian Government amended its management system for sport and, at the same time, stressed the importance of monitoring the use of grants. To this end, the Secretary of State for Sport has transformed its organisational structure by creating a separate support and control department, within which a separate department deals with the support of visual team sport, thus ensuring the effective functioning of the system together with national sports associations as monitoring organisations. During the examination of the Hungarian sports system, we also considered it necessary to make changes to the sports sector, and in this sense we organise the re-grading of the karate sport that was included in the Tokyo Olympic Programme in 2020 among the main sports sectors, as the results of the last few years allow the sport to prepare valuable athletes in the next Olympic cycle. In parallel, the amendment also initiates the transfer of the volleyball sport from among the major sports to visual team sports and accordingly to its support system. In 2011, when the Tao Law was created, the volleyball sport also showed a significant lack of organisation and effectiveness, but in recent years, the sports sector has been able to show significant improvements as a result of the flagship sports development and replacement programmes. As we know, the women's team won the European League, and twice in a row, after 2015, they made it to the European Championship again this year. We also managed to enter the international line at the level of the club teams. It is very important to mention that there are currently 210 volleyball clubs and there are 1,200 volleyball teams in the school system across the country. Thus, some 14,500 children pursue the sport within organized frames. This also shows that the leadership of the sports industry places a high emphasis on the education of the replacement age class, while the popularity of sport is increasing, and the number of players is increasing, which is also significant in terms of rural bases. In addition, the government pays particular attention to the fact that the Hungarian legal order is in line with the provisions imposed by the Union, so that certain elements of the amendment, such as clarification of the concept of professional athlete, the procedure to be applied for economic activity organisations or the clarification of the rules of co-ordination, should be brought into line with EU rules. Accordingly, the concept of a professional athlete subject to a legislative amendment is based on the definition laid down in Law No I of 2004 on sport, which is complemented by the general block exemption regulation of the European Union. The assessment of the concept of a limited economic installation is also necessary from an EU competition point of view, since, where an entity qualifying for the aid constitutes an undertaking within the meaning of Union competition law, the relevant provisions of the block exemption Regulation should also apply. For the same reason, the rules on the calculation of the amount of assigned revenue and the additional support should be extended in addition to capital investment and renovation in respect of expenditure of a personal nature and training items. In addition, the amendment also concerns the regulatory framework for investment in construction. As you know, the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Law contains the rules to be observed in the case of state and local government property. Therefore, the investments planned on these real estates may be subject to questions from the Tao Law 22/C. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: This will also be facilitated by the proposed agreement on recovery and putting into service, as well as by clarifying the obligation to install the planned investments provided for in paragraph 8. The amendment ensures consistency with Union law, given that, where the beneficiary of the aid is an undertaking within the meaning of Union competition law, the State aid rules apply. In all cases, whether the beneficiary is an undertaking should be judged on the basis of the nature of the entity's activities. This means that individual items are clarified in support of the national professional associations of visual team sports, the amateur sport organisation and the public benefit foundation for development. Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the law amendment is to include the volleyball sport, which shows significant progress and results, among the visual team sports. In addition, it contains technical clarification of the harmonisation and interpretation rules required by EU legislation. Accordingly, the Hungarian Government supports T/1577. I am asking for the support of this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-31-28	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. István Józsa: What a surprise.]]
u2017-05-31-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very proud that I myself could be the author of the bill that came before the House in 2011 and which had great support between the walls of this House. It may not be a coincidence, because Hungary was the first in the European Union to introduce this type of corporate tax relief scheme. And after we were the first, we had to fight the European Commission through the conciliation process that ultimately gave the European Commission its approval, because corporate tax is a category that requires Community legislation. Therefore, I am also particularly proud that the apparatus of the Hungarian Government was able to close the negotiations in record time in 7 months. This is why the law was able to enter into force in 2011. Madam State Secretary spoke about the extent to which the number of certified competitors has increased by three quarters over the past period, which, I think, is an outstanding achievement. Thanks to the current amendment, by including volleyball team sport in the supported category, I think it will open up prospects in terms of increasing the number of certified players and, above all, in the area of training for replacements, which will also open up excellent sports opportunities and career opportunities for many children. It may not be a coincidence that the present submission was initiated by representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, so the Economic Commission was the author of this bill. At the committee meeting, of course, all the representatives of Fidesz supported the submission of this bill. After all, we believe that the success story that has started to support team sports since 2010 can be further strengthened by this amendment. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-31-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-31	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention, as you have quoted in your speech my contribution - it was quite touching to me that I had just been able to achieve such attention. Now, with the Tao talk of expanding the range of sponsored visual sports with volleyball sports, I can tell you that this is the only good element of this presentation. Because Erik Bánki's pride in introducing the system of hand feeding in Hungarian sport and being able to cheat it over in the European Union, because indeed, corporate tax is subject to the regulation of Community law, and to withdraw it from corporate tax, here the experts have written to me, since its existence, nearly HUF 500 billion, and you can be proud of that. [[11.10]] So, Congressman, to pull 500 billion out of the budget and give it to the businessmen, so to speak, because, of course, everyone gives it voluntarily and singing, and the Prime Minister says... [[Erik Bánki: Exactly!]] Well, that's the top of hypocrisy, Congressman. [[Erik Bánki intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then the Prime Minister is proud to beat his breasts by building this beautiful stadium out of Felcsút's charity. Oh, yeah. [[Erik Bánki: You didn't build anything. Shame on you.]] Imre Makovecz was so organic, the more organic...
u2017-05-31-32	Excuse me, Congressman, for a moment. Mr Banki, if you press the button, I will also give you the opportunity to speak again. [[Erik Bánki: Sorry.]] Congressman István Józsa now has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-33	The plan was so organic that it became more organic only through the Tao as it grew out of the earth, and almost as the people's will, that beautiful stadium appeared in the vicinity of the Orbán residence. So this is some fantastic part of your hypocrisy, and they can put it together. They probably understood Machiavelli very well, and learned his comments on the nature of power under the title "The Prince" during the Renaissance, and how the prince should act to love him in every act of the people. So, you're very hardcore machiavellists, that's part of it. A lot of people benefit from it. It has nothing to do with European trends, transparency, transparency and the achievement of Community objectives in general. So the fact that you, as Fidesz, have put your own people in charge of the various professional alliances, that the purpose of your own small communities is fulfilled, can be signed, because it is indeed in your interest, but it has such side-drives that the Wrestling Alliance's own private foundation receives 2 billion forints. The public money loses its public money character, it goes to the foundation, and everyone will trust that the wrestling hall originally designed for 500 million will be as good as possible out of 2 billion. I'm absolutely certain of that. Returning to the presentation, the aim of this proposal is to include volleyball sports as part of the visual team sports set out in the Company and dividend Tax Act, thus allowing the extension of the tao discount with the possibility of supporting such teams. I am very pleased with this impressive number, mentioned by the Secretary of State, that 210 - if I remember correctly - are already in the volleyball department. That's to say, in my hometown, my father founded the first volleyball class as a mathematics teacher, so it was such a common goal at the time that he felt the need to get into it as a starting point. So I've been very sympathetic to volleyball since I was a kid, if I may say so, Mr. President. The rest of the proposal mainly contains EU legislative harmonisation clarifications, given that the additional support applies to all items, including for professional sport organisations all items covered by EU legislation, such as asset investment, renovation, support for training-related tasks and personal nature. For each of these items, the basic and additional aid shall be calculated and the aggregate value shall not exceed the aid intensity specified in the Tao Law for each item. It's a fair settlement for the lines, so there's nothing wrong with that in itself. A further amendment ensures consistency with Union law, given that, if the beneficiary of the aid is an undertaking within the meaning of Union competition law, the State aid rules should then apply, which is also correct. I've already made some of my comments before, so you can be proud of what Erik Bánki is proud of in person. So there is no other person in the Hungarian Parliament who has taken such an active part, nearly HUF 500 billion... - 436 billion, here I see the numerical figure. So I would like to give an expert opinion on the Tao discount system - because I am not a sports economist - according to which giant stadiums in small towns, money inextricably flowing, sire relations between state and sports associations, and the absolute winner of the whole system is the sports union of a town called Felcsút. Only the blind can't see it, but you're proud of it. They see so much that they beat their boobs with half a brick that they did this. Yeah, well, the leader has to live up to it. For visual team sports, such as football, basketball, handball, water polo and hockey, the government has been providing support since 2011 so that large companies can write down their corporate taxes, so they don't pay them to the budget, but to these sports associations if they support sports associations. I mean, you're regrouping tax dollars by law. Despite this, the government stubbornly denies and claims that the Tao is not public money, it is still regarded as a private donation, which is certainly not true, because this money, the Tao money, is not paid into the budget; if there were no Tao law, this would appear in the budget. This represents HUF 85 billion this year, but if you look at the system's entire career, it is an amazing amount. This is what I have just quoted here: since 2012, corporate tax subsidies amount to HUF 436 billion in total. That's how much money has lost its public money signature by feeding it out of your hands and falling out of the budget without being able to track who and what decisions have been made to spend this money on exactly what exactly. So we do not agree with the aim of promoting sport, because sport must be supported, but not so protectionist, my brother, my friend, opaque, where the money disappears. The Hungarian volleyball, which is successful in international competitions, is also necessary and must be supported, but not through such a system, which is a hotbed of corruption, which is actually implemented by a system of fidesz mergers, the head of which is the head. [[Erik Bánki intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] So, if Erik Bánki likes that you're head of the merger, then congratulations, he'll do what goes on elsewhere. Where an annual budget of HUF 70-80 billion loses its public money character, it cannot be regarded as a European method, while in some way you have been accepted by the Union. So we are very much in favour of volleyball, if I may, Mr President, but not you and this Tao system. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-34	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, I would ask you to reduce this conversation, which is of secondary or partial interest. Thank you very much. [[Defiance.]] The lead speaker of KDNP is István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-31-35	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Erik Bánki also started his expo with a statistic, according to which in 2010, the Hungarian population, the Hungarian citizens, unfortunately, went behind us in terms of how many times we regularly move in the European Union. Let me add a little fresher stats to that. Recently, the Hungarian Student Sports Association launched a measurement called Netfit, which measured the physical condition and strength of primary school students and high school students, high school students and students. [[11.20]] From this we can see that, although the trend is improving after the introduction of daily physical education, we can see that we are already lagging behind the average level of training, health status and strength of the European Union as regards primary schoolchildren. And it is easy to conclude from this that there is still work to be done. And if we add to this economic studies that say, for example, an American study says that every dollar that we spend on sport, exercise, is a two-dollar saving in health care, then I think that these two facts all point in the same direction that Hungarian sports, sport, the possibility of sports for Hungarian citizens should be supported by the Hungarian state, the government at all times. If we look at the structure of the sport aid introduced by the government in 2011, then we can see that it modified the previous subsidies along this very goal. On the one hand, it introduced both the designation of visual team sports and the corporate tax relief. He did this because we really see that supporting sport for Fidesz-KDNP is a strategic objective. And, of course, in addition to competition sport - let us not forget that - the government places great emphasis on supporting mass sports and recreational sports. If, for example, I mention just such a specific example, the "Great Sports Selector," which was not before 2010, and today it is an entry brand, and it shows many young people what types of sports exist, from which they can choose, and they may be more likely to find the sport they would like to pursue. So what we can see is that since 2011, the strategic goal has been to support sport through visual team sports and corporate tax advantages. And what is the purpose of this? The aim of the tao is to strengthen the system for training sport, while at the same time increasing the capacity available for student and leisure sports through subsidised developments with reduced use of facilities. These have apparently been achieved in recent years. At the same time, the growing popularity of visual team sports - which must also be highlighted - has a positive impact on the development of lifestyle patterns, sports lifestyles, the promotion of the participation of young generations in sport, and broadening the social base of recreational sports by encouraging a movement-rich, sporty lifestyle, which is linked to achieving the overall headline public health objectives. If we look at the specific figures, we can see what Congressman Józsa has said here in a slightly incoherent way, but he has mentioned one or two specific figures: in fact, nearly HUF 500 billion of support has been received in the last six years for visual team sports. And I think that if we add to this, because perhaps the only, or rather, I say that the best measure is whether these resources have been used well, it is to look at how many certified athletes were athletes before the introduction of the tao or now. And here we see a very impressive growth. Allow me, I think the combined number has already been told by Erik Bánki, and I would run through specific federal statistics. According to the statistics of the Hungarian Ice Hockey Association, in 2011, before the introduction of the Tao, there were 2305 certified athletes, and last year this number was 5029. So there's a 218 percent increase here. In the Hungarian Handball Association, the number of certified athletes was 24,000, in 2016 53 059. That's more than doubled. With regard to basketball, the number rose from 24642 to 53 861. We also see that the number of certified athletes has doubled. In football, it is obviously the most popular sport, it is harder to show such significant results here, but there is also clear development and growth, as 158 682 were certified football players in 2011 and almost 250 thousand in 2016. This is also a significant increase of more than 50 percent. And we can see the same at the Hungarian Waterball Association, 4200 waterball players in 2011, and 6708 in 2016. Therefore, we can conclude that the designation of the visual team sport and the introduction of the corporate tax benefit scheme served the objective of the government and Fidesz-KDNP as a priority to attract as many people into the sport world as possible, to help as many people to live a sporty lifestyle. Therefore, the legislation before us is supported by KDNP. We see the success of volleyball as a sport in recent times. I agree with the Secretary of State that there has been a very significant catch-up with regard to the volleyball industry, it is enough here that we are talking only about the participation in the Championship or the European League successes. Of course, it is also an important objective of the legislation to ensure that Hungarian legislation is in line with all EU directives and legislation, despite the fact that Member István Józsa claims otherwise. On this basis, KDNP supports this amendment with a good heart, since we believe that if someone supports this amendment, it supports Hungarian volleyball and Hungarian sports as a whole. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let us talk a little bit more about the Tao, because the current bill may result in one of the biggest changes to the Tao, since we have included a new sport, which has not happened since the existence of the Tao. That is why the law and the experience so far could be assessed as a whole. One or two reactions, I listened to István Hollik now, he read things, and he was talking about sports, but we could have taken it as if he had sat at the family table with his brother-in-law, Csaba Dömötör, and they were arguing that the tao was good or not good for the country, because such basic things and incompetences were said in his speech, which cannot be ignored. For example, he refers to international American examples and even misquotes them. You're saying that in America, there are statements of sports economics that a dollar is two dollars in profit. That's not true, these are the statements. A dollar is four dollars, you know? ! In a country where these money is actually spent on sports, four times what is spent on sport brings benefits to the country. And that's not a problem, that's right. That's right. The problem here is that the one forint we spent on sports is not four forints, because we don't spend that one forint on sports, but it's good to spend 20-30 forints on that one forint, and the rest disappears on the hands with friends, friends or relatives. Well, let's get back to the Tao stuff. The problem is that there is quite a spread of who draws what conclusions; what is the control system, how much tao money has come in and how much is similar. It can be seen from the numbers, as Erik Bánki and István Józsa also said approximate numbers, but the numbers differ by billions, because Erik Bánki said that it was 405 billion that they were applying for, so it was not what they spent, but what they were applying for. And István Józsa talks about 436 billion spent. [[11.30]] There are huge differences between the two, so I'm telling you that the Tao is very complex. We should speak frankly about the Tao and draw conclusions that have been in the last seven years. We should ask those legitimate questions and discuss those legitimate questions honestly that, for example, tao is good or not good, because there is no clear answer to that. The Tao has very good elements, and the Tao has very bad elements. At the moment, if we consider that in the current situation, tao is good or not good for sport, then we can clearly say that it is good. The introduction of the Tao system used Hungarian sports in the short term, and, let alone being used, at the moment you have developed a situation - and this is one of the bad examples of the Tao - that today, without Tao, Hungarian sports could almost not exist. Once again, the question is where to put it, good or bad. I say that this is one of the bad examples of the Tao that Hungarian sport cannot exist. Can the tao work normally, by the way? Yeah, it could work. I'm just gonna say this one more time. I need to be honest. And right away, the first question that my fellow Members have rightly raised is whether tao is public money or not public money. This debate was triggered by Viktor Orbán when he first said that it was not public money at the stadium in Felcsút, it was added up by companies, and then several forums discussed it, as well as courts, and said that it was public money. Indeed, I think it's public money. But the Tao doesn't go into public finances. From now on, if it goes in, I'll pay it from there. What you do at the Tao, in my opinion... and then let's take a look at why the Tao is good. Is tao good, only for visual team sports is tao or sports as a whole? In my opinion, sport as a whole, as there is supposed to be more money for other sports, because what we do not give to visual team sports, we can give to other sports. So here's the thing: there are very good elements. My biggest problem with the Tao is that this was a truly historic opportunity to change the whole Hungarian sports system and the whole Hungarian sports funding system, because if we had started with the Tao to say that these visual team sports - which are otherwise marketable sports - so we are talking about sports that could appear on the market - would have been determined to support your development for some years, but you, a sports professional association, you, associations, should have started to enter the market, you should start looking for sponsors, start dealing with merchandising rights, start dealing with your incomes, then after a while we could have gotten to the point that these visual team sports would not need the Tao. But that's not what happened here. What happened to us is that unfortunately, the leaders in the field of visual team sports got comfortable, they sat back, and they wanted to solve everything with the Tao money, and they didn't think about entering the market. I would like to see a statement once about how, in these associations, in these sports associations, since the introduction of the Tao system, their revenue side, their own revenue side, what advertising contracts they could conclude, what other revenues they could generate outside the Tao for themselves, apart from state money. The other thing that has a negative impact on the Tao is political dependence. So we can clearly say that since the introduction of the Tao, those associations, even more politically dependent on sports associations, have become even more political. This can also be seen from the fact that there is now almost no sports union, no larger sports association where the leader would not be a fidesz potenta, where those fidesz people would not have been implanted. In fact, this is the case for the entire Hungarian sport, because we already understood that a man of absolute respect and respect for society, like Csaba Hegedűs, could be removed from the head of the Wrestling Federation with a punch, so that the Németh Szilárd with a great wrestling past could take his place. So political dependence has also increased during your regency. The other thing you shouldn't hide about the Tao is that it's a huge risk of corruption. There is no normal control at the Tao, there hasn't been any normal control over the past period, and that's why I'm saying that the 1 forint that we say we spent on sports is at best 20-30 pennies, because the rest of it with corruption risks and corruption you took out of this system and let it out. So what I'm saying is that I'm not even sure if we're talking about politicians or just people close to you, yes, the associations aren't acting like a good farmer, but now they're full of foam and we're buying things that are right. So, Madam Secretary, you said that there will be a check-up now, and I look forward to that. I am also curious about the number of cases that will be discovered, because the Tao system could only be good and it would work normally if there were really open cases, and the associations, the sports associations and everyone would know that no forint can be taken from the Tao, because it has to be spent on sports. That would be the goal, I think that would be good. And then, what we need to ask now about the law is whether volleyball deserves to be included in the Tao Support Circle and whether sport should be supported. The answer to both questions is clearly yes. Yeah, he deserves the volleyball support to get into this circle. Yes, sport needs public funding to support sport. The problem is that, in general, you have these two basic facts that all sports-loving people say yes to this, and you use it to extort it a lot. After all, if we were to say that there are things in this law that we would not support this law, then you would say tomorrow that Jobbik does not support Hungarian volleyball. Yes, you can. So let me add: we will support this law, so there are no things in it now, and that is why I brought it up, which is why this law cannot be supported. We're gonna have an amendment that I think will make it better, and I'm gonna ask you to consider it, but somewhere this potential blackmail is always involved in sports-related matters, that if we don't support something, then we don't like sport. Of course we do. And then the only comment that was made here in the speeches was Erik Bánki's beach volleyball was a little slippery. I also like beach volleyball, we are in Hungary. Beach volleyball is not as popular in Hungary as it is in Brazil. The fact that we ran out of tickets in Brazil, of course, we are talking about almost a folk sport, the Brazilians loved it very much, it was down on the beach, and immediately, indeed, there was no ticket available, but their attitude to beach volleyball is completely different. By the way, I would like Hungary to have the same fever with beach volleyball as it is in Brazil, because it has a mood, and we are actually talking about a sport that is very spectacular, entertaining and fast sport. So that's part of it. Now, let's get to the law. There are those that mean their alignment with EU legislation, there are those at 22/C that define the rule of reconciliation, in our view this is also an appropriate change. Then they determine who is a professional athlete, who is a professional athlete. Indeed, we do not have a problem with this, and what is important here is that it is trying to ensure consistency with EU law, given that, if the beneficiary of the aid is an undertaking within the meaning of EU competition law, State aid rules should apply. In our view, this is also acceptable and appropriate, and it is also about determining what constitutes economic activity, because it is not the country's business that has to be taken into account here. What I would like to talk about in more detail is the area of investments and renovations, i.e. the area of investment. 22/C. In many cases, the investments and renovations are carried out in municipal-owned areas, so we believe that it is also necessary to regulate this. Under the new rules, the municipal property investment can be carried out if the owners submit and conclude the agreement with the municipality. 22/C. In 6/a, the amendment solves a general problem by creating, in principle, a mortgage registration for the benefit of the Hungarian State on the property related to the aid, but this cannot be achieved in the case of municipal property. This, by the way, has been a regular problem in recent years, and it really needs to be touched. The amendment will remedy this. The guarantee here is that the municipal assets are unfit, so the sale cannot be made, so the aim will be achieved without the registration of the mortgage right. [[11.40]] What I have a problem with, however, and I have tabled an amendment to that, is 22/C. Paragraph 8. In my opinion, this amendment is a bit dangerous for municipalities: the aid is not used by them, although it is a fact that they will have an increase in value, but if they fail to put the tangible asset into service for a specified period of time, the aid must be repaid not by the aided organisation, but by the municipality, on the basis of the legislation. In my opinion, this is dangerous. We want and have tabled an amendment to this, and we need to clarify the proportion of who can be required to repay. If the investment is carried out on municipal property, the supported organisation and the owner municipality should be obliged to repay in proportion to their liability; it is worth establishing the obligation to repay in proportion to the liability, and if the liability or proportion cannot be established and should be joint and several liability. So first, let us examine who is responsible, who has used the Tao subsidy, or who is responsible for the municipality, so that it cannot be that if someone makes use of the Tao subsidy, it will be carried out in the municipal area - it is true that there will be an increase in value, but from then on it will be the responsibility of the municipality, because, let us say, they cannot install the facility or there is some problem - then the municipality will have to repay it. This could be a serious problem for some municipalities. I therefore ask you to take this into account in our proposed amendment and to support the definition of whose responsibility it is. Of course, it must be repaid if it is not normally realized, but not for the municipality, but for the local government, or if it can be established, it must be repaid by the person whose fault it was. That's all I wanted to say. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as I said, will support this law. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-31-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Ákos Hadházy if he wishes to speak on behalf of the LMP. [[On Dr. Ákos Hadházy's mark:]] No. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the speech by the lead speaker. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, his speech should not take place. This is an opportunity for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary! Right at the very beginning of my speech, I would like to say that I personally agree with the expansion of the range of visual team sports, i.e. the addition of volleyball to sport. I think it is good and important that all sports which, on the one hand, can provide space for sport on the other hand, in terms of promotion, and, on the other hand, can bring about a significant increase in the number of viewers, yes, to receive subsidies, but transparently, so that the resources that move within the framework of the Tao do not lose their public money character, so to speak, should have transparency in the use of resources. The lack of transparency clearly leads to abuse and corruption. In terms of recent years, since 2011, we have faced many, countless examples, at least which have been mentioned, but I can say more strongly, almost tangiblely, how the resources are being used unfairly, and in this respect we are still at this point, in many cases, not even open to the provision of data. We know the story of the Upstairs, where, even now, regarding the disclosure of the data, there are still turns to the Mansion who are trying to hide the data. It would be advisable not to go on these roads and to take the roads that make it clear that these resources, the resources from the lake, are really and truly serving sport, rather than becoming a hotbed for other kinds of corruption processes. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to speak with representatives. Member Mihály Witzmann of the Fidesz Group asked for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We've heard a lot of things in this debate. I didn't intend to comment originally, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to share some thoughts here on sports development. On behalf of the Socialist Group, on behalf of Congressman Józsa, we have heard strong criticisms and criticisms of sports development [[Dr. István Józsa: Appreciation!]] , recognition, including in relation to the Tao system, but I remember, unfortunately, from the years before 2010, it is as difficult to maintain, advantageless, expensive construction improvements as PPP constructions. In fact, this has affected several settlements in my constituency: Tabon is a swimming pool in Magyaratád, a gymnasium in Magyaratád, which actually took up unrealistic costs. In fact, in the years prior to 2010, these PPP fundings created improvements, but they meant, overall, the maintenance of this sport infrastructure at national level, which we welcomed, that the Hungarian government had abolished. In fact, these facilities have since been removed from this construction, and obviously this has cost the government a lot of money. [[Dezső the gullible will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] New solutions to such bad solutions had to be sought by the government after 2010. Such a new solution - but not to go too far away from the subject, but only in one sentence - is, among other things, the national public education infrastructure development programme, which does not feed at all from European Union funds and Brussels resources, but is implementing 100 percent of self-strong budgetary resources which have been expected for a long time and which, I think, have always been necessary. If you'll allow me, I can give you specific examples here. In my constituency we have just handed over a new gymnasium to Andocs, a settlement of 1100 people, made from a truly modern and imposing investment of HUF 280 million. The settlement's annual budget is HUF 251 million, so it is clear that it would never have been possible for adults and students from the surrounding settlements, Fiad, Nágocs, Kisbárapáti. We are now building the next one in the village of Nagyberény, we are talking about a village of 1400 people, and there will also be a new gym at your service from the end of summer, hopefully for the people living there and the people living in the region. So I think these are more positive forms of sport infrastructure development than we have seen before. Moving on to the lake. Fortunately, the Tao has made a number of improvements and investments, and I am very pleased that, at the last moment, the Municipality of Siófok has also submitted a Taós tender for the establishment of a swimming pool from the working hall of the NB I handball team to the Sports College. I know that many times Tao is tried to be discredited from the opposition side in the first place and negative criticisms, but Brussels, which has often judged us with double standards and a great deal of rigour for something until 2023, has given us the opportunity to continue the Tao system for another six years, so it can't be so bad then. I am particularly pleased that there is unity in it, and I see that my fellow Members in opposition benches are also pleased that the range of visual team sports is expanding, so now volleyball can be included in this circle, in this set. I really think that this is another positive step forward. I can tell you the number of years between 2011 and 2016: in fact, thanks to the Tao support, the Tao system, there are 155 thousand more people in Hungary today who are certified athletes, and this is a huge improvement in all kinds of ways; 300 new sports facilities have been built in recent years thanks to the Tao, and hundreds have managed to renew their head. I think they're just pointing out the positives of the Tao system again. As a member of Somogy County Parliament, allow me to search the numbers in Somogy County quickly. During the 2016-17 championship season, in the five visual team sports, more than 9,000 athletes are registered in Somogy County; I think it is also a huge positive in any case. Based on the data of the first quarter of 2017, we can actually say that since the launch of the Sight Team Sports Support Scheme, HUF 13.2 billion has been approved in Somogy County, i.e. 13.2 billion, these are only the first quarter figures, and 4.5 billion of them have come to the seat of my constituency, Siófok. So, in fact, I can say that more than one third of these investments, almost half of them were concentrated in Siófok, which I am pleased to say is because sport is not only a hobby, not only a passion, but I also think that it is an important tool and opportunity for a well-functioning society. In addition to the fact that it stimulates the economy, it contributes to the expansion of GDP, in addition to the fact that we can provide work for Hungarian businesses and companies, even a sports infrastructure can be created, in which I think we are happy to let our children in, and we are also happy to participate in these infrastructural developments in various sports and community events. [[11.50]] Finally, I think that if we invest in sport, we are really investing in the future, because if we can create a more athletic, healthier society, then it is good for the members of society and the community, spiritually and spiritually, and if the health of a society is stronger, it will in any case also be positive in its economic performance. I only wanted to say this in response to the criticisms, and I asked for the floor because I believe that the numbers are in any way proof of the success of sports subsidies, sports development and the Tao system. Obviously, I can also imagine that there are errors, anomalies in this system that may need repair and re-checking, but in itself I think that the initiative is positive in any way, definitely good. And as a sports-friendly man, I am personally very pleased that another visual team sport can expand these sports. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-31-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the group of the MSZP, Mr Attila Mesterházy, please.
u2017-05-31-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me just say that the fact that volleyball is going to be a sixth sightsport is a good thing, and for my part, I fully support it, and I would say that it would have been better if it had been in earlier. This sport may have been able to develop even more recently, but it is still good news that this circle is expanding. The other thing that Congressman Szilágyi was talking about is whether the tao is good or bad. I can say the same thing, and I can only confirm for the record that if I look at it from the point of view of sport, it must be quite good Tao, because any initiative that brings resources into Hungarian sport is good. But then comes the "but" that my fellow Member has spoken about more than once, that there are problems; let me also say a few sentences about this. Mihály Witzmann mentioned the PPP scheme. I think it must be acknowledged that the PPP scheme was not a good construction. For my part, I didn't support him as Secretary of State at the time, but that didn't mean much, because the government introduced him anyway. But he didn't do it out of bad intentions, let me tell you so much for the sake of historical loyalty, but simply looked for new funding opportunities and resources to create a comprehensive facility development programme in Hungary. I argued then, and perhaps life has already proved that there are many places where the PPP scheme works; because of sports, sports and the characteristics of the sector, it was foreseen here that it would be a non-functioning construction because of non-calculable revenues and many other things, and therefore, in the end, it would certainly cost more to the budget than if it had been tried in a different way. I just wanted to say that this criticism was true, it was not a good construction, but once again, it was not a bad intention, but rather a good intention to introduce it. The other thing that Mr Szilágyi has also mentioned is that we have indeed asked Erik Bánki and the government to do this several times, every time this tao comes up in this House, to draw a line like this once, to look at the results, to look at the experience. And you don't say that either, either, because we wanted to be evil and we want to criticize Fidesz, at least not in this respect, but that's what I hear from sports associations, professional sports associations, that there are a lot of proposals worth considering. It may not all be feasible, feasible, or can be incorporated into a rule, but it might be worth a little attention to what daily experience brings. And in this, there are many suggestions from associations, as well as from different departments, sports leaders, which may be considered. They've organized several conferences about this. As I understand it, many of you - also the Secretary of State - participated in this. So I think it's worth looking at these a little bit more openly, and if there's bad, there's abuse, there's a problem with the Tao, and then we have the job of being public money people, of course, to cut them to a minimum or possibly to zero. The other, which is important in terms of experience, we have also talked about this earlier, that it might also be worth expanding the scope of use. Now my heart hurts not to say that it is possible to use tao money for the operation of the high street stadium, because it is likely to be resolved otherwise, but there are also a lot of facilities that Congressman Mihály Witzmann talked about, how much sports facilities have been handed over, which is welcome, but these must be maintained afterwards, and in many cases the reservation is almost more expensive, and certainly more expensive, more difficult and more difficult, or a local government, or a sports association such as the construction or construction of the facility itself. In English: it is also worth considering how to help those who have already built these facilities to function and maintain them. For example, I think that a school can't be run profitablely in life, so there's no way you don't have to add extra resources to that, especially if you want to, say, use it to raise supplies. The same is true of a sports hall. If you want associations and children to be able to play sports there, it certainly doesn't go under market conditions, because few people want to run during the day, let's say, in a sports hall. So in Hungarian: the number of hours that can bring in the resources is limited. So in Hungarian, perhaps it would be worth considering. Mr Hollik talked about this halfway, and perhaps I should be a little more positive, let me take a more positive approach than my better fellow Member. I think it would be good for the sports economy in Hungary to be able to support certain sports to a greater extent. Now, probably the pentathlon and fencing will never support themselves, unfortunately, but the international, Western European or even American examples of visual arts show that there was a football player, if I remember correctly, who was bought by a Spanish club, and the price of the football player came in from the sale of his field. I know that this is a bit far from Hungarian football at the moment, but if we do not want to set this goal, but that, somehow, in relation to the sports economy, which is a complete economic sector in Europe, especially in the United States, a sector that contributes to GDP, perhaps in this respect it would be worth considering these resources and other measures. The fourth thing I'd like to offer you is the lack of clarity. Believe me that this is serious for the whole sport, for the Hungarian sport, for you, for the Tao system, too, to say that it gives a critical or critical point, in which they can attack that system, in many cases even when it is not true - when it is true, of course, it is okay - that the system is opaque. It is also not good to have a Fidesz MP sitting at the head of every sports union. Of course, they accept that Hungarian sport works in such a way as to come to the president, who can bring money. It's about as simple as that every single time. The mayor of Nyíregyháza said that he wanted to be, the former president said two days before the election that he didn't want to be president, and then they elected a fidesz politician. All these decisions cast the shadow on it, indeed - and once again, I want to be careful and polite - that there is something wrong here, or that this Taos system does not serve precisely the same purpose as that which is well defined in the law, or that it unfolds along the lines of the ideas spoken. So in Hungarian: transparency and a little restraint on the part of politicians, I think it would greatly help Hungarian sport in this respect. My last thought would be, in part, to the Secretary of State, that it might be worth doing, in addition to this Tao system, a comprehensive concept for the development of facilities, which is not only about stadiums. So a little bit of central thinking about where the facility is needed, where the school is needed, where the multifunctional sports hall is needed; where it should be... - I think it would be worth doing it in almost every village, the MLSZ is doing it, but perhaps it is worth paying more attention to this, because in a small settlement there is nothing more than the football field and the locker room that can be used as a sports space. [[12.00]] By the way, it is also a problem that gives money to the MLSZ to renovate the facilities of these smaller settlements, so the grass and the lighting and the hall, and then the associations shut them down. So the kids who've been able to go into the club area, they're kicking him out because they don't have the weed or the I don't know, because they're causing problems. So in Hungarian, golden legs can use it for training and when there is a match, but outside of that, the population is less, and perhaps it is not certain that it is the lawmaker or the government's intention. So in Hungarian, it would be okay if there were a strategy, an action plan for it, and if there were already such resources, to add the source, because we also produced a strategy that, I think, went 99.6 percent through Parliament during the vote, just because there was no action plan behind it, there was no allocation of funds, therefore it remained largely on paper, no matter how good and common ideas could be put in this with the help of the then government, otherwise with the help of several Fidesz sports politicians. Mr President, that is all I wanted to say at this stage of the debate. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-05-31-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. To speak again from the KDNP Group, Member István Hollik has applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also very pleased that this debate is basically taking place in a professional way on one hand and on the other: if I see it correctly, then there is complete agreement that Hungarian sport should be supported with all its resources, and if I understand it correctly, it is also about the fact that tao is a good tool for it. I would like to reflect on what Congressman György Szilágyi has said in a few words. His speech was considered professional, although it may not be that it strengthens his professionalism by starting his speech with my relations with relatives. By the way, if you're in the mood, I can give him an update on my entire family tree over coffee. You mentioned this U.S. study, and I'd like to be more specific here. He said that a dollar would make four dollars in profit. For me, this profit is too wide. I don't know if it's market-based in the associations. [[György Szilágyi: Social.]] for sport clubs or for society. [[György Szilágyi: Social.]] What I've seen, and by the way, if there's anything you've said, is even better, but I've read a study that says that a dollar of support for sport saves two dollars in public health, in terms of health. By the way, if we expand this with the other profit-making skills of sports as an economy, that number might come out, but that's exactly what I was talking about. Mr President, as I understand it, you said that market and competition aspects do not actually prevail so much because of the Tao, and that is why you say that there is a good and a bad side to the Tao. He's putting it on the wrong side of the tao because it makes clubs comfortable. By the way, this may be the case in theory, perhaps even in practice in the case of one or two associations, but I would just like to say some data and aspects that might nuance this image. We can see that in the last two or three years the amount of tao given to the associations is roughly the same, and even in the year 15-16 there was more tao or tao requested by the associations than last year. So what we can see is that roughly this amount is set, and even a slight decrease. However, from the other side, we can see that the number of associations... - also mentioned here, for example, how many volleyball departments existed. So what we see is that the number of associations is growing dynamically. So if the amount of tao is given and the number of associations is increasing, then I think that this is a positive process in terms of market competition, as this means that the companies that have been giving Tao have spent a certain amount of money on Tao support for many years, but the number of clubs that want to acquire it is increasing. In Hungarian, this means that for Taosources - we can see that Taosources are almost the only form of support in sport, or at least the largest - for this source, which has been fixed for about years, more and more clubs are lining up, so in Hungarian, competition between clubs will be increasing. I think that it is legitimate for the Member to suggest that, by the way, more attention should be paid to revenue, advertising, merchandising, that is true, but I think that it is not a test of reality that the mere existence of the Tao would make clubs comfortable, because I say we see that the number of clubs is increasing and that the Tao support remains the same, so there will be an increasing competition for Tao subsidies. Nevertheless, I think that all the points that you have made are worth examining. I would also like to say that, although I have not seen the amendment by Jobbik, what the Member has said is suitable for consideration. All in all, I am therefore pleased that we can agree that the Tao is in the interest of Hungarian sport, and everyone considers this to be supportive, as well as bringing volleyball into the field of visual team sports. I think that much more such professional debate would be needed. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-31-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi also spoke again from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. István Hollik - yes, I meant social benefits, and not just health, but indeed health, is the most affected anyway, because in a healthy society there is much less to be spent on health than in an inadequate society. But by the way, I forgot to tell you that in your speech... yeah, you just said it was a family tree. I don't want to hear about your family tree, we can have a coffee in peace, I don't want to hear about your family tree, I know that Csaba Dömötör is your brother-in-law, and there's nothing more to discuss. So the entry into the market, what you just said, and that's negative... and I don't agree with that. When you say so, you quoted that you measured your level of training for schoolchildren and how far behind we were. Congressman, five years ago, you introduced everyday physical education five years ago. At the moment, it is fully, so the ascending system has reached the point that in 2015-16 there has already been daily physical education in all classes. And that's where we are? Well, then something's going wrong. It's not that, and once again, it's not that we're talking about everyday physical education. What I'm saying is, yes, the Jobbik also supported it, that we shouldn't have everyday physical education. Just what happened to everyday physical education? That's what we've been signaling at the Tao, by the way. That there is a very good idea, which, by the way, is thoughtless, unconventional, and not having a normal look at whether there is an adequate infrastructure, we introduce it, and then we wonder if it has not produced any results. Well, it's not gonna increase the level of gymnastics for kids to say, I don't know, jump up and down the hall, because there's no, say, gymnasium, but you have to keep your everyday physical education. Or they sit in there and watch a movie because I've heard about schools where they're showing sports movies, like kids. That's not gonna increase your training. So the problem is not the introduction of everyday physical education, but the implementation. That's what we said here. The problem is not with the Tao, but with the implementation, and the fact that we do not see it, I personally do not see the concept, the long-term concept of sports in relation to the Tao, which, after a while, would eliminate the addiction to Hungarian sports that Tao represents to him at the moment. Because what did the tao result in? Instead of eliminating this addiction, he would have been independent of state money, and I would say that he was not independent of state money in any way, because if we were to lead the Tao out now, then visual team sports would not be able to make a living on the market, because he does not have the concept that should have been forced to do so. I'll give you an example: in Barcelona during the summer season, when there is no match, they make about as much revenue at the stadium from souvenirs, merchandising rights and everything else as the entire NB I can make in a year. [[12.10]] But why? By the way, Barcelona has built the brand, built that image, and if you go into that gift shop, it doesn't matter whether you have a son or a daughter, whether you want to buy an apron or a match, you can find everything and buy everything. With us, if you go into a larger association - there are attempts at one or two associations, but with the vast majority, if you go in - you can't do that. They make for fans, say, scarfs or anything else, but there are no big, extensive and continuous concepts. The other is that I wanted to respond to Michael Witzmann's speech. What you have said may be the basis of a constructive debate, because it is also here to judge whether it is a good or a bad thing. In different settlements who cannot get their TOP applications, it is a huge thing that they can apply for the Tao, for example, and use it to develop. There's no problem with that. Again, the problem is that he mentioned PPP investments and said how much better it is now. Not in my opinion, as nothing has changed in terms of concept. Now that someone feels, let's say, in a settlement, how good he will be now - and that is no longer a question of tao, because the state has a swimming pool and gym development program - he says how good a swimming pool would be for me here for the settlement; but good, then I'll have a swimming pool. Yeah, but in a lot of places, they're not that good at it. If someone went there and told them that such an investment would be counted as 30 percent implementation and 70 percent maintenance afterwards. Will you be able to keep the pool up? So are you aware, let's say, in the case of what is very good for the population, that there is a swimming pool, do you realize how much energy this costs, what kind of employees you have to hire in a swimming pool on a continuous basis, and that it works normally? I'm not sure. And I think that we are not sure, because let's look at two very important and priority investments in Hungary today. One is the Danube Arena, the other is the Puskás National Stadium. The Danube Arena still doesn't have the operator, the Puskás National Stadium still doesn't have the operator. In normal places, these facilities are built in such a way that they already have in advance who will operate them later, that operator has a concept for this, this concept is taken into account in design and construction, and they say that it is equally involved. We have the Danube Arena, which, in my opinion, I will not tell you, like some newspapers or anyone else, at last Hungary has a floating arena in which, for example, it was a very impressive sight for the last time to applaud the water polo success, and I am sure that we will do a very good event with the World Water Championship, and I am convinced that the whole world will pay attention to us and will be useful to Hungary. But then what? What happens next, what happens after the World Water Championship? The Masters are still going down, and what happens after the Masters? So operation is one of the cardinal issues of every sport facility investment, and that was the problem with PPP programmes, and I think that is the problem now that we are not dealing with it, and we are not thinking about what will be in the future, what is the long-term concept. So I'm gonna say this again... And what is very important is that, unfortunately, this past seven years has been a great heartache for me, since you have not listened to this. They did not pay attention to the proportions, nor did they pay attention to the impact of stadium construction programmes on Hungarian society in these large construction projects and in the great stadium fever. Unfortunately, Hungarian society's perception of sports has been hampered by these investments, as many Hungarian society, by the way - have played this demagogically in a way that hospital and not a stadium, or a ventilator or anything else, I disagree with that - but the things that have come true in this country have unfortunately caused distaste for society, and rightly so. So tell me honestly why it is good that the Prime Minister of Hungary does not need his house number and street sign, because it indicates where a huge stadium lives next to his house. Or say another European country, such as the European capital or city, where there are three multifunctional stadiums within two kilometers! That's what we're gonna do. They're leaving the Gunnery, there's the MTK, they're arriving on the Olympian Road, and they did it the other way around. I mean, do we really need a national stadium? The Gunman needed to be renovated, and do we really need a modern national stadium? Yes, I believe that as a sports-loving person, as a Hungarian and as a Member of Parliament, I think this country needs a national stadium enormously. The only thing that should have been built first is that society is already distasteful of Pushkas, because it says why so many stadiums in Hungary, and because they first built the Üllői út, we could list them all, and now we get to build a national stadium, let's say, as Stadium 30. So social reactions and social perception should be taken into account, as this is one of the negative ones when society deviates from sport and says that there is no need for sport investment. There is, but people are so fed up with these visual and prestigious investments, and they think it's so wasted money - in some places, in my opinion, that it's justified - that this is why the whole sport will be misjudged, and I don't want that. I would like society in Hungary to want sport in the same way, society as a whole, not only during the big sports competitions, not only during an Olympics, not only during a World Championship, but also in everyday life, and I would like to see 2-3-4,000 people lurking around a stadium of 20,000. But to do so, fans should be dealt with, service should be addressed, merchandising rights, brand building and everything else that would already be a profession. And here comes again, once again a concept: from the University of Physical Education, it is constantly, year after year, that very well-trained, athletic, manager-type young people who can't fit into the management of sports professional associations or the management of associations, because there are either old mammals everywhere, or people who are newly implanted by Fidesz, and I don't think it's any use for sports. Believe me, we also love sport, and we also think of a lot of money as a sacrifice for sport, because it pays off, but not unconceptally, not without a head and not taking into account different interests. There is only one interest to be considered, in the interests of sport. Thank you for listening.
u2017-05-31-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. We will start another round of speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, If sports cost money, I think it's okay. It also has social benefits, so not only do individuals benefit from it, but it also has its social benefits in its entirety, but if Tao resources and tao money in a controlled form are virtually approaching sport and going to sport, then it should be put there. I would like to introduce the idea that I believe that there is no transparency in terms of tao money today, or rather, that there is lack of transparency and even suspicious mergers. It's not good for anyone. This is not good for anyone, nor for those from whom resources would be integrated into the development of sport at entrepreneurial level, nor for those who are quasi beneficiaries of this, because in some ways they can become not beneficial, but also accomplices. Therefore, suspicious mergers should be avoided and transparency should be ensured, transparency should be eliminated. [[12.20]] There are many examples of this, and there are ongoing cases. In my two-minute speech, I was only concerned with the issue of the issue of the publication of data relating to the Highway Academy, court relations, police relations, for which the Fejér County Police Department is immediately biased, and then questioned how Veszprém thinks further, while the Foundation's turn towards the Curatorium is taking place. It's a waste of time to keep the system as opaque as possible. Why? Why is that necessary? If the use of resources is done legally, clearly and precisely, according to the law, then why is it necessary to hide, why can't the data sets of these be published? I would also like to say that it is not good to have a close correlation between the role, weight and the deployment of resources in politics. Orban, Slippery? Was he and his neighborhood? And we could say a line that could be considered infinite in this regard, of course combined with decreasing resource sizes. It's not good! It is not good, because it is appropriate, logically obvious that sources should appear dominantly where they are useful and where they can confirm the highest productivity. They say these sources lose their public finances. Why do people say that? Because, in fact, the use of these sources cannot be traced, or rather, we say that it is untraceable. They do not know and see what decisions are made, they do not know and they do not see what these resources are spent on. Why can't they be made public? Or why doesn't it have to be made public? After all, they all come from funds that would otherwise become tax forints in the budget, and obviously there could be a fundamental decision between Parliament's walls as to how these resources will be used. Of course, I know that the budget is now being announced by any numbers, and then Mihály Varga will be published what, how, how to change it, and he is looking for it, searching for the sides of it, and, of course, creating it if Viktor Orbán wishes to do so. You know, the problem is that the feeling is that there's money coming out of the system. The problem is that either in terms of infrastructure improvements or through procurement, it seems that we are faced with overpriced prices. This is like one third of public procurement in public procurement combined with one-man public procurement. The appeal is that the items given after single-playing procurements are overpriced at around 25-50 per cent. Well, the process works the same way in this regard either through procurement or in line with infrastructure developments, at least this is reflected in the way people feel. By relying on and referring to replacements, it is possible to achieve the situation on paper, creating a situation for the use of resources in a different direction. In the meantime, it is important to talk about the use of different numbers, but between 2011 and 2018, between HUF 400-500 billion and between HUF 400-500 thousand are used in this respect. According to my knowledge, only in the current year, in 2017 can there be an estimated magnitude of between HUF 80 and HUF 90 billion in the Tao. If we're talking about turning around money of this magnitude, why can't we create a tracking device for the use of these resources? Because if this could be created - and it should be created - then obviously its controllability would also be much better, which is not in the interest of those on the opposition side. Bullshit! It is also in the interest of the government, as it would have to face far fewer, much smaller impact zones in terms of the attack surface. Among the last thoughts, I would like to go a little further on what my colleague Szilágyi mentioned. What I think is important is that if improvements are made, there must also be provision for operation in the post-development phase, during the period. Look, today there are around 3200 municipalities in Hungary, the majority of the 3200 municipalities are not only able to provide operational coverage related to new tasks, but also have the resources to carry out their mandatory tasks, because they will not receive it either. Then how and how can it be imagined that what is invested in sport in terms of development will be able to function later, years after decades, and can serve the goals for which these resources have been invested and developed? What I would really like to ask you, to stimulate is that, on the one hand, transparency should be created, how the merger should be blocked, the possibility of using resources should be made to control it, so that these funds should work and move on, so that they really, in fact, serve the activities adapted to visual sports. Mr President, Madam Secretary, thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-50	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] Congressman Erik Bánki indicates that he wishes. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said in the debate. Firstly, I thank you for your supporting comments, comments and opinions. In this sense, I am pleased that István Hollik, the lead speaker of KDNP, expressed his support for this bill with all its advantages and the maintenance of the system itself, taking into account previous experiences and successes. Listening to István Józsa's speech, I remembered the comparison between the critic and the gynecologist. A critic is like a gynecologist, looking for trouble where there's a difference in joy. It is obvious that the grapes are sour for the socialists, because during their period sport was specifically considered a disgruntled and pitiful category. I could count, but reading through the register would take a long time to see how many associations have been destroyed, how many small settlements have ceased, and how many major associations have come to the brink of bankruptcy as a result of the messed-up policy that the socialists conducted between 2002 and 2010. I am surprised that they dare to ask for a word at all, and I am surprised that they dare to speak in sport between the walls of the Hungarian Parliament without the dome falling on us when they say that they support sport. You don't have to talk here, you don't have to talk about what would have been good. That's when we should have done it! Not squander the budget, not destroy the country, not destroy the Hungarian sport! If we register the comments made, it turns out that István Józsa has no idea how the corporate tax relief system works. Congressman György Szilágyi pointed out that he is talking about HUF 500 billion here, but not so much, but 405 billion, as I said, the amount of aid certificates issued. Mr Szilágyi rightly said that this is often not in the context of practical use, because if you knew this system, you would know precisely that the aid certificate issued is not yet a guarantee that you can use it. This is just a decision by the sports professional association to support this sport programme, and to do so, it issues a subsidy certificate whereby the association still has to collect corporate tax relief aid. And as István Hollik said in his speech, there is a serious struggle here, not only between sports associations and sports businesses, but also between the fields of culture, film production and sport, as there is also a system of corporate tax subsidies in the fields of film production and culture. [[12.30]] So, if we look at the specific use, I am blurring out the socialists that the amount of tax support used, which was otherwise approved and accepted by Brussels in the course of the negotiations, is hardly more than HUF 100 billion. After all, it is important to take into account the self-esteem that associations add to all sports development. It's either 30 or 10 percent, depending on whether we're talking about asset investment or development or operation. It is also necessary to take into account the resources to be recovered from the budget in the form of taxes and contributions. So we're not talking about hundreds of billions or 500 billion forints of use, and we're talking about lack of transparency. In fact, Nándor Gúr and István Józsa did nothing but accuse thousands of Hungarian sports clubs of being criminals, if they are allowed to use the rating after these speeches. That's what he specifically said about being accomplices to use, because it's about stealing. What are you talking about, gentlemen? We should go and take a look around the field. We should talk to sports leaders, talk to sports club leaders and athletes. Hundreds of thousands of families are being insulted by these speeches in Parliament. Shame on you! Think about what they say in a general debate just because they want to politically attack the ruling parties. At least take the trouble of being prepared, and you have some idea what you're talking about. I don't know who the sports economist is referring to, István Józsa, who believes that this whole system is inoperative. I think the degree of that sports economist is about as good as Master Mekk's company. You have to beat it about the same pace as you saw in the story. It's a disaster! I think that there is simply no place for such speeches here in the Hungarian Parliament. But let's talk about the substantive bill. I especially thank Mr Szilágyi for his constructive speech, because I think that the opposition party, which, by the way, considers itself credible, should be heard roughly like this. Of course, there is a fundamental question that I am very pleased that we agree on, and that is support for sport. That's what Jobbik said before, when the bill was passed. The fact that you have critical comments is perfectly natural. After all, on the one hand, we are looking at the world from a different perspective, on the other hand, there may indeed be some errors in a bill that we have been open to as drafters before, and we have accepted amendments from Jobbik, for example, but also from the socialists. I have the same position now that there must be a substantive debate and that the proposals that advance the effectiveness of the bill must be adopted. There are some points that I would like to respond to. Mr Szilágyi mentioned, as the former MSZP MEPs, that we have put fidesz politicians in the leadership of sports associations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, who has already participated in the general assembly of a sports association in his life, you know that it is not a matter of holding the hands of delegates individually, who, by the way, represent sports associations, sports companies or local governments, in which statutes they decide and choose. Let's look at the latest assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee. The Hungarian Olympic Committee was the president of a Fidesz member, Fidesz mayor. Members of the General Assembly felt that they could lead the Hungarian Olympic Committee better and chose someone else instead. However, there is no question that the results of Zsolt Borkai, if we had looked at the four-year Olympic cycle, would have given him ample reason to continue his presidency. But the General Assembly has decided, obviously, after due consideration, that it will entrust another person with this. It's not that we run everything manually. If that's what they think, they're very far from the truth. So that tens of thousands of sports associations can be controlled by the government by hand in Hungary? ! Please, we're as far away from this as Mako Jerusalem. Whether we are talking about marketable sports or not, you are absolutely right, Congressman. Indeed, the objective of the whole corporate tax subsidy scheme is to ensure that these sport disciplines are sport enterprises or sports associations capable of living independently on the market. I think that they will be able to achieve this by the end of the next five-year cycle, because this is how the sports economy can be built, if there are players in it who can live under market conditions. They are also right, Mr Hollik and Mr Szilágyi, that, of course, much more should be sacrificed and much more marketing should be developed, and much stronger and more efficient image building should be pursued. But I think everything has a curve, every process. First you have to start with the basics. If we don't have the infrastructure, if we don't have the right facilities, we can't build a brand, we can't build an image, we can't do marketing. If we start this process, then I think it has visible and tangible results, as in football, where they also attack football a lot, why there are so few viewers. If we look at where we started before the stadium development programme and where we are now, we see that this is a rising trend year after year. In the Central European field, because we cannot compare ourselves to Western Europe, because there is no such pricey demand as in Germany, England or Spain, we can see that we are going somewhere, somewhere we will reach. I am very confident that the successes that our sports teams have achieved over the past period, or even our associations and clubs on the international stage in these team sports, will be a driving force, and they will continue to increase the number of viewers, to further increase the number of competitors in the resupply class. As far as the beach volleyball, which you spoke about, Mr President, is concerned with a slight slip in the fact that all the tickets are really sold out, I must say to you, Congressman, the same thing happened in London. In London, all beach volleyballs were packed and a paraded downtown stadium was built anyway, because the sport itself is something that attracts viewers. After all, there are relatively few sports during which music is played almost all the time, where otherwise the audience can actually enter euphoria in a match. I think that for both classroom and beach volleyball sports it will be a very serious reinforcement that the corporate tax relief system can be part of in the coming years. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that more respect must be shown for those sports leaders who have been struggling for many decades to ensure that sports, sports associations and sports companies can survive at all during the previous period. I think that the last five years, the checks carried out by the European Commission itself, are precisely proof that the system is transparent, transparent, that it is on the website of all associations and that it is available for how much support they have received, for what purpose they have been used. Not to mention that both the government and the sports associations are checking whether those investments have actually been made. They have a 15-year maintenance obligation, which, I think, is a guarantee that these facilities will satisfy the interests of Hungarian sports and Hungarian athletes in the long term. So I think that whoever supports the adoption of this bill will do so for Hungarian sports and Hungarian people. If this system can survive, it will be as successful in the next five years as it has been in the last five years. Thank you very much for your attention and I look forward to your support. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-31-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a properly expanding amendment to the bill on the prevention of funded parties and the provision of more transparent campaign funding, which will be reopened until closure. Presentation by our fellow Members János Halász, Lajos Kósa, Répássy Róbert and Imre Vas fideszes T/1532. I, and the amendment tabled by the Judicial Committee, which is duly exaggerated, is T/15329/8. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I remind you that the Parliament is the House Rule 70. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 states that the over-extension of the amendment proposal is in order. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the general debate, which is reopening, consists solely of discussing the proposal for an amending amendment, which is currently expanding. I would also like to inform you that amendments may be tabled by its representatives to the proposal for an amendment which is duly overextensive until the debate is over. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.40]]
u2017-05-31-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Judicial Committee shall have the power to adopt individual house rules in accordance with Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Under §2 of the Act, he proposed to the Parliament that T/15329/ state that the proposal of the bill on the prevention of covert party financing and the provision of transparent campaign financing is in line. Given that the Parliament adopted the proposal of the Judicial Committee the day before yesterday, today we have the opportunity to hold a general debate on this duly expanding amendment proposal. As has been said in the general debate on the bill as a whole, the Fidesz fraction is committed to transparency and supports the bill on the prevention of covert party funding and the insurance of transparent campaign funding. The current text of the Election Procedure Act, to be exact, is the 148th bill. § 2 states that if the press product wishes to make a political advertisement, it shall, within five working days of the date of the election, forward to the State Audit Office the price list of its advertising services, which it shall register and publish on its website. The same price list is published on the website of the press product. I would add that according to the campaign funding law, each candidate has the same amount of resources available and can spend the same amount on campaign activities as any other starter. The original LMP amendment, which we have just discussed, would effectively regulate the possibility of placing electoral posters during the campaign period in the analogy of the regulation cited. Even if the amending proposal requires minor corrections, we have clearly supported the idea in the Judicial Committee, which proposes to amend the electoral procedure law. The opposition parties, who are advocates of transparency, but when it comes to legislative amendments, are uncertain, this is where they have the opportunity to show that they are on the side of transparency in their own operation. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Here are the keynote speeches. I ask Congressman Vas Imre... [[For signal:]] No, thank you. Members with MSZP... [[Attila Mesterházy: I will at the end, not as lead speaker!]] Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is István Hollik, I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member Vas Imre has said the position of Fidesz-KDNP, so I would not like to repeat this, but rather open the perspective a little wider. I think that in Hungary and in all democracies, thank God, there is a common agreement between the parties. [[Dr. István Józsa: Public agreement in Dictatorium! That's good. The president's ringing the bell.]] This public agreement is about not allowing room for anyone to influence the functioning of parties inaccessiblely. Therefore, for example, as in the old constitution, the new Fundamental Law states, for example, that the support of parties operating in Hungary from abroad constitutes a prohibited aid. Once again, there is consensus in this because we agree that the parties cannot be influenced in this way. Of course, this also applies to the area of domestic funded party financing. And indeed, there have been events in the last one or two months where there is a suspicion that billionaires and related financial groups want to influence certain parties and support their operation and their political activities in a prohibited way. I think that, therefore, the amendment of the basic law before us and its proposal for an over-extensive amendment also provide adequate guarantees that no one in Hungary can gain influence over the operation of certain parties in a forbidden and opaque way. I am also in favour of the position that the person who supports this proposal supports transparency, strengthens democracy, who does not support this proposal, who is interested in ensuring that parties operate inaccessiblely and that parties can be financed in all kinds of ways. We, the Fidesz-KDNP, have always said that we are fighting corruption and influence, proclaiming zero tolerance against all this, and we will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. These touching sentences do not leave an eye dry, my fellow Members. When the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP talk about equal opportunities, especially in relation to parliamentary elections, I think of a modified form of an old joke. In this regard, what is the difference between the Fidesz government and a terrorist? You can negotiate with the terrorist - you know, that's the difference in this respect. Of course, this may seem a little strong, over-exposed, but not so strong if we look at it. The fact is that in part the wind blows from the direction that you, thank God, lost the two-thirds majority more than two years ago and cannot rewrite, for example, the Hungarian electoral system, the rules of the law on electoral procedure, according to their daily political interests. And in their agony, they started scratching, resorting to all kinds of tricks. You can see that, and it was also revealed at the five-party meeting convened by Gergő Gulyás a few weeks ago, because the opposition parties made it clear to you that no one would agree to any amendment to the electoral procedure, no opposition party would support such amendment a year before the parliamentary elections, and now practically ten months before the elections. Then they tried to hide such rules in the Municipal Picture Act, but most of them would require a two-thirds mandate, two-thirds majority, and therefore, using an over-expansive amendment tabled by LMP, they have once again dragged the whole matter back here for a general debate in such a way that I would like to amend the electoral procedure law. So whatever trick they're doing, it's not gonna work. I'll tell you frankly, we've had a concern or doubt over the last few days that there may have been some sort of backup deal between Fidesz and LMP, and under certain unknown conditions, LMP can support this proposal and provide the government with the necessary two-thirds. This concern was removed an hour ago by my fellow Member Ákos Hadházy, because I thought that before I could get into the LMP hard, if we are here one and a half meters from each other, it is fair to ask them about their true intentions and to clarify this in a gentlemanly manner, avoiding unnecessary tensions and arguments. I asked Mr Hadházy, and he indicated that the LMP would not support this proposal in any way. So it looks like they have garlic in their noses with the two-thirds proposal, it's not gonna work unless they're looking at some kind of left-wing or independent congressman, but in this case, I don't see much of a chance either. But from now on, on a binding basis, I think that, in the context of gentlemen's agreement, the LMP should also attach itself to this. "Gentlemen" and "agreement" is always a story whose main feature is that it always comes out in hindsight whether it was indeed bound by gentlemen. From this point on, that you may have misinterpreted the LMP's behaviour or, in desperation, tried to cling to the straw by which you have now been dragged back here and generated another general debate, I don't know, but it doesn't look like that idea is going to work. What's it about? What is the origin of this, your prehistory, my fellow Members? Let's not look at each other like birds. [[12.50]] You didn't have any problems with the municipal law or the law on electoral procedures until Jobbik's billboard campaign came out. In this connection, we have said that although there are parts of the contract between Jobbik and the company that displays the posters, the State Audit Office or the auditors of any other authority authorised for inspection may also look into these contracts, so unlike you, we will not keep secrets because we have nothing to hide. You're not comfortable with that. You're very upset. Their beloved, devout leader freaked out immensely, outraged, probably freaked out at the sight of the billboards. Of course, he has every reason to, of course, because the truth is coming out now. The four leaders of Hungarian public life, those responsible for the illegal use of public funds, are on about 2,500 posters across the country, and this violates their sensitivity. All of a sudden, they get very sensitive, and they really start feeling sorry for themselves. Well, you should have stayed away from the theft. You know? 'Cause whoever starts touching the wire out of the wall is going to get electrocuted sooner or later. There is no need to touch the pipeline; no need to steal, no need to commit crime, no need to pump public funds with high-performance pumps in overpriced public procurements; no need to lower public or municipal property prices, no need to buy real estates well above fair market value, no need to steal 150 billion through settlement bonds and then there is no need for such billboards. The causal link therefore exists. This, if you will, was a natural reaction of Jobbik, as the strongest opposition party, to your actions in a manner that is consistent with the sense of justice of the Hungarian society, practically an immune reaction, since 90 percent of the media has been subjugated. What equal opportunities are they talking about? Grammra, like gold - not a kilo, that was a long time ago - is slowly buying up county media so that they can practically only develop the mind-altering media activity that serves the interests of the new genius of the Carpathians in order to win the elections in 2018. You don't care about anything else. After all, until the 2020 EU budget cycle, they will try to rip out the last bites, and they will have to win next year's elections and submit to this. That the most powerful opposition party has already caused you serious problems, and that this billboard campaign has increased Jobbik's popularity by another percentage, trying to prevent it, and they can't take criticism. To do this, you must also know the personality of a kind leader. He can't stand anything, no criticism within the party, no outside the party. That's why they gave the order to Ausradieren! Erasing everything that tells the truth, which makes it possible for people to see clearly - because that's what the story is about. Then say you don't like Jobbik's billboard campaign, it violates the interests of the Prime Minister and his immediate environment, and they try to cross Jobbik wherever they want. At least they'd be honest then. Because our farming is transparent. Each authority, at the head of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors led by your people, who, when he was a Member, had a hard time accounting for the constituencies allowance and housing support - has entrusted the State Audit Office with this, and I would like to congratulate him, and he is the head of the State Audit Office! And now they're constantly checking up on me, but they can never uncover anything, because everything's fine, everything's fine around the contracts. And that reminds me very much of the darkest periods of the communist regime, the way they're trying to live with some kind of harsh state price regulation. In order to say a few words directly on the proposal, not only about its background and the substance of its ideas, you are basically trying to introduce a violent price regulation. I don't know, you don't know about either the billboard market or the advertising market or, in general, any product or service, let's say, the duration of the contract or the quantity indicators? It's not a black and white story, is it? Obviously, an ad place that is in one of the frequented, busy parts of Buda or Pest, where hundreds of thousands or tens of thousands of people travel every day is worth much more than, say, an ad place in a remote, smaller settlement in North-East Hungary. Obviously, there are huge differences here. Each company, whether it is a supplier of products or offering services, is used to introduce serious discounts in order to keep and draw customers to it. When we talked about evenly dividing the billboard market in the previous cycle, you laughed loudly and laughed at us. I remember those cynical manifestations, because then they had two-thirds of them. And then there's less confidence, because at least we don't have it. Then tell them they want to cross us, they want to make us impossible, because they're working on it all the time. Their fellow media workers are slowly using mouth-to-mouth readers in order to frame opposition representatives, drag me down, make me look bad. Do you think that either the law on the image of settlements or the law on electoral proceedings will buy this crap from us, or will any opposition party buy it? There is nothing wrong with the requirement of transparency, and we are indeed on the side of transparency. But let's talk about it when, in their envelopable rejoinders, we are once again being bullied and lied about what kind of transparency is required, for example, by the election agreement with Flórian Farkas, my fellow Members. Maybe that'll be on one of the billboards. Doesn't transparency hurt you there? Did the rabbit bring Lőrinc Mészáros a hundred billion forints a year for Easter or Santa Claus in December? Don't you have any transparency issues there? Florian Farkas can't account for 1300 million forints? Flórian Farkas is a disgrace to Gypsy in Hungary! One of the low points of Hungarian parliamentarism! There is no problem, there are no contracts being examined, how the National Roma Municipality took it, destroyed it, used completely senselessly the money that... you waved, my fellow Member Vas Imre! I really hope the chairman doesn't stop talking to me. Now you're not in charge of this meeting as the Justice Committee meeting, where you've already denied me the opportunity to speak. There's no problem there, is there? All of a sudden, you're going to have to grab onto a billboard campaign that you don't like, and somehow use the means of lawmaking to make it impossible. Transparency should be emphasised here. With a man like that, who's worth 1,300 million forints - 1,300 million forints! - can't account for it, it's safe to conclude a new election agreement, and it's safe to think the Gypsy people in Hungary are stupid, who are only important to you until they buy their votes. There are transparency issues here, and in the companies connected to Árpád Habony and Uncle Vajna's interests, you know? Why aren't casinos transparent? Well, because they can produce a lot of untaxed forints, probably. Why aren't they connected to the NAV online system? Well, there should be transparency, not where there's no problem. You can claim the exact opposite of reality, my honourable pro-government colleagues, you can look at it again, I tell you, the persons authorized to control, the holders of a specific licence, will provide everything to the economic department of Jobbik. There won't be any mistakes. They won't be able to get involved because there's no foul play. You know, we look calmly with a good conscience and incredible calm, with a BP of 110/70 ahead of all tests. Can you tell me that about yourselves? Of course, as long as the state machine is working for you and the Attorney General protects you, of course, you'll be happy to smile. I'm not even gonna say that every one of you is dirty, I'm not saying that. For example, I think Imre Vas is not dirty. I'm very critical of his actions, but I'm sure he's not involved in such matters. That's why it's tragic that you're always taking the fall, Congressman Vas. I'm worried about you. Such suggestions are always tried to push me down your throat and must always be presented to this House. That's really unfair. Listen to me a little bit more, because, I'm telling you, they want you to do the ugliest job you're willing to do. In this form...
u2017-05-31-58	Congressman, I'm worried about you, that I'm going to have to take the floor if you don't come to it. [[Dr. István Apáti: We've already got this one minute, Mr. President, somehow!]] to covert party funding. [[13.00]]
u2017-05-31-59	Thus, in this form again, the Party Finance Act is a regulation tailored to a person or to a case or to a particular course of action, a phenomenon which you do not like, a very special sub-type of personalised special legislation. Therefore, do not even dream of being able to support this in such a way, because when we have raised a number of other laws that should indeed be addressed in the electoral law, such as the withdrawal of the boundaries of the constituencies, so that I may mention just one of the many, you are not so sensitive to what is again and only in your interest. So there's a lot to talk about here, too, that the constituencies are extreme in size, or that if they're in a single district, they're an individual and they're almost inaccessible to a number of Members, you can't work these districts the way you're supposed to, because you've customized them to this size, to this number of settlements. We could talk about this, we could argue with each other in a meaningful way, how to shape the number of settlements, the boundaries, composition of constituencies, and more. But as long as you're not open to it, don't get your hopes up. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that we will support such transparent proposals. They don't eat that! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-31-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Ákos Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will give you the point straight from the beginning: so, of course, in this form, with this amendment, we cannot support this draft law only with this amendment. This bill is a very good example of the series, the legislation that you do, you find a problem, but you do not want to solve the problems, but you look at the benefits that you can derive from it for yourself. There was a lot of talk about transparency here, and you're hiding behind the cover of transparency, so I have to say, this law and what you're doing right now is very transparent, so in this respect it's very good to see the underlying intention behind it. The problem that has been found here is obvious, this problem exists, we can only talk about democratic competition, we can talk about a fair choice if the government and the opposition have the same conditions if we can compete in this competition under the same conditions. And one of the most important conditions in politics is the public's chances, the opportunity to tell one side his thoughts. And you've been promoting the government with billions of forints of taxpayers' money for practically years, and that's what you're doing, while there's a fraction of the opposition here. The problem is that the opposition is right, and if the opposition puts out some posters, then you will be very scared. It is an unfair choice where this government propaganda can go from one side out of dozens of billions of forints, in a completely irregular and illegal manner, and the opposition has virtually less and less opportunity to say what it wants. He has less and less press, because you can buy the press from the stolen money - as we have heard here, listed here, for a long time - and you won't let the opposition tell you what you want. With a football analogy, we were talking about sports law: it's like if one team could start with, say, 30 football players or 300 football players, and the other one could only play with 11 football players. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] This problem, this inequality, this dishonesty, for every person who cares a little bit about politics, it is clear what is going on in this country - the government propaganda, as well as brainwashing - is the only part of this problem that is the issue of billboards. It is a legitimate point, but as you have put it, it is obviously only good for you, because you have unlimited funds, a completely illegal government propaganda. Obviously, the government is completely unlimited, but unfortunately, your party has unlimited funds, as well as the CF, the pseudo-civil organization, virtually unlimited, because state money can be put into the posters at any time, for example, hundreds of millions of forints from Electricity. In this case, if we say that parties can't get a discount from these posters, the price of these posters, it's obviously only good for one person: for you, because it doesn't matter to you, they can pay the original prices from their pockets. On this basis, we have tabled three amendments, and it was our decision - and we hold to this - that if these three amendments were to be adopted, this bill would be eligible for us in this case. One of the things that you have now brought back, and so to speak, you want to accept some of it, I would be surprised if you would accept all of it, indeed one of the points of this proposal was that you here, with great momentum, forbade so-called billboards, posters that you may have been plowing during the election, but legally put on the columns, may be posted to certain places by the activists of the parties. Obviously, they're doing this for free, according to the original bill, it would be forbidden. That's what we wanted to fix. In the same proposal, we would also like to propose that the CF should not post posters, so only those who themselves are nominated or nominating organisations can post posters. Our second proposal, our second amendment, would have said that the principle was right so that it could only be advertised on equal terms, but not just on billboards. It is assumed that they are afraid that a large portion of the billboard available has been seized and not by you, so we said that it should be not just about the billboards, but about all advertisements. We wanted this to be accepted, and you didn't support it. However, our most important amendment was to bring in the proposal that was already voted down yesterday, which would ban government propaganda, also known as brainwashing. We say that the activity where many, dozens of billions of forints are spent trying to get them to accept what is very difficult to accept, that all reforms are working and Hungary is strengthening, I believe that there is a lot of billions of forints to be involved in this, but we would like to forbid this, because it is obviously theft, because these reforms or they are working, Hungary is strengthening, then to what, if this is not true, then even more obviously theft is declaring a lie. By the way, we think that this latter version is the real one. We put this in this bill as an amendment. If this amendment, these three amendments had been adopted, we could support it, so, in this form of course, it cannot be supported, it is a scoundrel law, it is the same as the Traffic Act, when they are looking for a problem in some false way, and they are trying to solve it in a way that is only good for you. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-62	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we're going to have regular speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2017-05-31-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are in the pleasant position that the MSZP is still in the same bad position, that if we talk about posters, because it didn't allow it in 2014, even Lajos Simicska, so that the MSZP can get particularly posters, and that is the case at present. Now not only does Lajos Simicska not allow it, but now the entrepreneurs associated with Fidesz do not allow us to get any posters. So, in that sense, we could say that this is a catfight between Jobbik and Fidesz, and we could just sit back and say that we should discuss this issue. Because Ákos Hadházy has proposed many of these professional arguments, I believe that there is no professional argument here in the world. It's simply that Fidesz wants to increase its own campaign chances with this bill. Here, Congressman Hollik said something about a common understanding between political parties. I would like to ask where there was a public agreement on the reform of the electoral law, on the rewriting of the constituencys, when we presented proposals on party financing, or when we presented proposals on electoral campaign funding. Excuse me, Mr. President, my face is breaking up with a fidesz coming in here and telling us that there is a common understanding between political parties, which means anything to the election. The public agreement is that you dictated it, pushed it two thirds through the National Assembly, which you wanted, which increases your own chances of choosing, and then everyone else was shut up, no matter what proposal came, from any opposition party. So forget about this common understanding, that word doesn't exist for you in your dictionary. The other is that transparency has nothing to do with it, so I started. So there is no transparency, no matter what Imre Vas or anyone else is talking about, it is about transparency. There is no transparency! [[13.10]] They don't want any transparency, because if there was transparency, God willing, public agreement, they wouldn't start the next elections from this position, I'm pretty sure. It is also quite clear that there are many slogans mentioned here, let me try one. So, as long as public money was taken out of the budget with public jets and Nyerges towers, you were not bothered by the posters of Lajos Simicska. Now, suddenly, when you're not taking him out with this Public Machine and not with that Saddle Twist, you're suddenly bothering yourself because, by appearances - or, in fact, I can't judge that - Lajos Simicska stood behind another party. And since G-day, we have known that the two moguls, the former public enemy number one, and the two for opposition voters have been fighting each other, and now, from this debate, this personal distortion, the various laws and regulations are constantly being made. They just don't want to sell it because the Hungarian voter is neither stupid nor we are completely stupid in the opposition.They don't want to say that it's a fantastic opportunity for the opposition to prove our commitment to transparency. Aren't they ashamed? You guys need to prove something, that the only thing about the political election is that you guys want to do something transparent and some fair, decent choice. They should start by bringing back much more from the electoral law, party funding, electoral funding, and they will hold a fair, five-party agreement on this. The other thing is, I understand that the government can continue to advertise in the nose and mouth, because it doesn't apply to this story, and it doesn't apply to COFFEE, which is a fidesz dressed in a civilian if we're gonna make a little joke. Well, they're also giving them the money uncounted, so it's only natural that if they have to advertise to them at market prices, it's okay for them, because you have unlimited resources to fund their campaign, while the opposition parties have enough money to fund this campaign from the state budget. So it doesn't matter to you, because you have money, you can pay it, then you can be sponsored by the CÖF and earlier by the Hungarian Vizsla, or what was the name of this Rogan organization, which was then quickly created so that Fidesz wouldn't run the negative campaign. It is not the Vizsla that is carrying it, but another animal, the COF, that is carrying this political campaign against opposition representatives and parties. Therefore, I think it would be best to withdraw this draft law, because this does not make any sense, and if you really want transparency, indeed, a common understanding, then you should initiate a five-party consultation with the political parties, the members of the faction, the leaders of the factions about how this should be handled in a package. And we could immediately add the question of how corruption could be dealt with, because it would certainly serve transparency if they could finally tell us how a gasman could have a hundred billion more in a year. Because this man should be teaching at the university of economics by now, because this knowledge of management should not be kept from young people. So if someone as smart as you say is smarter than Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, then let's not hide this. The Nobel Prize for Economics, along with Matolcsy! I am saying this is outrageous when you are talking about transparency and public agreement - and don't take this personally, Mr Imre Vas, because I agree with the right-hand man before me with the sentences about you - but it is ridiculous that you are running around in this House with this! Thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-64	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Apáti.
u2017-05-31-65	Thank you very much. The two fellow Members who spoke before me have already touched on it, but as an add-on, I would also like to add to my previous speech that, indeed, this insurmountable desire for transparency did not take over you, when the CF filled Hungary with lying posters about the alleged alliance between Jobbik and the Left, Jobbik and DK, or Vona and Gyurcsány, when they tried to ridicule the President of Jobbik by putting a clown in the middle of the poster. More or at least 500 million forints were used for this purpose. It was recently found that the funds were received from MVM through indirectly hidden funding. They weren't so sensitive at the time, so that didn't reach their threshold. Then there was no problem with that. Or when Fidelitas, who is very often involved in harassment of elderly pensioners and night-time posters, allegedly launched an anti-poster campaign on his own initiative. Then there's no problem with that. There is no need to examine transparency or lack of transparency. There's no hidden funding, no discounts, no discounts, nothing like that. How long do you think this very harsh double standard will last? Don't try to make the opposition look stupid or bird to the slightest extent. You can see from a distance what they really intend to do with this. And then they try to talk about transparency and so forth with a pious elf face - as if it had only just begun a few days ago - about transparency and so forth. How transparent is the management of the CF? It is there that party funding should be examined, my dear fellow Member Vas, how direct or indirect or multiplely it has been hidden several times. That's a hell of a place to look for strings like that. The way the COF is financed, the way the Fidelist is financed, and who knows what other organizations. When something happens for their own good, they are never sensitive and never listen to such questions. It is true that my fellow Member Hadházy is not in the Chamber at the moment, I see that he has gone out to make a call, but I have already told him here in a live word, and I would repeat that I urged him to be very careful, and I said that he should not believe a word of it, not even by chance, not even the questions. Because if you have now seen an opportunity to support the three amendments to the LMP in some form, and thus bring them into the woods, in the middle of the forest, and therefore the LMP will vote for the unvoted, then I am sure - and I have said this to you - that either by amending other laws, by amending, where appropriate, a half majority of laws, or simply by arbitrary application of the law, by official extermination, they will neute what they would, in principle, in a fraudulent manner, vote positively for them. It may be supported now or even said that it is supported at the level of real content, but that in reality will not happen in the next ten months, I dare to take cyanide in bulk. So the opposition is doing the right thing when it is extremely cautious, when we turn our sense of danger to the maximum level and do not keep it at the level of a two-year-old child. Especially ten months before the elections, nothing should be believed, no mundanes should be taken, and siren sounds should not sit up, because it can have very serious consequences. So for my part, I am going to do everything I can to dissuade the good LMP representatives from being insane, to vote for you in whatever form, because they are playing with zinc cards, because they are trying to lead them, and they would do it in such a way that, by then, whether the LMP or any other faction will be completely powerless, I am absolutely sure that I am firmly convinced. So perhaps it would be best to avoid another big burn, to withdraw this proposal, to begin to unravel corruption, leading by the fabulous wealth of Lőrinc Mészáros - not only in the country, they are interested in genius at global level! How can you do that? How can someone grow so much? And smarter than the inventor or owner of Facebook? Allow me to say that, to put it mildly, the gentleman is not an intellectual heavyweight, and then I was very gentle, feminine and modest. Clearly, he can be entrusted with hundreds of billions of dollars, completely calmly, with or without posters, because he will not leave with him, he is not strong enough physically, mentally or in contact capital to possibly try to take it away from the real owner; so he is in the right place. You don't have to worry about him going out with him. This should be dealt with at the level of transparency, and once these strands have been rolled up, it will be possible to come to Parliament with a comprehensive amendment of a law on full electoral procedure, and there will be a five-party consensus there, because if that were to be done correctly, it would be there, but there is no way for that to happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-31-66	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2017-05-31-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can't and I don't want to say it any other way. That's impertinent, that's impertinent what they're doing. Practically unlimited amounts of money are being managed or raided - I don't know exactly what the correct wording is - when you use resources for government propaganda, as has already been said in this House, even to advertise lies. [[13.20]] You can't really forbid that, it's gonna go away when the Fidest people are gonna get rid of it. The existence of a level playing field, says my fellow Member Hadházy, in the advertising market? You know, this is also going to happen if the Fidesz doesn't govern - it's one of the conditions - because Fidesz doesn't know this use of the word, it's a level playing field. The Fidesz knows only a way of speaking about him, showing the strongest possible existence of his position of power. So what I'm trying to say is that this story, which is now taking place between the walls of this House, is actually a kind of charade, and on the other hand it raises the difference of interest between two parties in Fidesz and Jobbik, which was not a very big problem as long as there were one-way movements, while it was clear where Lajos Simicska was located. But, as has been said, since G-day's appearance, this is coupled with a redecorating process, and obviously on the new surface the new forces are trying to move in order to keep their interests safe. No! Not some people's interests should not be harmed, but generally there should be a level playing field in the advertising market. But I'm telling you, as long as the Fidesz is in power, it doesn't exist, and they can only be in power. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-31-68	Thank you. We now return to the normal speeches. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2017-05-31-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Indeed, the opposition would have the opportunity not to comment on this, because it is indeed a kind of infighting between Fidesz and Jobbik. But sometimes there are sentences in this House that you just can't tolerate, and you can't leave me alone. You may remember that, Mr Vas, although you weren't the one who was taking the fall, as is customary at the time, but the representative and member of the government appointed for this role was different, then Szűcs was still a member of the government. Erika sat in that chair - sorry, Madam Secretary was sitting in that chair. The important thing was that we discussed the electoral procedural law at the time, and in the debate on the electoral procedural law, in the seven-hour debate, Mr Secretary of State, one of your predecessors once did not speak to him. But not only was the government representative not active, but the Fidesz Members were not active. Opponents - perhaps we were present in this round, Commissioner Gyüre, that he was here in that debate, I remember him - we have made many arguments about what we do not like in this proposal. You have not adopted a single amendment, which was substantial on the part of the opposition. Please tell me what kind of compromise we were talking about here. ? What a common understanding we're talking about! ? When, by the way, there was a case-by-case committee on the electoral law that was supposed to draw up these principles, and then they lived with the same method as they did a little later at the Constitutional Prep ad hoc committee to do their job, to fool around, because otherwise, somewhere else, they will write a text with a completely different concept, which will come before Parliament. It was the Fundamental Law, and it was the election law and the electoral procedural law. None of them had anything to do with what could have been said formally at all, that it had to do with any compromise or compromise. Transparency, as in the other word, which I can tell you, from your mouth, even if you say it, is outrageous, let's not mention it. The other thing is, let's not go back to the five or six-year-old past: we just had a five-party agreement on electoral laws a little while ago, especially because I was on our side. And you know, my fellow Members, what happened was that Vice-President Gergely Gulyás, who took the initiative, said in the first place that they should not make any substantive amendments. There was a draft text that was sent to us, from which we could roughly read - there was only a debate between us at the meeting that it would mean about 20 or 25 thousand extra votes for you in the next election - that this could be voted on, and perhaps some technical amendments could still be added. In particular, these are the words that our fellow Member Gergely Gulyás said that the electoral law is the red line, the five-party line, that is, a red line that cannot be touched. After that - I say too - there were brazen ones who said at a statement and a press conference that, from now on, the opposition was responsible for all the mistakes of the electoral procedural law and the electoral law, because it was not compromiseable. And now Mr Secretary of State agrees with this opinion. Well, don't be ridiculous. Mr. Secretary, you're laughing at it. But it's not a joke! This is Parliament, and the electoral law and electoral procedural law are the basis of democracy! If so, what kind of willingness to compromise, what kind of common understanding, what transparency are you talking about? ! Tell me, please. Then, to go a little further back, perhaps, I remember - while we are at the posters - when you were owned by a company that did not belong to you, or owned the company that was entitled to place posters on the columns, this opportunity was removed because you said it was dangerous. Oh, that's interesting. Then a few months later, when this company broke down and bought it for pennies, your oligarch, friend of the Prime Minister [[Dr. István Apáti: Friend of the Rope!]] And then here in this chair, Secretary General Major said that he wasn't an accident risk, and that he was reconfigured. I asked you if there was a survey, some kind of impact assessment that changed your opinion. No, they're just thinking different now. You guys think people are stupid! But they're not, Mr. Secretary. They are not, honourable Members. Two more thoughts on compromise! There is virtually no analysis company in Hungary - except, of course, those created by you, let's say, the View Point or the Centre for Fundamental Rights - which says: that each element of the changes in the electoral law and electoral procedural law, which are new compared to the previous system, favour Fidesz. Every single one of them! There is no company, there is no research facility, there is no study in which it can be read that only you and only you have benefited from all the elements of the change. That's the common understanding? That's the spirit of compromise? You gotta be kidding me. Finally, I would just like to conclude by perhaps discussing with your fellow Member Gergely Gulyás, mentioned today, how he thought his sentences then, because when this five-party failure, he said that there would be no more of these, there will be no proposal for a change in legislation related to and related to several elections because he considers - in agreement with the Venice Commission and other international and international organisations, analysts and researchers, otherwise familiar with this area - that, in one year's time, any legislative amendment or amendment to the election-related legislation, especially without compromise, should not be allowed or not be democratic in relation to the elections. If I interpret it correctly, then we are within a year now, by law we cannot be outside of it. If that's what Gergely Gulyás thinks, Mr. Secretary, why don't you? Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[13.30]]
u2017-05-31-70	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2017-05-31-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the reasons for this proposal, and I will tell you frankly that I have almost tears in my eyes, I have so much pity for Fidesz and KDNP, how unfairly they are going to get into the background here, with what an amazing disadvantage they have in the elections, how they do not have the chances of choosing; here, opposition parties have such an advantage over poor Fidesz, that I even see that in 2018, Fidesz will no longer have a chance and will have to use such tools. Let us see what they do if billionaires and related financial groups want to influence democratic electoral competition. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm shocked. For decades, you have taken advantage of this opportunity to bring billions to your side, who have then been filled with public procurement, state orders, EU funds, and continue to do so today to have the money for everything. They're talking about themselves when they're talking about billionaire businesses! They write down exactly their own two decades of practice here in this explanatory statement that, yes, you thought it was equal opportunities to stand by the Fidesz, all state money into the billionaires, they back it up. It was your tactics all along. They're trying to distort the chances of the election. Amazing! It is clear what my fellow Member, Mr Gergő Bárándy, said, everyone who analyses the current situation says that Fidesz has an amazing advantage, all the legislation, all the circumstances help them and they have it. If there's something distorted here, it's all distorted to you. Disarmament? Yes, there is a need for transparency. They say that everyone should pay the price of that poster, that commercial, everyone should pay. But with what money, I ask, because that's the point of what kind of money! If the Jobbik put up a poster - what money? My fellow Member from Father said that it is safe to check the management of Jobbik, to see how much money we put up that poster. Yeah, we're putting up posters with the party's strictly crammed, put together, saved money. And then how do posters that are mysteriously put on the streets by camouflaged NGOs or undercover organizations against a person worth hundreds of millions of forints, against any party, clearly against the odd opposition parties, because you are terrified of these opposition parties, so that you will not be held accountable after 2018 for the management of the eight years you have committed or the decades before! That's what you're afraid of being held accountable. Let's see what kind of money the posters embarrassing Jobbik, the posters embarrassing opposition parties came out of. I am not questioning them, they may have come out at market prices and in accordance with this legislation. But who paid for them, I beg you, who paid for them when everyone denied it? The Ministry? Well, they didn't give me money for this. State organization? They didn't give me money for this. State firm? No one gave me one. Then, on a request for information, it turned out that the state money was 500 million forints, half a billion forints. What do you call this when you use state money exclusively for party purposes? 500 million forints, half a billion forints are being used to discredit other parties! They say that in criminal law, I think, although, let's say, only a court can say that it's a crime, I can't say it, but I think there's a strong enough suspicion that they don't manage properly with public money. And when we talk about transparency, let's talk about this, how it costs 500 million forints on the table of some fake civil organization in order to bring down other parties, so obviously with the aim of what you write in the explanatory statement to influence or distort the results of the election. That's why! And in these things, who are the leaders in this country? Only the Fidesz, as it was on the slogan in 2010, is that, only the Fidesz, and therefore you will do anything. Corruption? Corruption begins right here when public funds are distributed in a transparent way to civil society organisations or bogus NGOs in order to influence politics. This is also corruption, gentlemen, when this happens, this is corruption, and this is what we have to watch. We would very much welcome legislation that would really make it transparent, which would really give us equal opportunities, when it is not that a person with a normal feeling can no longer turn on or listen to those public radios. 'Cause what's going on? There's a lot of propaganda going on in the news, nothing more than fidesz propaganda. You're talking about equal odds when public television, public media, is paid with public money, and that's only a Fidesz propaganda, only Fidesz can be presented in a positive way, and the other parties can't be presented in a positive way? ! Is this equal opportunities? At a time when journalists in Transylvania say that we shouldn't be angry, but they can't write anything down about Jobbik because they receive state aid, and the condition of state aid is that they get to write good things about Fidesz, they can only write bad things about MSZP, and they can't write anything about Jobbik, because that's the condition. Well, it's shocking, gentlemen. How, then, do you manage public funds when these public funds are used exclusively for party policy purposes? Infidel treatment is the minimum, at least the misdemeanor of unfaithful treatment occurs in a huge scale, billions, tens of billions, hundreds of billions, the chances of these crimes that - we believe - will therefore be accounted for by the majority of the current government after 2018 and those who are actually involved in these crimes, suspected or real crimes will have to bear responsibility. We trust and believe that these will be punished after 2018, because accountability has been delayed, but it will happen someday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2017-05-31-72	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Apáti for a two-minute comment.
u2017-05-31-73	Thank you very much. I'd like to start with a technical supplement. Learning from yesterday's events, I would like to clarify and clarify my previous louder remark, which I saw entered into the record. When Congressman Barándy spoke of the oligarch of Garancsi, Mr Garancsi, I said that the Prime Minister was a friend of the rope, and I added that there was a bond of rope between them. Since the term "cable" has been a great deal of dust about 15 years ago, and László Kövér has had a lot of problems with this, Fidesz is also very careful with the words. The application of the methodology of lip-reading calls for special caution to me personally, so I would like to point out that I was referring to the Prime Minister's literal quote when he said that he and Mr Garancsi had a cord friendship. Well, there's nothing to do, they liked each other on a skiing trip, they got close, there's nothing wrong with that. This is one of my favorite moments when, not including the LMP, we have not yet governed this country, yet openly or openly, we are responsible for almost everything. Lajos Simicska received an unbound order, an order during the Fidesz-KDNP governments, less, but also received a good deal during the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, so no one should refer to what organizations or parties he is related to here, because he was connected or connected to everyone but us. So be careful with those words! The other one. What Csaba Gyüre has just said shows the Bolshevik methodology, the far-left Bolshevik attitude that you testify to, the essence of which I would say to the Hungarian MEPs in particular, that we are obviously wrongfully accusing our political opponent of what they openly know they are doing on a daily basis. So you do these things on a daily basis, which we are wrongly accused of. That's all there is to it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-05-31-74	Thank you. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. [[Dr. István Apáti: Secretary of State, isn't it?]] The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Congressman Vas Imre, as rapporteur, if he wishes to comment. [[On Dr. Vas Imre's signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-75	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to signal to those who have followed the debate on any IT device that the debate here is about the amendment proposed by Ákos Hadházy, which, by the way, is 11/G. Section 144/A was rewritten and wanted in the electoral procedural law. to insert paragraph 1. I didn't hear much about these during the debate. [[13.40]] I understand that the right-wing Members spoke to him in a very heated manner, as your bread-payer has a significant amount of public advertising, and this obviously concerns his interests, and apparently also made this available to Jobbik. Another issue is that the State Audit Office can only verify what is in the books, in the records. That doesn't go into the records. [[Dr. István Apáti: Get in!]] not known by the State Audit Office [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Don't start with yourself, Imre. Dr. István Apáti: Get in!]] check. Another issue is that Mr Apáti, but also Mr Gyüre, in part, tried to pin their own political failure on the whole country here. This has already been done several times in the Committee on Justice by Mr Apáti. [[Dr. István Apáti: You can't stand the truth!]] I understand your frustration, your political failure, but that doesn't mean the country's failure, and that's what you're trying to see. Several people were concerned about who had the money to fund the campaign. The truth is, fellow Members, if you had read the electoral and electoral procedural laws, you would know that all nominating organisations and candidates have the same amount of resources. [[There's a lot of information in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's too bad we didn't read it, that's why we don't know!]] during the campaign period. [[Dr. István Apáti: There is no such thing in the world! If you believe that, Imre, there's a big problem. You have to stop now, at the top!]] The majority of this is state aid, so the parties and the candidates are individual... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:...and the COF is supported by the state. Intercoms from Jobbik: Yes, right!]] Thank you very much. I've listened to you, and I hope you'll hear me out. I would say to Mr Bárándy that since the change of regime, Parliament has passed two electoral procedural laws in Hungary, one in 1997 and the other in 2013. In my memory, Erika Szűcs was not a State Secretary once, either in 97 or [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Erika Szabó, sorry. That was really my mistake! Erika Szabó, good, correct!]] In 2013. And by the way, I think that in the final vote, we'll find out, probably in two weeks' time, [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We already know!]] who is in favour of transparency will support the adoption of the bill, who is not on the side of transparency, who will vote with no, or who will abstain or who does not come into the room. So I would ask those present to reconsider their position - probably 13 days before the final vote on this proposal - what they will say to the electorate in the election campaign, that, by the way, Fidesz had a proposal that would have helped to expand transparency, but we voted against it, because it might have been the request of the owner of the Better Bread Tax. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I don't know what your request was, but I'm just thinking out loud here. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Imre, do you believe what you're saying?]] The MSZP obviously has what one of the owners has to say. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Full poster, Imre! You won't even notice. It's flooding the streets!]] What can be voted on and what cannot be voted on. There are some parties for the Prime Minister's candidacy [[Dr. István Apáti: You are a true Bolshevik couple!]] his first journey led straight to Brussels. So we understand where the wind blows in respect of which party. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes, we are a European party. That's true. Unlike you!]] So please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-76	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was possible to propose amendments to its Members until the conclusion of the general debate that was reopened. Next up is the 1997 LXVIII on the service relationship of judicial staff. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/15785. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mariann Water East, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2017-05-31-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to adapt the rights and obligations of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutors to the salaries, rights and obligations of public officials in particular. This became necessary for the following reasons. With the entry into force of the Act on State Officials on 1 January 2017 for government officials of the metropolitan and county government offices, the existing alignment between government officials of the metropolitan and county government office and officials of the judicial and non-prosecution prosecutors' office ceased. The consistency has so far been as follows: according to a law passed in 2001, the salaries of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff must not be less than the salaries of government officials. If, on the basis of the different methods of calculating salaries, a lower salary had been paid to judicial staff and prosecutorial staff, the difference had to be paid under the heading of the so-called career differential. With the entry into force of the rules on state officials, government officials from the metropolitan and county government offices have become state officials and a new salary system has been introduced that does not use the concepts of basic salary, salary supplements, and instead sets pay bands with minimum and maximum values. Within the band, the practitioner of the employer's powers shall determine the salary of the public official. In view of this, it was not possible to establish consistency with the modification of the salary of the career differential, taking into account the radical differences in salary systems. This is why a comprehensive re-regulation of the subject has become necessary. In addition, in view of the high turnover of officials with secondary education in the judicial and prosecutor's organisation, it has become essential to settle the salaries of officials with this degree in order to preserve the functioning of the judicial system. They are, by the way, the majority of the judicial and prosecutorial staff. The aim was, therefore, to bring the rights and obligations of judicial and public prosecutorial staff, in particular, in relation to their salaries, in line with those of the State, with regard to the independence of the judiciary guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. In order to establish the most appropriate regulation, the judicial portfolio has been continuously consulted with representatives of the professional order, the National Court Office, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office and the State institution of experts. So the proposal before us is the result of a more than six months of hard work. Dear House, The bill therefore amends two laws, namely the 1997 LXVIII on the service relationship of judicial staff. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. Law. [[13.50]] The law on the status of judicial staff determines the status of persons such as the court author, the court secretary, the official, the clerk or the judicial expert, the candidate for expert and the technician. The law on the status of prosecutors and other public prosecutors' servants in addition to prosecutors, who are not affected by this bill, regulates, for example, the status of the assistant prosecutor, the prosecutor's author, the official and the clerk. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to explain the main provisions of the bill without the need for completeness. The bill introduces a new salary system similar to that of state officials, but taking into account the specificities of the judicial organisation system, for the aforementioned staff. This means that a single-track salary system will be introduced, the application of which requires greater responsibility from the employer. At the same time, it provides an opportunity to manage a salary that is more proportionate to the duties and performance of judicial and public prosecutorial staff. The majority of the salary hijackings, career differences and allowances will be eliminated by using the fixed pay scheme. At the same time, it is a guarantee that judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff are always entitled to pay the salary at the lower limit under subject law. Of the allowances, the schedule and the replacement titles remain. This means that the allowances are, in principle, incorporated into the fixed pay scheme. The lower and upper limits of the bands are determined by a multiplying number. As a general rule, the multipliers setting the lower limit of the fixed salary system are already higher than the current multipliers, so that a 30 per cent increase may occur for the staff concerned. The highest rate of salary increase is applied to officials with secondary education, judicial and public prosecutorial authors, judicial experts and candidates for experts, who form the backbone of the organisation system. The rate of increase is well illustrated by the fact that for those with secondary education, the factor determining the basic salary will increase from 0.2 to nearly 0.38, i.e. from HUF 90 660 to HUF 164 thousand. But also in the case of the court and prosecutor, the lower limit of the starting salary will rise from HUF 207 thousand to HUF 230 000. It is important to point out that lane boundaries are also increasing in proportion to service time, thus ensuring a predictable career. Dear House, The new legislation also provides for the possibility for the employer to set the salary of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff with a particular task or special expertise within the statutory limit. With this change, services provided so far by external entrepreneurs, such as IT, can be provided significantly more economically and internally. This is not only a more economical but also a safer solution. It is of guarantee that the salary of the judicial staff will continue to be adjusted to the amount of the minimum basic salary of the judge or, in the case of the salary of non-prosecutorial prosecutorial staff, to the amount of the salary of the prosecutor, while maintaining the current legislation. The bill guarantees that the salary fixed following the entry into force of the amendment must not be less than before the amendment and that the number of days off may not be reduced. It is also important to note that the proposal will pay back salaries as of 1 January 2017. In view of the fact that the status of the designated secretary is special, since it acts under the jurisdiction of the judge in the case laid down by law, the bill states that it is entitled to a fixed salary within the limits of its level of payment. In the case of designated secretaries, since, as I mentioned above, they are acting in judicial power, having regard to Article 27 (3) of the Fundamental Law, it also contains specific rules on the modification and termination of the legal relationship in addition to the provisions on remuneration. Dear House, The bill also includes a number of tightening-ups in accordance with the Law on State Officials, in order to compensate for the reform of the salary system and for ensuring consistency. On the basis of the bill, rules on the formation, modification, termination of the legal relationship and training and further training are also tightened according to the legal status of state officials. These include, inter alia, strengthening the provisions on probation and the immediate termination of the relationship, the obligation to repay the severance allowance in some cases in a proportionate manner and the imposition of penalties for non-compliance with the obligation to participate in further training. An institution for benchmarking will be introduced, which will have to be carried out annually, and the basic salary of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff may be adjusted within the band. The cafeteria allowance shall be abolished, which shall be included in the basic salary set out in the bands. In order to ensure consistency between the salary systems of public officials, judicial and non-prosecution prosecutors' staff, the institution of career differences will also be abolished. In addition, it is a guarantee that the President of the National Court Office and the Attorney General are the new regulators, such as the detailed rules for benchmarking and further training, and the main prosecutor. Dear House, In conclusion, I would like to ask you to allow me to say that the bill establishes the fullest possible consistency between the rights and obligations of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutors and the rights and obligations of state officials within the constitutional framework. It also provides a forward-looking regulation to prevent the emigration of judicial and public prosecutorial workers and increases professional appreciation. I therefore recommend the bill to the Parliament's attention, and I ask for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-78	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-31-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is clear and clear, because it wants to resolve a legal situation that has arisen by changing the rules on civil servants and public officials. We would like to ensure that the salaries of judicial staff are in line with these laws, so it is clear that the laws on judicial staff and the status of prosecutorial staff also need to be amended. I would like to point out that this proposal brings a complex solution to the Parliament on the salaries of judicial staff and prosecutorial staff, as it is also apparent from the reports of the National Court Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office that there has been a very dangerous fluctuations among judicial and prosecutorial staff, but especially among judicial staff. [[14.00]] The emigration was due to the fact that, despite two increases of 5 per cent between 1 October 2016 and 1 January 2016, the salaries of the officials of the state would not be achieved by the salary of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutors. The solution to the problem outlined is to bring judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff and public officials' rights, such as salaries and obligations, into line as fully as possible. In view of this, their salary shall consist, on the basis of the proposal, of basic salary and, if the conditions for payment laid down by law are met, of a post allowance and a replacement title. In the light of the specificities of the judicial organisation system, the weightings necessary for the calculation of basic salary are maintained, but, like the salary system of the Public Officials Act, the proposal establishes lanes assigned to each step of payment, the lower and the upper value of which is given by a multiplying number. In summary, the proposal deletes, as a general rule, the system of allowances from the salary system of judicial staff and prosecutorial staff, as in the law of state employees. The job, language, hazard and supplementary allowance will be provided, while job and title replacements will remain. It is of guarantee that the legislation in force maintains that the basic salary of judicial staff remains the same as the minimum basic salary of the judicial staff or, in the case of basic salary of non-prosecutorial prosecutorial staff, is equal to the basic salary of the prosecutor. To add, these two have been the same for decades. I am pleased to say that the application of the above rules will allow a significant increase in salaries of at least 10 per cent and in some cases up to 30 per cent in the case of intermediate-level administrators. The scale of the increase is well illustrated by the increase in the multiplier of the basic salary from 0.2 to 0,38 in the case of secondary graduates in the case of the first step. But who's entitled to the schedule allowance? In the central administration, the staff of the judicial and non-professional prosecutors working in the Curia, the National Court of Justice and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the judicial staff of the judicial experts' institutions are primarily entitled to the post. One of the most important parts of the proposal is that the salary system thus established does not generate any additional wage voltage within the judicial system. In addition, judicial experts, court secretaries, and candidates for experts will be placed in separate salary tables adapted to the salary tables of the judges, thus entitled to the same number of posts as the court secretary assigned to the Curia and the court author. Consequently, the minimum salary limit for experts is increased by at least 50%. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports T/15785. a proposal for a law, submitted on the basis of which it is intended to ensure that the judicial organisation system retains its key employees, while at the same time stopping the emigration of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff. I ask you, in the light of what you have just heard, to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-31-80	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2017-05-31-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, This is, or at least, a number of proposals that are about trying to prevent judicial employees from choosing, because of their scandalously low salary, the role and occupation of filling goods in Tesco rather than keeping their own, because they can earn better money there. He has also had a proposal to Mr Völner, State Secretary, who is also present in the debate, but at that time not as State Secretary, but as a representative in the presentation of his representatives, but in the end it did not become anything but a promise. Now, I think, with this proposal, you want to deliver on this promise that you will want to achieve and realise a salary increase in the judicial staff sector. The problem is, if I look at these suggestions, either the previous one or this one, then I think of the saying that "not wanting" is the end of a moan. We understand that the Prime Minister considers the judiciary to be a pariah and does not wish to contribute to any increase in salaries, which is substantial and not shameful, i.e. three times five percent. Therefore, the Ministry is forced to think in various alternative solutions, in alternative solutions that are otherwise useful for one thing, that their results are extremely small, but the system that has worked so far confuses it to the fullest extent. Contrary to what my fellow Member Vas Imre has said, I firmly believe and the judges strongly believe that it will result in serious wage tensions within the system of justice. Allow me to make some general statements. One of the things that sounds very nice is what the president of the OBH has said more than once is that the goal is to have the best people for justice. It is common for me to say another saying to this situation that we are sitting on the horse backwards, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State. It is not that we can choose or that the leaders in the court organization can choose who they want to keep or hire as a judicial employee, but that there are about 150-200 vacant posts that they cannot fill, because there is no man to do this job for that amount of money. So I think that, first of all, we should undress the kind of hypocrisy that we want to achieve a qualitative improvement in the negotiation of the proposal. No. For the time being, we want to ensure that the 150-200 vacant posts will not be hundreds or thousands within the court system because of underpaid employees. Then, if this job is uploaded and it is worth choosing again, this profession is chosen, because I think that not only the judicial but also this can be a profession, then it is worth thinking about the incentives we will be able to get the best of them. For now, let's at least try to upload the 150-200 jobs that we don't have right now. The other, which is your concept, let me put it this way, is that instead of using automation, the worker is put in a much more vulnerable position from the administrative director. Of course, you do not put it that way, but by giving more leeway to administrative managers in the context of pay, remuneration, reward and other findings. However, let me translate it the way I just did, which is to put judicial staff in a more vulnerable position with the employer, the administrative director, through their wages. Moreover, this is not just about payment terms or changes in payment terms, but about this, for example, the possibility of an immediate exemption, which has not been fashionable and has not been possible in the judiciary so far. [[14.10]] What you have said, by the way, is this kind of approach, and I can honestly say that I can only reject it, at least as regards comparing judicial staff and the rules applicable to them with state officials. I don't know when the government will finally understand that the court is an independent branch of power and not part of the administration system. A separate branch of power with independent rules, independent structures, special rules, is not part of the administration. Not only are the judges not the judges, neither are the judicial staff, some of whom, by the way, will later become judges. In fact, some of them, as Mrs Secretary of State rightly said, already carry out judicial duties, are acting as judges. So, as a judge and employee, they are not part of the administrative system, so neither the level of payment, nor the classifications, nor the order of reward, nor the method of setting the allowances, can be and must not be adapted to the administrative system. It should not be because it should prevail here much more, as it has been before, the automations, and much less the leadership favor, if you will, or the leaders of independent sovereign decisions. Let me give you an example. For now, we're dealing with judges, but obviously with employees, if the judges do, they'll be even more so. When has a judge recently received a reward, for example? If the required amount was the number of endings. We know today, because there was a court order in public, a court order that required ten cases a month. It doesn't matter if someone's dealing with serious and diverse cases with thousands, tens or hundreds of thousands of pages, or just some chicken lawsuit, the point is that ten is ten. Make it ten, you'll be rewarded. Madam Secretary, do you know the outcome of this? And Curia judges say - and there's a causal link, and not just statistical numbers - that three times as many cases have been dismissed in the last year at the Curia. Three times as many cases as the last three years. This means that in the hope of compliance or reward, at least some of the judges would fulfill these ten a month, simply grabbing and colliding matters. The judges in Curia expressly say that due to cases that have been collided over two years and have ended quickly, they do not stand up to the professional standard that is, say, necessary for a maintenance, but will be repealed. In other words, cases do not accelerate with anything, because they will have to be renegotiated. On the other hand, this kind of expectation, this kind of attitude, is exactly where it leads. The production competition announced by the president of the OBH, where it is practically Stahanov who completes several cases over a unit of time, and, if possible, a case more than two years old, this leads to a three-fold repeal. My problem is, if the judges try, it seems like they've already adapted to this system, then what will happen to the law enforcement staff? How this will work, and I don't just mean the descriptive one, let's say, a court author or a court secretary, not necessarily those who are appointed secretaries, but, in general, a court secretary. I consider this to be extremely flawed in his view, and these are precisely the steps and this is the attitude that violates judicial independence in an extraordinary way. The other, and this, is conceptually linked to the same subject, is that this proposal separates employees' salaries from the salaries of judges. [[For signal:]] But if I know this wrong, Madam Secretary, then it's okay, if that's the case, then what I'm going to do is wait for the Secretary of State to answer that, and I'm not going to talk about it until after. Because, again, if that's the case, it's gonna really cause a lot of wage tension. [[Dr. Water East Mariann: That's not true.]] Okay, let's get this over with. What I have heard, what I have seen, or what I should say is best known is that the OBH - because the Secretary of State made reference to this, by the way, that there was such a negotiation, it was true, indeed - has made extremely serious criticisms of the proposal, and the Judicial Association has done the same. To mention some of these. According to the OBH, judicial staff are more disadvantaged by this proposal, which may be affected by judicial operation and generate fluctuations, even in this case further fluctuations, and can put the system in a critical position. The proposal is, by the way, illegal in several places. I've found a place, I'll go there. The other is that the OBH had an impact assessment, if I know that, and I think that I know that, after which it was written, it is completely unfounded to say that the salaries of administrators and officials will be 20-30 percent higher, as the draft says. The OBH also says, and as I understand it, the Judicial Association agrees that the proposal does not ensure that the additional obligations are accompanied by additional benefits, as in the case of public officials, and here the criticism is generally raised that the draft cannot create either the rise in the salary of the judicial staff, the real one, or the consistency of the public officials' salary system with the judicial system, of course, I am thinking of the financial system. Well, if that's true, and if that's true, then I'd like to know what the Ministry's position is, at least to my knowledge, this is. What I would definitely like to discuss in the keynote speech is the abolition of cafeteria. For my part, this is where I found the point where the proposal is specifically unconstitutional or unconstitutional. Because with a noble simplicity, you will abolish, eliminate the cafetheria and claim that these provisions will be laid down in the Lasz., which is, of course, not a two-thirds, not a fundamental law. Yes, ma'am, but the legal basis for the cafeteria benefit of judicial staff is not Lasz. He's creating it. The detailed rules are indeed there, for example, the options and permissions of the president of the OBH to determine it, but the legal basis for the benefit itself does not come from there, but from Bsi., which is the 76th. Paragraph 3 (f), and if so, the Bsi. It's a two-thirds, a fundamental law. If the legal basis is recorded there, then this cannot be overwritten by a half of the law. Thus, the fact that cafeteria is due to judicial employees is recorded in a two-thirds law, the abolition of this can be done if the two-thirds consent to this Parliament, and we take this provision out of the Bsi. I would just like to say for the future that, in this respect, we certainly do not need to, because we are not contributing in any way to the abolition of cafeteria. I would suggest that at least this rule should be taken out of this law, since at least there should be no constitutional infringement. Since the time is finite, and then in the debate we will talk a little bit about this separation from the judicial salary, because it seems to me that I have misinterpreted this, but I see that in itself the objective that it is intended to achieve with it, namely to increase the salary base by 20 to 30 percent, seems that this proposal will not be able to resolve. The other thing you're trying to do is make it look similar to the rules that apply to state officials, and I can't agree with that part of what I said. Therefore, since there are a lot of problems, principles and otherwise practical excuses and problems with the proposal, we will not be able to support this, but, nevertheless, if there are proposals that will improve the system, we will consider their support. Thank you very much for the floor. [[14.20]]
u2017-05-31-82	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-31-83	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For 15 years now, the 1997 LXVIII on the service relationship of judicial staff, in order to ensure consistency between the remuneration system of government officials and judicial and public prosecutors and public prosecutors. Act CLXIV of 2011 on the status of the Attorney General, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of the prosecutor. The institution of a career difference forms part of the Act. The basic salary for judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff classified in three categories shall not be less than CXCIX of 2011 on the status of public service officials at a specified level of public administration. basic salary plus statutory salary supplement. The 2016 LII on state officials. A new system of salaries has been introduced by law, which does not use the concepts of basic salary, salary supplement, salary allowance applied so far, and instead defines pay bands with minimum and maximum values, within which the person exercising the powers of the employer determines the institution of the State official. As a consequence, from 1 January 2017 the Lasz. And the Hollow. Its salary system has been cut off from the new system of salaries of public officials. The salary of judicial and non-prosecutorial prosecutorial staff does not reach the salary of public officials even after the increase of the civil servants' salary of 1 October 2016 and 5 per cent on 1 January 2017 which may result in a large migration. The solution to the problem outlined is to bring judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff and public officials' rights into full compliance, such as salaries and obligations. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of this, on the basis of the bill, the salary shall consist of basic salary, post allowances and replacement titles. In view of the specificities of the judicial organisation system, the multiplication factors necessary for the calculation of basic salary remain, but the Avg. Like his salary system, the bill establishes lanes assigned to the grades of each step, each given by a multiplying number. The proposal is Lasz. And the Hollow. It shall in principle abolish the system of allowances from its salary system. The job, language, hazard and supplementary allowance will be provided, while job and title replacements will remain. The reason for this is, on the one hand, that, with regard to the post-employment bonus, there should be no reduction in salaries at the highest level of justice. And the replacements did not take place because they would affect the fundamental powers of the president of the OBH. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is of guarantee that the salary of the judicial staff will continue to be equal to the minimum basic salary for the judges, while maintaining the current legislation. By applying these rules, on the one hand, the wage tension resulting from the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage will be managed and, on the other hand, it will also be possible to increase salaries by up to 30 per cent in the case of secondary-skilled administrators. The purpose of the bill is to allow the judicial system to retain its key employees for the operation of the system and to stop the removal of judicial and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff from the judicial system. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of the proposal, employment with a contract of employment is possible, so courts and prosecutors with legal personality can employ employees with a high-priority function or special expertise by paying more flexible and, where appropriate, close to market conditions compared to the previous regulatory regime. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal introduces the following main measures in order to further align rights and obligations. The probation provisions are tightened; the cases in which the service can be terminated with immediate effect are extended; the obligation to repay the termination allowance in proportion is imposed in the event that a judicial and non-prosecution staff member establishes a new service with a public body established within a short period of time after the termination of his service; the managers will also be obliged to attend an annual training course. The bill makes benchmarking mandatory. In respect of the designated Secretary, he shall be entitled to a fixed salary at the ceiling. With regard to severance payments and cafeteria benefits, the Avatv. The lass is amended in accordance with its provisions. And the Hollow. the provisions of this Regulation. As a guaranteed element, the salary shall not be less and the rate of freedom shall not be reduced. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T/15785. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-84	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-31-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The Secretary of State spoke about the extent to which the high turnover of the officials' staff among officials with secondary education can be observed and how characteristic it is in the judicial and prosecutorial sphere. Tünde Hando, the President of the OBH, also spoke about this to the media, and said that while wages have increased significantly in some areas of private and public sector, there has been a fallout in justice that, in some cases, endangers the retention of workers and the functioning of the public sector. For example, in one of the courts, President-in-Office of the OBH, the heads of the minutes stood up at the same time to go to the local hypermarket to charge goods, because they received an income of 10-15 thousand forints, the president of the OBH noted, reports the media. So the most fundamental problem is that wages are low, they are not valued, there is a very heavy workload and there is a great responsibility for these workers. I also highlighted the problem of the wages of judicial staff, including the problem of the wages of judges and prosecutors, and I told them how responsible the work of judicial staff is; that it does not matter whether a warrant is issued, when a criminal is issued, God forbid, he is released, he is not released, it is all going through their hands, because of their fault, a criminal, a very serious criminal may escape, if he makes a mistake. They have a lot of pressure, a lot of work, a lot of work, a lot of responsibility, a lot of mistakes. So there's a lot of work, a lot of responsibility, and they're not appreciated. And that means that if they went to work elsewhere for 10-15 thousand forints extra, then the working conditions themselves would not be such that they would be so valued that they would want to stay there. [[14.30]] And why they are not appreciated, primarily because the judges themselves are not appreciated, the prosecutors themselves are not properly appreciated, as we have repeatedly called to the attention of opposition representatives to the government, which we have said a hundred times that, unfortunately, Hungary is the EU's driving force in the area of justice. The judges and prosecutors are in the last place, regardless of the two-fold 5% wage increase that took place in November and January 1, but they are still in the last place. As the Secretary of State said that she was linked, here she referred to my fellow Member Bárándy's speech as to whether their wages are related to the salary of the judges, yes, it is related, because the basis for their classification is the judicial salary, so they receive a multiplier on the basis of it. Which would be a good thing if it were, so I think this form itself is a very good idea, but why it is not good in this case, I would like to talk about a few thoughts. Even when Mr Répássy was the Parliamentary Secretary of State for Justice, we had an argument about this when it was said that the salaries of judicial authors and secretaries should be increased and even increased, which was quite small. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary here wanted to achieve a much larger, I remember, 30 percent wage development, to which Mr. State Secretary's reply was that this cannot be solved, because it will cause wage tension. Why is it going to cause wage tension? He explained that because in this case the salary of the secretaries would be higher than the starting judicial salary, and that the theoretically lower court secretary would earn more than the starting judge; that is, such a wage voltage. And now the problem that my fellow Member Bárándy has also said is that because the court is considered undesirable for the government or the Prime Minister in this country, therefore, when the Fidesz government is in power in Hungary, unfortunately, judges and prosecutors have a bad world, because there is no increase in salaries for them, at least that is what the 11 years we talked about the Orbán administration showed. Indeed, twice five percent were achieved when the wage pressure was already enormous. Thus, until the judges' salary can be increased, this will also force the salary of the judicial staff to be reduced, since it is tied to the basic salary of the judge, if the basic salary of the judge does not increase, then the wages of the judicial staff cannot rise properly. And that's where we get to the outcome of the process of going to Tesco and working in other places because they're not so appreciated. And while we're at it, there's another problem. When I was preparing for my speech today, and I was reading about it in the press, I found news that two years ago, in Slovakia, there was a strike in the court because they found their pay was so low. When I read this article, it was interesting that they dared to go on strike and stopped it, although it is true that they had been on strike for several years before it, there were serious trade union negotiations, and eventually they went on strike. What kind of payments were there that they had to strike for? Their salary was not high, for for example, the salaries were from 130 to 140 thousand forints for scribes without a degree or with a secondary education, while for officials with a higher education degree we could talk about 200,000 forints of gross money. What they considered to be very controversial, which caused them to stand up and strike, is that they believe that they are doing responsible work similar to judges, and while many of the judges are earning €5,000, they are only earning €500 to €600. So it's amazing when we say that the judge in Slovakia makes 5 thousand euros, if we recalculate, it's 1 million 500 thousand forints. So this is a very, very serious amount of money, and we can say that in fact in Hungary the judges are very behind, it is no coincidence that the rush drivers are the prosecutors and the judges in the European Union, and if their wages are tied to it, then there really is no way for the judicial staff to make a living on the pressured wages that they have. If we look at this new pay table now, we say that there are a lot of things going forward, because there really are steps that make us think that there is a positive change. Madam Secretary of State immediately highlighted the pay table for the least educated in the field of judicial staff, which includes the wages of secondary-skilled workers. There is indeed a major change in this, almost a significant change, if I count it well, almost double the wage at this level. But we also need to look at it, and Madam Secretary has highlighted where the difference is greatest, but if we look at the others, we see that there is not a similar rise in all groups at all. Thus, the most typical of court secretaries, where there is virtually no progress, is that the absolute starting court secretary, who has so far had a 0.7 multiplier, is 0.84, so there is some difference here, but who, for example, has been a court secretary for 4-7 years, has been 0.9 times so far, and 0.9 is still the multiplier. I would add that this is indeed the minimum multiplier, so it can't be less, it can be more, or if I look at it, in the case of court secretaries with 8-11 years of law, the old rule was 1,0, and now the multiplier will be 0.98, so there is also a 0.02 withdrawal. Although I have to admit that the legislation includes that there can be no less pay, but if I consider that the cafeteria is practically wiped out in their case, there may be fewer benefits for a worker than there has been before, taking into account the cafeteria. So I have learned from the experience that it is certain that a relatively significant wage increase will be made for workers with the least education, which, I think, is very important for them, but the higher their education, the less this opportunity will be to raise wages, which, in turn, will lead to an increase in wages in a direction that will be quasi-appreciated by a court official with a lower education than a higher education, and that, obviously, in the medium term, in the long term, and even in the short term, the stock's education, to say, could lead to deterioration in its knowledge. So from this point of view, I think that those with higher education are not properly appreciated. I think that it is stipulated that, in some cases, they must attend courses and trainings, and even in the case of a leader, annual training is compulsory, which may not be important, then I say that training is important, but it is not yet properly appreciated. So I'm seeing some contradictions here, and it wouldn't hurt to change the concept at some level. What I did not like very much in this law, and we have received an explanation, and everyone has so far included the party of government, the governing parties in its speech, and the secretary of state has mentioned it, and this is when someone can be classified as an exceptional one, and not in an exceptional category, but not in relation to the pay table, which otherwise applies to everyone else, but takes out the employee and the working area from it, and says that he is extremely regarded as subject to the wage classification of the labour code, that he will be subject to the labour code, and in this case he may receive an extraordinary salary. How much this extraordinary salary was, I was surprised when I started to calculate it, and I looked at the average salary that the legislation is talking about, which says that ten times the average monthly gross salary for those working in a highly qualified job can be paid to the national economy for the previous year. I started to count this, I quickly looked at the amount in KSH, it came out that in 2016, so in January-December we talked about 263 200 forints, and ten times this is just 2 million 632 thousand forints, so this amount is slightly over 2.5 million forints, which can be given in this case. So I quickly came up with the reasons why this is necessary, and there I read that, well, there is a job that we would like to pay on a market basis - not exactly, but the market fund - and then I ask why we are not trying to pay everyone on a market basis, why we are not paying judges on a market basis, and what it looks like is that an official is going to earn HUF 2 million 630,000, and the judge is going to earn HUF 530,000, so a judge is going to earn a quarter or a fifth of it as an official. [[14.40]] So this is such a contradiction, and it will cause so much tension in the courts, but also in the prosecutors' office, because it also creates this priority position in the prosecution system. This could be abused, and I would also like to draw attention to that. If, where appropriate, an administrative manager puts someone in a priority position, they may be able to pay less, because only the ceiling is given in this case, that it may be tenfold, there is no way that he can give them the minimum wage; it is good, obviously not designed for this. What system will this create when the manager, the employer's practitioner, can choose 10 percent of his people, who he says are children, you will earn between 2 million and 2 million 500 thousand forints? In fact, if I look at the fact that the average monthly salary was HUF 298 300 in March 2017, this means that from 1 January, you can classify the employees in the priority position by almost HUF 3 million a month; this is a shocking number. It may be said that IT experts are needed, so far we have replaced them with entrepreneurs, and we have paid them an entrepreneurial fee, but this will cause a huge wage tension, where there will be an official who will earn 2 million 500 thousand, and next year will earn 3 million forints, and the judge will earn 530,000 forints. I think it should be changed in any way, or it should be stopped or reduced, but these are the numbers we talked about. It was the Orbán government that announced it in 2010, and the Prime Minister himself spoke. [[Pointing to the pulpit:]] As long as he is Prime Minister, there will be no incomes above HUF 2 million in Hungary, at least in the public sector, and then we know, Mr Matolcsy and others, that when he had to pay the party soldiers properly, they changed that, they did not take into account and did not respect their own principles. Obviously, this is also the case in the court system; but I see that my time is up and I will continue in a separate speech. Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2017-05-31-86	Thank you, Congressman. We now have a two-minute comment, and I give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr.
u2017-05-31-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is no question about the low incomes of judicial staff, which seems to be a threat to the functioning of the courts today. There is also a shortage of numbers, as my fellow Member Bárándy said, sometimes in the order of 200, sometimes 300 people, but there is no predictability, no objectivity in terms of incomes, nor in terms of their distribution. There are fantasies, Tünde Handó talks of 15 percent, of course Orbán speaks of three times 5 percent in three years, eliminating allowances, the cafetheria, as my fellow Member Bárándy said, basically, unconstitutionally. I have to say, what they're doing doesn't lead at random to a court today facing 30 percent fluctuations. Of course, in addition to all of this, it is only loyalty that counts, as is usually the case with you; no matter whether you are a writer, no matter whether you are a notary, or whether you are a man of administrative duties, these can be fired without bone, and immediate discharges can be made. Technically, I have to say, it's all for the kissers. In the previous comment, the qualification as a top position has been well developed, which may affect 10 percent of the current number, and in today's context, it can have such an income pairing of 2.5-2.7 million forints. I would be curious to see the Secretary of State put her reasons in favour of the circle of 10 per cent to be included in this priority post. In fact, what I would like to say in the last sentence is that you should not consider it a benefit that a salary of HUF 160,000 is also available at the secondary level. This is not a virtue, it is simply a result of the guarantee of a minimum wage; rather, look at the contributions they are pouring on these wages! Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-88	Thank you, Mr. Notary. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-31-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a brief comment, as Tünde Handó also made a presentation recently in the Committee on Budgets, giving a long justification for the need to raise the salaries of judges in a significant way. We were shocked to find that the Fidesz Members did not support this motion, although it would also provide a solution to this problem, since if the other colleagues working there were tied to the judges for their wages, and this would be a relatively simple solution: to raise the salaries of judges, this would increase the salaries of the employees there. If I understand correctly, it is not the first time that the Fidesz faction voted off the initiative of Tünde Hando, which is also interesting because he is not considered very distant from the government and the Fidesz politicians. For this reason, today's MSZP faction was living with a faction at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets, which reiterated the initiative that the President had taken. The fate of this initiative has also been the same as that of the previous ones, namely the Fidesz MEPs, despite the full opposition support, voted against this proposal for an increase in salaries drawn up by the Socialist Group. I would also ask the Secretary of State and other representatives of the Government to reconsider this, because it is indeed a system of institutions which is, on the one hand, heavily burdened and, on the other hand, an extremely important institution of all states of law. Today, it seems that the court is almost the last institution to show signs of the rule of law, so judges and employees deserve to have this wage increase for everyone in the courts. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-31-90	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-31-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to continue, because I still have a few things stuck in me. Speaking of paying for justice, I would also like to say that in 2004 there was the last wage arrangement, not taking into account this 10%, which was now implemented in November and January, within six months. It has been calculated that the value of real wages, i.e. their wages, has decreased by 50 per cent since 2004, and if I add this 10%, then we are talking about a 40 per cent real wage reduction. If the judges' salary has been reduced in this way, then, since the two salaries are linked, it has, of course, fallen in the same way for the judicial staff, for the prosecutors, for the prosecutors, for the prosecutors, and for the prosecutors, so at the moment, after the 10% wage increase, there is a 40% real wage reduction for them. And to that comes what this law introduces, as I said, for example, in the case of secretaries, it hardly increases or even increases the salary at all, especially when talking about the minimum. There is also the elimination of cafeteria, which is a specific legal problem, as my fellow Member Bárándy has already said, whether this can be done or whether it will be contrary to the Fundamental Law or to a fundamental law. It is also a problem in any way, we have observed that Fidesz is trying to govern, politicalize itself in such a way that he constantly makes himself appear in such a way that he is constantly in favour of catching up wages, even though when he gives someone an increase in wages, he takes away the various other benefits, wage allowances, and when that employee receives his monthly salary, his increased salary at the beginning of the month, he realizes that he has received nothing more than what he has already received, and that he has increased his salary by 20%, because he will not be entitled to this allowance, he will not be entitled to that cafetéria, this will not be. The government proclaims that, please, there was a 25 percent increase in wages in the sector, so we raised their wages; yeah, but we took the cafeteria, we took it away, and it turns out that overall benefits have not changed, they have not increased by anything. On one side, there is a government communication, which is an incredible prognosis on huge wage developments, and on the other hand there is real reality, namely that average incomes in Hungary are far below the average income of the countries of the region, as we know the statistics: in Hungary, since we joined the European Union, there has been a 16 percent average wage increase, whereas in neighbouring countries, when we look at the average of Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, there has been a 60 percent average wage increase. [[14.50]] So we see that in Hungary it is practically very, very minimal. If we divide these 12 years, we see that there is virtually no increase in average wage income, and unfortunately this sector feels the same way about itself. That's why they can't feel it. Here, too, if there is some income growth on one side, and by taking the cafeteria there is a loss of income, and it may be exactly equalized. So what the state gives out of one pocket, with the other hand, takes from the same pocket. So there will be no more in this way of wages. The Secretary of State also said that if these classifications are higher, they will be retroactive as of 1 January 2017. We can only welcome this in any way. This has already been discussed in December by the Legislative Committee, where the wage development of judicial staff and prosecutorial staff would have already been on the agenda, but it was then removed. President Gergely Gulyás, Chairman of the Committee and Vice-President of the Parliament have made a firm promise that the legislation will come in soon, it is true that the break is coming in December, but when Parliament reconvenes in February, we will deal with it. He also promised that this wage development would take place retroactively from 1 January. We thought that the government had forgotten this promise, and that would not happen. I'll tell you the part of the legislation that's positive, the part that's negative. In any case, it is important to point out that this is a good thing. Overall, there are also good signs in this legislation, but there are also several things that would not be eligible. I hope that this will develop a little while longer until it is accepted and then it will be eligible, but I am not sure that the Jobbik fraction will be able to support it in its current form. I don't think there's much to give, but cafeteria should in any way be a condition for the cafeteria to continue to be possible in the case of judicial staff, prosecutorial staff. But I have one more question for the Secretary of State that I have come up with. The Secretary of State said how good it is to give a minimum amount for employees with the same period of service, and there is a maximum, and it is possible to decide between the two how much it will be. What will the budget - it's a matter of principle, because you're not the owner of this - finance it? If there is always a minimum or a close-to-minimum personal benefit from the budget, then there is no such possibility. The law gives the employer the opportunity to raise the salary, but if there is no budget, there is a problem. I am asking this question in particular because today I have heard that the government has tabled an amendment to the current budget law, which has now been tabled, which is to say that it will take HUF 4.5 billion out of this amount, which has so far been there, in the case of justice, in the personal benefits of court workers, so it will reduce it. That's what I heard at the moment, $4.5 billion minus. I think, and I fear, that if you will be released to the practitioners of the employer's powers, that you need to tighten your belt, that there is no money, that we will give you the minimum, and then, in practice, the wage increase in this sector will not happen, because if minimums are issued, then we have practically not talked about raising wages, only in a very narrow layer, and there will be no general wage increase. I certainly think that this is a problem. We're talking about it now, we're talking a lot about it, the media is talking about it, pay rise, wow, but it might not happen eventually, because the government is pushing the budget down everywhere, and then it won't get to them either. By the way, I share the view of the speakers before me that, in the event that there is a minimum and a maximum, it is very much for the convenience of the employer's practitioner that one will have a raise or no raise. Indeed, this willingness to comply will be characteristic of the employer's authority practitioners, where appropriate, in these workplaces, which may not benefit quality work. That is why I think that the previous system was better when it was specific. In addition, there is still a small problem with pushing forward the period of progress. So, in the case of the law that is still in force, more often, they have advanced, stepped forward, salary increased, freedom increased, and the rest of it will now take place at a slightly slower pace, so the workers can get a little comfortable. It may not serve the same interests that you may have expressed, but it will serve the exact opposite. So we have such reservations about this legislation. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-31-92	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr for a two-minute comment.
u2017-05-31-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to confirm the thoughts that, if there are withdrawals in respect of allowances in the context of a system restructuring or in the context of a change in a salary structure, the cafetheria will be abolished, it is not certain that income positions will otherwise improve. However, if the income positions are improving, as the Secretary of State said in secondary school, I would like to emphasise once again that this should not be recorded as a result and merit. I'm telling you, don't put it on record as a result and merit, because, in line with the wage agreements concluded last year, this amount reaches the guaranteed minimum wage, and nothing more than that. In this sense, you are not doing an extra one, but only fulfilling the obligation you made in this regard last year. The other thing is, if we have already stayed at this rate of HUF 160,000, for example, I would like to suggest and recommend to the secretary of state that you look at it and see, say, seven years ago, the contribution that employers and employees together paid for a salary of this magnitude, and what this looks like in today's period. If the surplus that was levied today on a salary of this magnitude compared to what was a tax in 2010 in total, would not be distributed between the government and the pals, would be distributed among the kissers, but would also be hired, well, the situations that call for the situation that these people are moving away from the court could be eliminated. Much more attention should be paid in this direction. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-94	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Gergely Bárándy pressed a button. You have the floor.
u2017-05-31-95	Mr President, I would only speak to him because I have waited so long to see if Mrs Secretary of State will answer me. [[Dr. Mariann Water East: I was just about to answer.]] Okay, but do me a favor, not in the locker room. A debate about how we can answer each other, so I can reflect on you afterwards. There have been questions which, I think, should be in the debate. I understand that Secretary of State Völner explains the fidesz custom now that you are not doing this. You really never do it, unlike your predecessor, State Secretary Répássy, who was a fair participant in the debate, was one of the few; you are indeed not, Mr Secretary of State. Just this bad practice, if you don't mind, don't lecture anyone else, if you don't mind. I'd really like to know what the Secretary of State's position is about, for example, because she told me that we'd still be tied to the court's salary, which is fine. But since I haven't been able to look over this proposal again in so long, I assume that the possibility of remuneration and diversion, based on detailed subjective decisions, can only increase because of the wages of the staff and the boundaries from the beginning to the end, which actually detracts it from the basic salary of the judge, because otherwise it does not come out logically. Well, for example, I'd like to know how this is going. [[15.00]] I would also like to know, and I would like to ask you again whether we have reached agreement with the OBH, because the excuses that I have made, if they are real, are a problem. So they say exactly the 20-30 percent wage increase is not actually going to happen. So perhaps this is what my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, said that this is happening formally in many cases, but in practice, when finally, if you like, the envelope or the bank account, it is not 20 or 30 percent higher or more than the previous one, but because of some deductions, taxes and others, it is not as much as it originally was. The third question, in view of my fellow Member, Mesterházy's speech, is that the president of the OBH has stated that, and it is probably not unfounded that an additional 15 percent increase in the court's salary would be covered. By the way, given that the budget actually receives more than HUF 21 billion in extra funding compared to the previous year, and the total wage cost surplus is 8.5 billion, if I remember correctly, this could indeed be a reality. But one thing is certain - so if the president of the OBH says that he really has the funds for this, then why is the government so against it? So why doesn't the judicial wallet give you your blessing? Obviously, the Fidesz Members will vote for what is the order, but it is the government who decides what is going through and what is not. So I would ask: if the president of the OBH thinks that there is an opportunity, a budgetary opportunity, then why don't you support this? Once again, I would be grateful, Madam Secretary, if you would rather follow the practice of former Secretary of State Répássy, believe me, it is much more pleasant for us, that if we do not have to call out your answer, we will be able to express our opposition or perhaps to the supporter, but we can do so as we ask for a normal word. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-31-96	Thank you. I'm asking you if there's any more comments. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It didn't work!]] So I have to close the general debate. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Völner has won!]] I now give the floor to Secretary Mariann Water East.
u2017-05-31-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank all the speakers for their constructiveness, because I see that all the fellow Members agree that the salary of judicial staff and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff is a necessary, important and important thing to support. So in this, I see that in the main principle, in the main objective, we all agree on the purpose of the proposal. There have been several specific questions here and allow me, Mr President, to go through these important questions, since it has been formulated that certain things are not understood by the Members of the Council and that they ask for their reasons. Congressman Bárándy said that the President of the OBH mentioned, in her report to the Justice Committee, that there was a fact that management staff and judicial staff went to Tesco to fill up Tesco, to fill up the job, because they were paid 10-15 thousand forints more. In fact, that is the reason why we are discussing this proposal now, so that this does not happen. So the objective is to retain the judicial staff, and to settle the salary, because it is really very low. Mr Nándor Gúr is here, I see you asked the question that the increase in salaries of the order of 164 thousand forints is just a salary increase corresponding to the guaranteed minimum wage. Yeah, you're right about that. That's the size of the start-up middle-school lasz.'s salary, but the other category, how long can you increase after the service period, is 401,000 forints. So that means a major salary. Congressman Bárándy has brought out how poorly the judiciary has paid, how low their salary is. I agree. That is why the government has decided to give three times five percent salary increase. It was also a question of both Mr Barándy and Mr Gyüre, and Mr Attila Mesterházy also raised the question of why the 15 percent of the judiciary... - because the most important and urgent task here was to settle the wages of very low-waged judicial staff and prosecutorial staff. So that was the goal of trying to maintain the functioning of the court organisation system, to keep the judicial staff. So we wanted to settle the salaries of the most vulnerable and most deprived employees with this proposal. I would also like to go back to the fact that in this case we are talking about the salaries of judicial staff and non-prosecution prosecutorial staff, and not of judicial salaries and not of prosecutorial salaries, although they are linked, as the multiplying number is the combination of basic salary. So it's always, for example, now 431 thousand forints roughly the basic salary of the judge, and if I say 0.2 percent as a junior Iasz. colleague, then 0.2 percent of the 431 thousand is 164 thousand. So that's how it's connected. So we always refer to the basic salary of the judge for the salary of Lasz. colleagues and non-prosecution prosecutors. [[That math doesn't come out, Madam Secretary.]] He's not coming out? So, the fact is, it's multiplied by the basic salary. 0.2, we've already exceeded it, now it's nearly 0.4, so that's how it comes out. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: He was 30 percent below the minimum wage.]] 0.38 now, so it was 0.2 earlier, now 0.38, and it comes out for the two. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's coming out.]] Now... [[Zoltán Grimlock: That might be true.]] But I'm sure that's true. Thus, a comparison with state officials and a comparison with the salaries of state officials have also been raised as a problem in the comments of Mr Barándy. Here, too, the current law adapts the law to government civil servants' salaries from 2001, so it is an existing legal obligation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That doesn't make it good.]] That's why. So I guess I answered that we're not going to cut him off from the judge's salary. I don't know if the congressman will accept that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: El, I'd say something else, but since I don't have a chance...]] We'll make sure after that. Yeah, it's not after that. I'm sorry. Congressman Csaba Gyure said that Slovak judicial staff are on strike. The current strike law does not allow judicial staff to do so. [[Zoltán Gőgös: The Slovaks are better at this too!]] I'm guessing that's not what the congressman was trying to encourage me to do. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, but at least he can be there.]] Congressman Csaba Gyüre asked the question that Mt. the reasons for the pay, the pay, and the wage tension that this will cause within the organisation. This was specifically the request of the OBH and the Attorney General to pay a salary to IT colleagues so that they could pay their IT colleagues for quality work properly, so that they could pay them adequate wages. That's the reason, that's the reason. I also said in the expo, that it is actually more economical than having external companies perform this task, and it is safer if they carry out this task with an employee. I have the same answer to Mr Nándor Gúr, who has been pushing this question. This is the reason why the President of the OBH and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office have asked for this to be a problem in paying and keeping these professionals in the organization. I have already replied to Congressman Mesterházy as to why we are not in favour of a 15% increase in wages. [[15.10]] 'Cause I'm telling you, with this presentation, the task was to pay the lowest-waged judicial staff and prosecutorial staff. Mr Csaba Gyüre asked the question or noted that, in the case of secretaries, wage increases are minimal or very minimal. I came up with my table of secretaries: the fact that there are service-time secretaries where there will be a minimum wage increase, however, it is better for the secretaries, since until now, in the current Lasz. law, salaries have only increased up to 7 years of service, and now the salary of the secretaries has increased for 39 years in a lane. The congressman asked me about the budget. There was a pretty close consultation process with the OBH and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, I said in the exposé that this proposal was the result of more than six months of hard work, and we received background calculations from the OBH and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, which is why the two organisations receive an additional source of approximately HUF 9 billion in order for this salary increase to happen. Mr Gergely Bárándy has just added that the salaries of all judicial staff will not increase by 20-30 percent. That's right. Some people go up 10 percent, some people go up 15, some people go up 20, some people go up 30 percent, but everyone goes up. So it won't be like that, it certainly won't decrease, it will be minimal for everyone, so even those who are least likely to rise will rise minimally, and indeed not for everyone. I told the expo that the salary increase could be up to 30 percent, but of course some people will rise by 10-15-20 or 30 percent. We have endeavoured, I repeat, to increase the salary of the least qualified members of the judicial staff to the greatest extent possible. If there's anything I missed, I apologize, but I might be available later. Thank you very much. And please, since I see that you all agree that the salary arrangement should take place, this is necessary, please support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-31-98	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2016 XCI on the National Farm and Farm of Menes. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by MEPs Sándor Farkas and Béla Dankó T/15776. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Sándor Farkas, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-31-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Ménes estates of Mezőhegyes can be seen as an integral and fundamental part of the riding culture, which represents a millennia element of Hungarian self-image and identity. Over the past 230 years, Mezőhegyes' name has been connected with culture care, professional knowledge, building work that radiates throughout the country, while becoming a symbol and part of our national tradition. The 2016 XCI on National Farms and Farms of Menes. I quoted some thoughts from the preamble to law. Yet, what tasks are we facing now, and what tasks should the stud estates carry out under the law? The breeding of protected native Hungarian horses, the preservation of genetic value and the performance-based increase in the genetic value of the breeding of the Hungarian sports horse breed have been developed in Mezőhegyes. This applies to the horse sector. For other aspects of livestock production, whether for cattle, dairy farming or later for the adjustment of the traditional variety, it is necessary to produce appropriate feed and pasture management. Plant production is the one that determines the centre of gravity and potential of the whole economy, which refers specifically to seed production, agricultural and forestry, wildlife management, gardening and related educational, tourism and horse sport activities. The theoretical and practical agricultural training, education, training and adult training, especially in relation to animal and horse farming, as well as in line with modern needs, is a traditional field. What are the circumstances, what were the ones that made it necessary to amend this law? I'd like to say a few things so that everyone in this room can understand and monitor the presentation. From 1 January 2016 until 31 December 2016, Mezőhegyesi State Ménes budgetary institution took over Mezőhegyesi State Ménes Lófarmer and Sales Ltd. as central budgetary body from 31 December 2015. its activities, assets, liabilities and claims, without successor, by law, from a company which ceases to exist. Mezőhegyesi State Ménes has been the former Kft since 1 January 2016. It has managed its assets, which, by virtue of the legislation, has become public property from company property and, as such, should have been the subject of a trust agreement which, although attempted, has not been established. The 2016 XCI on national stud estates. According to the provisions of Law Mezőhegyesi State Ménes's tasks will be transferred from 1 January 2017, i.e. from 1 January of this year by succession to National Ménesbirtek és Tangazdaság Zrt. Problems to be solved with the bill. Mezőhegyesi Állami Ménes és Lóvérő és Értésítő Kft. Mezőhegyesi Állami Ménes took over its activities and assets, liabilities and claims from 31 December 2015 and operated as a central budgetary institution from 1 January 2016 until 31 December 2016 under the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture, so that the former Mezőhegyesi Állami Ménes Lóvérő és Értésítő Kft. has managed its assets. As this stock of assets became public property by virtue of the legislation, it would have been necessary to conclude a trust contract, but it did not. Nemzeti Méneskörtények és Tanazdaság Zrt. as a 100% state-owned company, the ownership of movable property, horses, other animals and crops managed by Mezőhegyes State Ménes could not be acquired as they are owned by the State. The same is true of land products, crops and reproductions which are the subject of land-use contracts concluded with the National Land Fund Management Organisation, as they are also owned by the State by separation. Due to the nature of the compulsory duties of the stud estates, the sale of movable property often becomes necessary, I think, from the practice life we know what that means. As regards the breeding of horse flocks, the production of productions and products, as the movable property is not the property of the herd, the company cannot therefore conclude any sale of the movable property, but thus the task of the stud property may be impossible. [[15.20]] 254/2007 on the management of public assets. Government decree 26. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, with the exception of paragraph 2 of the Act, the public property may be sold by the shareholder or by a person entrusted by him who receives the tender for the purpose of carrying out the sale. Paragraph 2 of the cited legal instrument allows the owner to commission the sale with a specific set of persons and specific types of assets, but in this taxing list the National Ménesbirtek és Tangazdaság Zrt. other so-called trustees and assets managed as non-budgetary bodies are not eligible. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, the question arises as to how to assign movable property to the holding in order to enable the company to fulfil its statutory obligations. The 2016 XCI on National Farms and Farms of Menes was presented to address this problem. a bill amending the law, which has two important ideas. The first is the National Farms of Menes and Farmhouses Zrt. products, crops and reproductions generated on property owned by the company shall be owned by separation. The second is that movable property belonging to the management of the assets of the stud estates is owned free of charge by the stud property by virtue of the law by a contract for the transfer of ownership. I would ask my fellow Members to support this bill for its operation, so that the Mezőhegyi Ménes estates and the Economy can continue to fulfil its commitment and the statutory tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-100	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond. [[Nándor Csepreghy: Yes.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-31-101	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Since it is a basically technical amendment and we are talking about the transfer of these assets from public direct ownership to another publicly owned company, not as a trust, but as a property right, which is essential for the operation of the company, the Government therefore supports the proposal and asks for the majority of Parliament to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-102	Thank you. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I will ask if he is a speaker from the Fidesz Group. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Then I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-31-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Not many people understand this story, I'm sure, because it's about state horse and state hay, which remains a state horse and becomes a state hay. Between the two - if we look very deeply into it - there are so many differences between wealth management and property that if at some point the government does change its mind, which, I suppose, will not happen so quickly that it will sell the company to which it will be transferred, then from now on those protected state horses will be sold, which will no longer be in asset management, but in ownership. That's all there is to the story. So it's not exactly the same two assets, because the foal is also movable, it can also be transferred. But I don't think there's any danger like that right now. But let me just say, since we already have this law before us, I don't think we should have had to make such a complicated amendment to the law - we're going to abstain, by the way - but if we had to, we had to, but I guess everyone had to look at it carefully. The trust contract would have solved it, but it means the government doesn't want asset management, it wants a transfer of ownership because it could have concluded a trust agreement on the assets with the new state company. This was said, but for some reason it didn't happen; at that time the first legislation might have simply missed it. I would draw attention to the dilemmas surrounding the formation of the new company. When you think about the big sayings about how the government wants a different type of agriculture, it turns out that this 200-year-old estate was dismembered first and then re-assembled again, which is very right, because we never agreed that such functioning units would fall apart, but I would like to say that the government pulled the production funds out of very, very, very well-functioning private companies at the time of the lease, which, moreover, ended up being private property in most places, not entirely, but in many places. And now there will be an interesting exception, compared to the property maxim regulated by the current cardinal law - which is 1200 hectares - the state has founded a 9 000-acre property with a half-life law, now with these areas, which immediately exceeded its own limits, and then an ex-private company that had been operating in the same way and profitably in the market, recapitalisations about 9 billion, which is obviously available to that company, I do not dispute, however, excluding a lot of other businesses operating in the same way from development opportunities. Because if you look at the tender notice, it says that companies with this kind of capacity, which are still this big, but in five years' time, who knows how big they will be when the contracts, the leases, and in some way they lose part of their territory, cannot develop because of two things, on the one hand, because there is no bank that would talk to a company that loses their land in five years' time, and on the other hand, because they cannot fit into the tender system. The tender scheme is set out in such a way that undertakings of this type, including livestock production and development, can benefit from the aid up to a maximum of 20 per cent. There may be logic in this, but the only reason we don't see it is because, for example, in cattle farming, such capacities hold 70-80 percent of the stock. By the way, in connection with the application treatment, I asked a lot of businesses where there is substantial livestock farming, and interestingly, no one won a tender. I just don't know who won then. Obviously, those who now operate grazing livestock on Hortobágy - where I will go again tomorrow - but without an animal. It's a Hungarian curiosity that we graze without animals. That's an interesting thing. Unfortunately, the Ministry's reply did not come to this, and I asked Minister Fazekas in writing what kind of control was carried out by the NFA and national parks over the last three years in connection with land leases and what the consequences had been. Well, I'm waiting for an answer. Maybe he'll be back tomorrow. I'm very curious to know if it matches my experience, because what I see is that the winners of that time who were brought out to face never follow anything. In English, if they had been checked, they would have had to take the areas away from everyone and re-submitted, of course, only the lands that did not become private property, because part of it was settled. I am only drawing attention to these because the sector can face a very serious problem. I would also like to say to Mr S, Minister of State, who ultimately oversees the applications, that it could be a huge problem to yank the land out of a large part of the current high-tech agriculture in five years' time. Obviously, after a government change is likely to take place next year, it is still possible to intervene, because everything is not lost yet, but there are already problems in many places. When we look around at how many places the low milk prices have stopped - and the other circumstances have obviously been involved - animal farming, especially in Transdanubia, where there were serious livestock businesses, is a very warning sign. It would not be good for this trend to continue. I only told you this because if the state makes a pattern like this, which obviously won't be the family farm on 9 000 hectares, to be more precise, we already know about a family that collects almost this much under different names, a very successful gas mechanic, although there are 9 thousand, but it does form a very serious agricultural portfolio, well, this is going to end very badly. I'm just saying, as an example, it was an excellent idea to do this, but it shouldn't have been torn apart, but it should have been said that they would buy the company if they were going to nationalise, and then there should be a big state business here, which, by the way, was built 200 years ago, sometime before II. Joseph's time. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] And that's the law, if it's really the only way to sell the foal, and if that's the only way to feed the hay, then I'm sure it's okay. I think it could have been simpler, but at least they gave you an opportunity to express your concerns of this type. I also said in the rural development debate that we should consider this whole concept. Restricting activity by not taking into account land quality or activity, but drawing a mechanical limit is certainly not an end to it, because it has nothing to do with life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[15.30]]
u2017-05-31-104	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-31-105	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 January 2017, the National Ménes estates and Farmhouses started operating in Mezőhegyes on Mezőhegyes. The purpose of this bill is to ensure that the property belonging to the company, which is the predecessor of the law, Mezőhegyesi Állami Ménes Lómezőtő és Értésítő Kft., is transferred to the company in order to perform more effectively the public tasks of the studs. they were owned by him. The bill clarifies that the property managed by the stud estates, the products, crops and reproductions generated on state-owned real estate, will be owned by the stud estates. Ladies and Gentlemen, My fellow Member and the Prime Minister's Office have expressed their support for this, and I do not wish to repeat it. However, the Christian Democratic People's Party also supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-31-106	Thank you. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-31-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary wanted to support the original law, as Jobbik's long-standing demand that the state should play its part in preserving our agricultural values; especially if it serves as a demonstration centre to make the necessary knowledge to stay in the countryside understandable for young generations. Two years ago, however, on the trail of SZDSZ, Fidesz also decided to privatise state land, although even the SZDSZ did not dare to touch it, but you dared; because they thought that privatisation was better than state property, acting in a completely different way than what they had said before. But anyway, given that certain interest groups had an interest in acquiring state land, you obviously decided to privatise, going beyond SZDSZ's policy. So, after privatization of these state lands two years ago, which we protested in every possible way, especially when it turned out that ancient knowledge and many jobs, genetic value, were taken out of the soil, such as the farmhouses of Müpa Budapest. After all, at the last minute, they realized that everything should not always be privatized to the extremes, so they changed their minds at the last minute, and turned back from it in some incredibly circumstantial way. But this reorganization, i.e. the reversal of privatisation, was, unfortunately, surrounded by compensation, which we believe to be inconvenient for everyone. The new owners, owners of the taxpayer's money, our money, all our money, public money, have received brutal compensations for the cost of pain, which is not justified at all. We could support this amendment even after these circumstances, but only if certain conditions are met. On the one hand, if the names of the owners who have not suffered a real disadvantage but who have been compensated for alleged damages due to the annulled privatisation are disclosed, the size of the area they have fallen, the exact amount of compensation, and these are stated in the minutes; this is one of our conditions. The second is that the law on national assets should be amended in such a way that, according to the proposal previously and now under discussion, movable property and immovable property acquired by the company is protected from future privatisation. No offense, but we no longer believe in the promise of the Parliamentary Secretary of State. We want to avoid these properties ending up at Lőrinc Mészáros, Lőrinc Mészáros's kinship or any other landlord, with a new fidesz landlord, rather than with the national-owned Zrt. The only problem is that since Fidesz has been on the government in Hungary, this experience, concentration of estates, the creation of a new layer of landlords in Hungary, the re-enactment of state-owned properties for them and the like. If we are guaranteed to do so, then we can accept this legislation and agree with it; if not, we will not. Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2017-05-31-108	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Haughty.
u2017-05-31-109	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. He was left out of the former keynote speech, as my colleague Csaba Gyüre indicated, and I think it is very important that the biggest problem of the original law was that not only did he give compensation to the losers of privatisation, it can be understood somewhere that he will receive the paid-up money, but that they immediately acquired the right to rent. And to be clear, who these are, are the cousins of György Simonka, who were registered at the church in Battony, one of his co-workers, who lives in a house I've already posted pictures of, because I don't think people can live there, and, just to say four, one of the prime minister's employees, lawyer, who comes from Nagykovácsi to milk on Mezőhegyes, from 260 kilometers away. They received 150,000 forints/hectare compensation for the non-existent damage. This is two years of EU support, I would like to say. This will obviously raise a lot of things, cheating treatment, something else, because throwing away the state's money, one and a half billion, that's why... obviously that's what it took for the political deal, I don't dispute how they're gonna undo what they promised someone else. But I think it's gonna blow the fuse, too. This may have been the most disgusting thing in all of this. This is why, among other things, we did not vote in favour of the original law, because we said that under such conditions it could not be accepted, despite the fact that we protested together, the opposition for the livestock estate in Mezőhegyes. So there is no problem with the outcome, except that on this branch it was again worth HUF 1.5 billion to those who otherwise had absolutely nothing to do with all of this, but had reached 100-150-200-250 hectares through a completely false leasing system at the time. That's what I wanted to add. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-31-110	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Farkas in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-31-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. So, basically, we're gonna do the closing? [[For signal:]] Then I'll wait for the end. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-31-112	Since there's an application now, but there was no application just now, but György Szilágyi applied for two minutes, I'll give him the floor first.
u2017-05-31-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would really just like to say this in ten seconds because of the record. This is typical, by the way, this case was now very typical of Fidesz's resolve to debate. My fellow Member would have something to say, but he would rather say it in the closet when the people who are sitting here can no longer answer it. The debate would be about being able to answer certain questions to each other. There were serious allegations made here by the opposition, and I was really glad that a pro-government representative would stand up and try to disprove it. But no! When the debate is over, he'll stand up and tell us why we don't think well, which we won't be able to answer. I think that this debate culture, which has been going on here in Parliament for seven years, is not appropriate. This is a mockery of parliamentarism. From 2018, this will change, and believe me that when we are on the government, we will not run away from the debates. Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2017-05-31-114	Thank you. Now, after I do not see another candidate, I will close the debate and give the floor to Congressman Sándor Farkas.
u2017-05-31-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would just like to say to Mr Szilágyi that at any time in any debate concerning agriculture, agriculture, I am ready to debate anywhere or publicly with you. [[György Sziâlágyi: Only in Parliament.]] So this is a misunderstanding on your part, I think. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is a pass to the Field Point Act, which I know you like to annihilate. I'd like to read this. That's number one. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Ménes estates: 100% of the shares in Ménes estates are owned by the State. The sale, burden, and collateralisation of the shares is null and void. This is a guarantee; it is true that it is not two-thirds, but when this law was made, honourable Members, I think that in itself it was a big and acceptable decision in the political mood at that time that this situation had been resolved in Mezőhegyesen. I would like this thought to be appreciated, and not always the knot-searching of the knot would happen, what if it would be privatized; on this basis it would be possible to put anything into question, even the two-thirds law, because then it would become a four-fifth. I think, in this case, in this amendment of the law, this is not the place for this. [[15.40]] Paragraph 1:.100 percent of the shares in Ménes estates are owned by the State. The sale, burden, and collateralisation of the shares is null and void. This is a guarantee; it is true that it is not two-thirds, but when this law was made, honourable Members, I think that in itself it was a big and acceptable decision in the political mood at that time that this situation had been resolved in Mezőhegyesen. I would like this thought to be appreciated, and not always the knot-searching of the knot would happen, what if it would be privatized; on this basis it would be possible to put anything into question, even the two-thirds law, because then it would become a four-fifth. I think, in this case, in this amendment of the law, this is not the place for this.(15.40) How the stud property got there, how it was able to save it, so to say - it may not be a good term - to keep it together - perhaps that is the correct term - a company that has been operating for 230 years, it was not a small story, I admit. But I think it's also unprecedented - I'm just commenting on this - that the state came out of the buy-back and the withdrawal from the buy-in and all other stories without practically one case. I think it's important because... [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Okay, I know you can spread your arms, but if you had lawsuits, you'd be mad here - sorry for the expression, Congressman - about why this happened. I think that this is an important thing, that in a perfectly normal way, to everyone's satisfaction, this law has been implemented and the company operates properly. I would like to make one more comment. The so-called capitalization of stud estates is done not by our goodwill, not by our own ideas, but by coercion. Mr. Haughty referred to the former owners. The former owners sold the most valuable parts of the plant, but I'll keep that in mind. At the moment, the reality content includes: In the summer of 2017, harvest, harvest, drying, seed treatment can only be carried out in a payroll plant, as this is not available to Mezőhegyes. I just wanted to say that for the sake of reason. Therefore, this capitalisation will happen for a reason, logically; unfortunately, it has not yet started. However, I would also like to say in response to the tendering system that virtually only one source of tender is not being cut off, that the development in the field is not taking away from anyone. Neither the possible expansion, development of the cattle farm nor the development of the industrial park is capitalised on the tendering system for other sectors of agriculture. I would ask my fellow Members to support this law. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-116	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until its closure. The government referral is T/15555. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-31-117	Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is to publish a Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. In view of Croatia's accession, the Protocol was signed in Brussels on 25 June 2014 and approved by the European Union and, on behalf of the Member States, by the Council of the European Union, and therefore the internal legal procedure is only necessary for publication. Serbia confirmed on 10 November 2015 and the Council notified Serbia of its approval on 31 January 2017. The Protocol therefore entered into force in international law on 1 February 2017. The purpose of the Association Agreement with Serbia is to promote the European integration of the country. In this context, the European Union supports Serbia's efforts to consolidate the rule of law and democracy, contributing to the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of the Balkan region. It is important for Serbia to develop its infrastructure and economic relations with Central Europe and its integration with the European Union in principle through Hungary, so, Honourable Parliament, we ask you to support this proposal. Serbia is at the forefront of the Hungarian neighbourhood, national and security policy and foreign economic aspirations. Thanks to the support of the Hungarian government and the openness of the Serbian party, Hungarian personal autonomy in the Carpathian Basin could develop and function in Vojvodina. Its operating institution is the Hungarian National Council, which, through its numerous programmes, such as education, culture, official language use or information, ensures that the Hungarian national community remains in the homeland and its preconditions. The Serbian law on national councils provides the opportunity to set up national councils directly elected by members of the minority, which have powers in the cultural, educational, informational and language matters of the minority community. Since 2011, Hungary's Government has continuously supported the Hungarian National Council's priority programmes in order to help the Hungarian community thrive in Hungary's homeland in the amount of HUF 600 million per year, and the meetings of the Hungarian-Serbian Intergovernmental Minority Committee have become important forums for relations between Hungary and the Republic of Serbia in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Official EU accession negotiations with Serbia started on 21 January 2014. Eight chapters have now been discussed, and two could have been temporarily closed. Hungary actively supports Serbia's accession negotiations in the EU. In line with Hungarian organisations in Vojvodina, the government welcomes Serbia's satisfactory fulfilment of the conditions for opening the justice and fundamental rights chapters, including the development of a national minority action plan. The final version of the national minority action plan was adopted by the Serbian Government on 3 March 2016. The document sets out the tasks of national minority legal certainty for the following years. The document includes a number of extremely important issues such as the amendment of the National Council Act, the pro rata employment of national minorities in the public sector, the use of official minority languages, the promotion of the Vojvodina budget and the creation of a law of competence, as well as the involvement of national minority organisations in the preparatory work itself. As a concrete form of Hungarian-Serbian bilateral support, we will also assist Serbia's accession negotiations with a national expert from 2015 onwards. The key judicial reform also supports Hungarian-Serbian cooperation within the framework of the agreement signed in 2015 between the two countries' justice ministries. Within the framework of the action plan adopted for the Hungarian proposal on legal certainty for national minorities, the amendment of the law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of national minorities is under way and a working group has been set up to amend the law on national councils. The publication of primary school national minority textbooks is also progressing. On the Hungarian side, we monitor the fulfilment of the tasks of the action plan in a time-related manner, and we continue to coordinate with the local Hungarian and Serbian government partners. The Hungarian-Serbian historical reconciliation process is of particular importance and is exemplary in the region, as part of which the Hungarian-Serbian Joint Academy Committee was established. Dear House, In view of what has been said, we ask for support from the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2017-05-31-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-31-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Balkans were not spared by the storms of history, and we can even see and observe processes that destabilize the region today. At the same time, several major powers are present and active in the Balkans. There's a lot of tension in everyday life. At the same time, stability in the Balkans is one of the key keys to Europe's security. Meanwhile, Hungary has established the best relationship so far with Serbia in favour of the southern Hungarians living there. Serbia occupies a special place in our relations system, as the Hungarian neighbourhood is at the forefront of national and security policy and external economic efforts. High-level meetings are common at both political and governmental levels, in line with the established good bilateral cooperation. I don't start to enlist many collaborations because a few months ago I had the opportunity to talk about the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, so I was able to do some short and really sketchy looks. If we look at the situation and geopolitical importance of the Balkans and the complexity of its relations with Hungary together, it is understandable why Hungary supports Serbia's accession to the European Union: it is in our and Europe's fundamental interest that the EU enlargement continues in the Balkans. If we look at the harshness of the storms of history, the EU is an unprecedented success in that there has been no war between its Member States during its existence. Of course, it is also in our interest that the minorities who live in Serbia fight out as much power as possible in the EU accession negotiations. As Minister of State said, accession negotiations between Serbia and the European Union began on 21 January 2014. CHAPTER XXVI However, the Education and Culture Chapter could not be put on the agenda at the December 2016 round of negotiations because Croatia and Bulgaria had reservations. On 23 December 2016, a turn of events took place, as Belgrade signed an agreement governing the translation of individual textbooks into Croatian. According to a Croatian evaluation, Serbia has created the conditions for negotiating the accession chapter. Thus, 6 out of 35 chapters are currently open and 2 are temporarily closed. We too, Hungary, have followed these results with great interest, because it is very important for Hungary that Serbia has properly completed XXIII. The conditions for opening a chapter on justice and fundamental rights, including the development of a national minority action plan. After both Hungarian and Croatian expectations have been met in relation to our communities, I consider it justified and particularly in our interest that Hungary sign the agreement that has just been tabled. I call for the support of my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2017-05-31-120	Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue with the speeches. Mr István Józsa is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is important, very important. On the soft bottom of Europe, in the Balkans, Serbia is one of the most important countries. The accession negotiations between the European Union and Serbia started on 21 January 2014 and, unfortunately, the XXVI was not on the agenda at the December 2016 round of negotiations due to the reservations of Croatia and Bulgaria. Education and culture chapter. However, on 23 December 2016, the Agreement governing the translation of certain textbooks into Croatian was signed in Belgrade. This may be particularly sensitive, because they had practiced Serbian Croatian for 50 years before, and now it is very important to have it separated, to the Serbian Croatian and to the Croatian. So I can understand this sensitivity. Thus, according to a Croatian assessment, Serbia has created the conditions for the negotiation of the accession chapter. Thus, 6 out of 35 chapters are currently opened and 2 are provisionally closed. I would like to mention in the background that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, was signed in Luxembourg on 29 April 2008, or, as they say, in Láxembörg, and that this entered into force on 1 September 2013 in a completely fortunate manner, nothing came up. The aim of the agreement was to promote Serbia's European integration and its approach, in which the European Union supports Serbia's efforts to consolidate the rule of law and democracy, thereby contributing to the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of the Balkan region, as I said, the soft sub-body of Europe. That Agreement is hereby concluded on behalf of the European Union. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. So if we feel it, that's why this has a history going backwards, quite properly. In addition, the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Republic of Serbia was drawn up to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. This was also signed in Brussels on 25 June 2014 due to Croatia's accession to the European Union. The Protocol entered into force on 1 February 2017, i.e. not so long ago. This Protocol shall consist of five sections and 16 articles. The first section states that Croatia will become a Party to the Agreement in view of its accession to the European Union and, like other Member States of the European Union, will adopt and take note of the text of the Agreement and the declarations attached thereto. This is a very nice act from an EU Member State, otherwise it is appropriate. The second stage includes an amendment to the Agreement in relation to customs duties and quantitative restrictions on certain agricultural products with a view to Croatia's accession. The third and fourth sections contain rules on the admissibility of proofs of origin, while Chapter Five contains general and final provisions. The Protocol shall be approved by the European Union and, on behalf of the Member States, by the Council of the European Union, so that the internal legal procedure is only necessary for publication. The Protocol was provisionally applicable from 1 January 2007. So these are the precedents of the present proposal. And I would like to add that Hungary has already actively supported Serbia's accession negotiations to the European Union, and it is of particular importance for our country that Serbia properly completes XXIII. The conditions for opening a chapter on justice and fundamental rights, including the development of a national minority action plan. The MSZP parliamentary group therefore supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[16.00]]
u2017-05-31-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is coming, Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2017-05-31-123	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Christian Democrats consider it important to promote Serbia's European integration. Consolidating the rule of law and democracy contributes to the political, economic and institutional stabilisation of the Balkan region. The Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and Serbia on the publication of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement 2010 signed in Luxembourg on 29 April 2008 is hereby concluded. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The Croatian Additional Protocol was signed in Brussels on 25 June 2014 with a view to Croatia's accession to the European Union and entered into force on 1 January 2017. Ladies and Gentlemen, Our country actively supports the accession negotiations in Serbia, and we consider it particularly important that Serbia has properly completed the XXIII. The conditions for opening a chapter on justice and fundamental rights, including the development of a national minority action plan. On this basis, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T/15555. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-31-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports the publication of the Protocol, as Croatia is entitled to all the rights as a full member of the Union as well as the former Member States. It is important that Croatia is fully involved in the EU's blood circulation without any restrictions. We can support the bill with a special heart because of part of the explanatory statement, which reads as follows: "Hungary actively supports Serbia's accession negotiations, and it is of particular importance for our country that Serbia has properly completed XXIII. The conditions for opening a chapter on justice and fundamental rights, including the development of a national minority action plan. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We hope that this wording suggests that the government is beginning to see what Jobbik has been stressing for years that Serbia's accession to the EU is of paramount importance to our country, but it is a strict prerequisite for the country to ensure the widest possible rights of national communities living in its territory, including, of course, the southern Hungarians, and, if these are guaranteed, of course, we support Serbia's accession. That is why we welcome and welcome this part of the explanatory statement. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-31-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, such a statement should not take place. Two-minute speeches are possible. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if there's anyone else from the factions who'd like to speak. (No indication. ) I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Nándor Csepreghy: No.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the proposal for a Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, is now under way. The government referral is T/155556. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Time frame's 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary, please.
u2017-05-31-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is to strengthen and publish the Partnership Agreement on Relations and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and New Zealand, of the other part, by Parliament. The history of diplomatic relations between the European Union and New Zealand began in 1984 when the EU delegation to Canberra was accredited to Wellington. Since September 2016, there has been an ambassadorial representation in New Zealand; the European Union regards New Zealand as a natural, reliable partner due to the identity of values and interests. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and New Zealand, signed in Brussels on 5 October 2016, contributes significantly to strengthening cooperation, building on common values and principles such as democratic principles, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and international peace and security. The Agreement establishes a coherent, legally binding general framework for European Union relations with New Zealand. This is a so-called joint agreement affecting both EU and Member State competences and it is therefore necessary to ratify both the European Union and the Member States in order to bring it into force. The agreement has been ratified so far by Estonia and Austria. Dear House, One of the most important areas of cooperation is foreign and security policy. New Zealand has already contributed to military missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Afghanistan, but cooperation has been brought to a new level by the participation agreement signed in April 2012, which has enabled New Zealand to be fully involved in the crisis management missions of the European Union. In addition to missions, there is considerable cooperation at political level, including on key global issues such as the fight against terrorism, the European Union and New Zealand share the same position. Trade and economic cooperation plays a key role in the relations between the European Union and New Zealand. The European Union was the third largest trading partner in New Zealand in 2016 after China and Australia, with an increasing trend in external trade of more than EUR 8 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congressman Lords! Hungary and New Zealand established diplomatic relations in 1974. Our sporadic bilateral cooperation over previous decades has expanded spectacularly over the past few decades. The opening-up of the South by the Hungarian Government in 2015 gives much greater and more focused attention to areas outside Europe, such as the Asian region, including the Pacific region, including New Zealand. On 17 February 2017, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade confirmed Hungary's full support for the rapid ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, thus expressing a high level of political commitment to the ratification of the agreement from the Hungarian part as soon as possible. During the visit, the official inauguration of the Hungarian Embassy in Wellington took place, which is a key feature of the southern opening policy and an important step in the history of our bilateral relations. With the opening of the embassy, in addition to the foreign policy and external economic arguments of the development of relations with the Pacific region, we also followed important international, national policy aspects of the New Zealand Hungarians, given the fact that the country has more than 3,000 Hungarian diasporas. Dear House, Our contractual relations offer serious prospects for further strengthening human relations. In 2012, the agreement entered into force on the temporary work programme of tourists, with a total of 100 to 100 Hungarian and New Zealand young people being able to spend a maximum of 12 months in each other's countries with the aim of learning, gaining experience and working at a reduced rate. Despite the fact that Central Europe has traditionally not been a significant factor for foreign policy in New Zealand, our relationship with New Zealand is constructive and expanding thanks to our country's membership in the EU, our previous joint engagement in Afghanistan and our cooperation in international organisations. In this spirit, I would also ask the Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[16.10]]
u2017-05-31-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Bartos. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-31-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! When Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: We are talking about distance in a globalised world of the century, and we are trying to approach a very relative fact. Because even though the kilometers didn't fall between distant worlds, the distance is all the more. One of the very good examples is Hungary and New Zealand, as well as the developing relationship between New Zealand and the EU. Our diplomatic relations have been going back decades. In 2016, the Hungarian Embassy of Wellington started its operation. This is also joyful because, as Mr. State Secretary said, in New Zealand, there are some 3,000 Hungarian diasporas. The Hungarians of New Zealand are integrated into the local society and are actively involved in political and economic life. Between 1998 and 2008 there were representatives of Hungarian origin in the New Zealand Parliament, and even in economic and financial life. The decline in distance can also be seen in the fact that there have been a series of high-level visits to the region, including New Zealand. The visit of Speaker László Kövér in November 2014 confirmed the relationship between our parliaments. Parliamentary diplomacy has a special place in the dialogue between countries and nations, which Hungary, as a founding member of the Interparlamental Union, has always treated as a priority. President János Áder visited New Zealand in November 2016 to salute the Hungarians living there before the 60th anniversary of the 1956 heroes and the revolution and freedom struggle. Unfortunately, a natural disaster, an earthquake of 7.8, interrupted the series of programs. The following year was also outstanding, since after 27 years Minister Péter Szijjártó visited New Zealand as the first foreign minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including on the occasion of the celebration of the inauguration of the Hungarian Embassy in Wellington and the 60th anniversary of the reception of Hungarian refugees to New Zealand after the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. Several agreements exist between our countries, such as in the case of a visit to the visa requirement, not exceeding 90 days, or in the case of a temporary work programme for tourists. There are some areas in which we do not share a common position, one of which is the GMO exemption, but this does not preclude us from finding a common voice in other areas of agriculture. The Association of Hungarian Farmers considers it useful to organize study trips for domestic professionals mainly in the field of dairy cattle, meat, sheep, deer and horse farming. In the field of fisheries and fisheries, it would be worth strengthening the exchange of information, vocational training and joint research between research institutions. The agreement before us is a new step in the development of relations, contributing to the improvement of the partnership between Hungary and the EU and New Zealand. Binding political clauses express commitments in the areas of human rights, non-proliferation and the fight against terrorism. In addition, cooperation in the trade and economic field is included in the agreement, but the policy issue is also a priority. It regulates, inter alia, health, environmental protection, climate change, energy, education, culture, labour, disaster management, maritime and fisheries, transport, legal cooperation, money laundering and terrorist financing cooperation on organised crime and corruption. It is clear from the diversity of the topics listed that the agreement on our table supports cooperation in a wide range of ways, and I therefore recommend the adoption of the proposal to my fellow Members with good heart. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-31-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I said it was important to Serbia, it is very important, then I say to New Zealand that it is distant, very distant, but it is very important. [[Defiance.]] Because its climate is very similar to the climate of our homeland, and its mood is quite different. So when I read here in the presentation about what the agreement covers, that cooperation is based on respect for human rights and democratic principles, international law and the principles laid down in the UN Statute, then as far as I know about New Zealand experiences, because I talked to some people who have turned around there, lived there for years, or perhaps consider it their second country and visited home, I have not been there myself, so there are these things that are natural. This is a fortunate country from the point of view that it is not characterised by such waves, political waves, social disasters, which means poverty in Hungary. It is a rich country, an established democratic country, and it is very important that we have an orderly, legally proclaimed relationship. Therefore, the purpose of this bill is to recognise the binding scope of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, i.e. Hungary, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, and to publish it. This has a serious history of years. On 25 June 2012, the Council of the Union authorised the Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to enter into negotiations on the establishment of the Agreement, which should hold on to the joint political declaration on relations and cooperation between the European Union and New Zealand, nearly ten years, on 21 September 2007. The negotiations also started on 30 July 2014 and were successfully concluded and the agreement was signed on 25 October 2016 in Brussels. This agreement consists of 10 titles and 60 articles, the structure of which I would not describe in detail, but let us say that I would highlight these points, such as political dialogue and cooperation on foreign policy and security policy issues, as set out in Annex II. In Chapter I, Chapter I is replaced by the following: CHAPTER III Chapter 2: Cooperation on global development and humanitarian aid. Annex IV is amended as follows: In Chapter V, cooperation on economic and commercial matters is included in Chapter V in the area of freedom, security and justice. CHAPTER VI Chapter 1: Cooperation in research, innovation and the information society. In this regard, as regards the information society, democracy is ahead of us, so it is worth building on relations with them. Annex VII is amended as follows: In Chapter I, it regulates the field of education, culture and people-to-people relations. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. Chapter III: Sustainable development, energy and transport. Annex IX is amended as follows: Chapter X is the institutional framework and the final provisions. This Agreement establishes a Joint Committee of representatives of the Contracting Parties to monitor and promote the implementation of the Agreement and the development of bilateral relations between the Parties. [[16.20]] Pending the entry into force of the Agreement, certain provisions of the Agreement shall be applied provisionally between the Union and New Zealand on matters falling within Union competence. The Agreement provides a comprehensive legal basis for relations between the European Union and New Zealand and contributes significantly to the improvement of the partnership based on common values and principles. The agreement also includes a binding political clause in which the European Union and New Zealand declare their commitments in areas such as the fight against human rights and terrorism. According to this agreement, the foundations of cooperation, as I have already mentioned, are human rights and democratic principles... - this would be worth interpreting with regard to Hungary, in particular with regard to the manifestation of yesterday's political terror, where lawyers who had otherwise learned about the pressure of the Speaker of the House imposed fines on certain opposition representatives in violation of human rights, in this case I, too, by deduction from the payment that is not granted to us by the Speaker or by the House, but by the Hungarian people, thus violating fundamental principles. Such an international treaty would also provide a basis for looking into the world, how democracy works, and what is the difference between democracy and terror, between fascistoid manifestations. Because raising my hand like this and calling it fascistoid the method that is sometimes used is not yet punished, but that I have raised an A4 sign that says veto, so someone is vitiating the right for you and you voted for it - shame on you! - to deduct 50,000 forints from the fee that I receive not from you, but from the Hungarian people, from the voters. So that's why it's important to have a...
u2017-05-31-132	Congressman, I'm guessing this wasn't born in New Zealand, but was born in this House. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's it!]] so in this sense it does not belong to this... [[Dr. István Józsa: That's it! That's exactly the comparison I want as a mirror...]] Congressman, allow me to tell you. Mr President, this is not on the subject, so I would ask you very nicely, it is not during this debate that we have the opportunity to talk about it. [[Dr. István Józsa: Dear President! I was exactly quoting...]] Congressman, if you want me to take the floor, go ahead. [[Dr. István Józsa: Well, that would be nice.]] And why shouldn't it be? Well, it doesn't belong to that. [[Dr. István Józsa: Because I am talking about the agenda, the presentation.]] But you're not talking about the proposal. [[Dr. István Józsa: I am talking about what is the subject of the proposal: democratic principles!]] That is not what we are talking about at this moment, the democratic principles for the European Union and New Zealand. [[Dr. István Józsa: But there are two sides to it!]] There are three for that coin, so go ahead, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-133	So, after a small detour, in which I have made clear that the interpretation of democratic principles is worth a little consultation on the basis of a definition, as well as respect for international law and the principles laid down in the UN Statute, on the basis of which the Court of Strasbourg will give us justice against you, because it was the terror that happened here yesterday. In accordance with the EU approach on the application of political clauses, the Agreement may be suspended or terminated in the event of a particularly serious and significant breach of the essential elements of the Agreement. Fortunately, yesterday's atrocity, which I believe has occurred in a category of political terror, not in relations with the two countries, does not jeopardise the publication of the treaty. I would like to add that the essence of the agreement is supported by our faction. This Agreement also covers meaningful cooperation on economic and commercial matters, as well as a wide range of policy areas such as health, environmental protection, climate change, energy, education, culture, work, disaster management. Well, we are so not interested in maritime affairs, but, for example, in fisheries, fish breeding, transport, legal cooperation and the fight against money laundering, the prevention of terrorist financing and the regulation of cooperation in the field of organised crime and the fight against corruption, these are all specific practical areas that give weight to this Treaty, and I support its adoption, in addition to the said democratic principles which are very important to me. Thank you so much for the opportunity to tell you.
u2017-05-31-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-135	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I come to my principal speaker's thoughts, which I wanted to say in the first place, I am obliged to respond to the keynote speech I have just given...
u2017-05-31-136	If possible, don't do it, Congressman.
u2017-05-31-137	...to reject these voices. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hungary and New Zealand established diplomatic relations in 1974. Our sporadic bilateral cooperation over previous decades has expanded spectacularly over the past few decades. The foreign policy strategy launched by the Hungarian government in 2015 gives much greater and more focused attention to areas outside Europe, such as the Asian region, the Pacific region, including New Zealand. Our growing economic and foreign policy activity has also brought clear results in this relationship for 2016-17. Ladies and Gentlemen, Although Central Europe is traditionally not a major factor for foreign policy in New Zealand, we have managed to establish a constructive and expanding dialogue with Wellington thanks to its relations with the EU, our previous joint engagement in Afghanistan and our cooperation in international organisations. On 25 June 2012, the Council adopted a decision authorising the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to negotiate a Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and New Zealand, a so-called PARC agreement, with a view to transforming the 2007 declaration and bringing relations to the contractual level. The Agreement was signed in Brussels on 5 October 2016. The PARC agreement between the EU and New Zealand, signed in Brussels in 2016, makes a significant contribution to strengthening cooperation between the EU and New Zealand, based, inter alia, on the following common values and principles: democratic principles, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and international peace and security. The Agreement complements and replaces the Joint Declaration on Relations and Cooperation adopted in 2007. It establishes a coherent and legally binding general framework for relations between the EU and New Zealand. All existing sector-specific agreements remain in force. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-31-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to take the opportunity to speak further. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. No one has applied for a post-meeting speech today. Thank you, fellow Members, for the work of the Office of Parliament, and thank you for keeping the minutes. The Parliament will resume its meeting next Tuesday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:30 p.m.]]
