u2017-05-04-0	Good morning. I'd like to welcome you. The 21st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that my fellow Members, László Földi and Dezső Believing, will be here to help me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Dear Parliament, XLII 2015 on the status of professional law enforcement staff. Law 137. According to Article 4 of the Act, St. Florian's Day is the holiday of our firefighters and disaster response agencies. Ladies and gentlemen, The right to safety and safe living conditions is a fundamental human right which is defined as a fundamental principle by the Fundamental Law of Hungary. To achieve this, we need to be aware of the dangers in our environment, to learn the rules of conduct to be followed in emergency situations, to be able to prevent and eradicate disasters. This is an extremely diverse task for our firefighters to carry out as a calling for life, risking their physical safety and their lives. However, serving the lives and safety of our citizens did not once become and continue to be a profession due to legal regulations, but on the basis of all the virtues that our firefighters have been serving our security in our country for nearly a century and a half. These virtues - self - sacrifice, courageous, disciplined duty, and the aid of fellow humans - were embodied in the medieval cult of St. Florian, and they did not lose their significance over a millennium and a half. With all these human values and professionalism, you don't have to have a professional relationship to be a firefighter. We should therefore also give special recognition to those who, in addition to their work and family, have taken the time to serve their environment as a voluntary firefighter, within the framework of more than 600 associations today. Like all firefighters, their role is more than just firefighting: in their communities they are not only alive but also mediators of the significant social-forming virtues mentioned above. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today it is important to remember the life and work of Ödön Széchenyi, who died in March 1922. Ödön Széchenyi has inexorable merit in organizing Hungarian fire protection. Thanks to his work, in 1870 the first professional and voluntary fire department in the capital was established on a modern and professional basis. Ödön Széchenyi, who was the younger son of Count István Széchenyi's son in 1839 saw the light of day, joined the army of the world-famous London firefighters of the period in spite of the Count's origins, in order to gain experience in setting up a similarly professional, domestic organization. With his dedication, courage and character, he soon won the recognition of his commanders, the crew and the higher English circles. After that, he used his experience not only at home. The Turkish sultan commissioned Széchenyi Ödön to set up and train Istanbul's professional fire department, which has now become a world-renowned firefighter. As a result of his work, he received a great many medals, and is still known as a fire pasa in Turkey. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the National Assembly of Hungary expresses its respect and thanks to all Hungarian firefighters, members of all domestic disaster management and rescue teams, in order to protect our lives and security, dedicated and ready for service, every day of the year. God bless you all. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in relation to defence issues until closure. The government referral is T/15344. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, When we presented last autumn the package of laws concerning the defence sector here in this House, we said that the proposal before us is called the common language salad law, and we have already stressed that instead of the word "supplied" as it is now, we would prefer to use the "supplied" label, because then and now the proposal before us can be regarded as the government's care package. We might add that this package of laws is also a motivational package, because as a member of the government and the Minister of Defence of Hungary, he was interested in honoring those who vowed to serve Hungary faithfully, to defend Hungary's independence, the rights and freedom of citizens bravely, in compliance with the Fundamental Law and the laws, and with the power of the soldiers and weapons entrusted to them, because we all agree that man, the national defender, is the highest value. Hungary is performing indisputably well, Hungary is strengthening, and one of the interesting consequences of which is that the labour market may not have sectoral unemployment, but also labour shortages. Motivation, in our case too, I think, is an extremely important factor. The government will also do its utmost to make the military service more attractive by appreciating professional, contractual or reserve soldiers, in order to help recruit volunteers. In addition, in this package, the author intends to establish the legal leg of the restructuring of the defence organisation. The aim of the bill is to regulate issues concerning the staff of the Hungarian Defence Office and the defence issue in general in order to provide a more effective public service. The government considers this to be feasible in part by amending the law on the status of soldiers, some of them not directly in the defence sector, but by amending laws affecting defence, defence, defence and the lives of soldiers. Without the need for completeness, there are some laws which are amended before us. The purpose of the amendment to the 1991 law on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits is to ensure that the duration of the actual service of voluntary reserve soldiers is also considered as a period of entitlement for entitlement to unemployment benefit. Or the purpose of the amendment of the 1992 Act on the Status of Civil Servants is to introduce rules recognising voluntary reserve service and to authorise the establishment of national protection sector rules on non-compliance with certain duties of civil servants. And so many more laws, of which I think the most important is the amendment of the law on the status of soldiers, which relates to the following main issues: encouraging voluntary reserve service; creating special rules for controlling the association assisting the activities of the Hungarian Defence Office from the service interest; or establishing rules for the termination of the legal relationship for the member of the staff appointed as the professional state manager of the Ministry of Defence led by the Minister for Defence, instead of the current transfer obligation; raising certain issues related to the legal status of the Hungarian Defence Scholarship Students; clarifying the rules for progress with respect to those assigned to another body; or addressing the practical problems encountered during the application of the law, in particular with regard to the rule system of health damage care. [[9.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The package of laws before us can therefore be called the package of care of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian government, because we think and believe that man, the soldier, the military, the military are the highest value in all traditional or electronic modern fighting instruments. Given that defence is a common concern for all of us, it is a national matter, I ask my fellow Members to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Imre Vas. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz faction supports this bill, which proposes to regulate certain issues concerning the status of soldiers and to resolve issues directly affecting the operation of the defence. The main objective of the amendment to the law on the status of military defenders is to strengthen the motivational elements of the voluntary reserve system, to resolve certain specific legal status issues and to establish clarification provisions. I would like to highlight the proposals made to amend the law on defence and the Hungarian Defence Agency and the measures that may be introduced in the special legal order. On the one hand, this aims at simplifying the rules for the call of voluntary reserve soldiers. The Hvt. At present, the Minister for Defence makes the call for voluntary reserve soldiers subject to his decision. For the future, the conditions for issuing effective service documents would be regulated at regulation level. On the other hand, the purpose of the amendment is to regulate the regime and order of the employer's succession in cases where the State tasks performed by the company under the ownership rights of the Minister of Defence and the staff of the Minister of Defence are transferred to an organisation of the defence. With regard to other laws, the proposal proposes to amend ten additional laws. Among these issues, I highlight the following. The draft encourages voluntary reserve service. It also proposes to amend the pension rules in order to ensure that the income acquired during the voluntary reserve service is not the basis for the retirement period, translated into ordinary language: however, this is not included in the voluntary reserve member's retirement pension. The amendment of the Law on the National University of Public Service creates the powers of the head of the university's military and military staff. The consequences of the inadequacy of the candidate for military officer are also clarified. The proposal also contains technical clarification provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction supports the bill before us. Please support me. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who will make his speech here on the platform. I'll wait for the congressman to raise himself to the stand. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-04-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Allow me to begin by confirming your memorial very, very briefly, by welcoming the firefighters on St. Florian's day, and thank you for being ready to help our troubled fellow citizens all year round, thank you for your oath to choose this noble profession today. Perhaps even particularly painful is the loss of a firefighter's uniform, the banishment of the name of the fireman himself. It is important to say on this day that this self-sacrifice work is unthinkable without the introduction of a decent service pension system, which is an important part of our programme today. Finally, a special thanks to our fellow citizens in a voluntary association that volunteered for fire fighting. Dear Parliament, I listened a little stunnedly to the keynote speech by the Secretary of State and the Fidesz. I didn't expect to speak here in Parliament first as opposition politician on the substance of the law, but let's do it this way. It is strange, however, that the specific rules of a very, very extensive salad law are not considered important by the parties of government, nor by the parties supporting it, to report something in public. Two weeks after the National Assembly voted on the salad law of the Ministry of Interior, the standard six-month correction and correction bill of the Ministry of Defence arrived today on a regular schedule. This time we are talking about a typical salad law, and in any other way, the fact is that it is a salad law that affects a multitude of non-compatible subjects. The only thing linking the elements of the bill is the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence to care for all regulatory issues. Typically, they didn't even try to explain in principle or codification why they were crowded into a single bill of law on a thousand unconventional subjects. His general justification is basically just a list of changing laws. As is usually the case with such salad laws, the bill now submitted contains a number of clearly necessary codification clarifications and, on the other hand, new provisions that are important and useful for the Hungarian Defence Forces. For example, efforts to retain professionals with skills in the field of skills shortages or changes to the rules on freedom redemption can be explicitly welcomed. Although a number of criticisms can be raised against the current form of the voluntary reserve system, encouraging voluntary reserve service with various grants and discounts is also forward-looking. However, despite these positive points, the overall picture is saddening, because the common feature of the salad laws submitted by the Ministry of Defence every six months is that they reflect the serious anomalies typical of the Orbán government's defence policy, which have been criticised by the MSZP in recent years. Thus, for example, this bill also affects reprimanded service pensioners, making the rules of over-service even more flexible, giving the minister more derogations from the legal rules, and it is still possible to continue the line. Rules on over-service are also outstanding in this area. As memorable, in the autumn of 2015, the Defense Salad Act, adopted by Fidesz, made the rules of the Service Act on rest and service periods override in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration. In the case of civil servants employed in the defence, it has brutally increased the maximum number of extraordinary work hours, which can be up to 832 hours a year, i.e. 104 working days. The bill that has just been tabled will further carve out the rules on over-service. According to this, in the future, the time spent on the watch will not be considered an over-service. This provision provides an additional opportunity to overwhelm and exploit the soldiers. Unfortunately, there is a very serious reason why, in the salad laws that come before us every six months, they hide in order a rule concerning the obligation of soldiers and military employees to do extra work. Unfortunately, there is a very serious real problem behind this government effort: the Hungarian Defence Office is struggling with an increasing shortage of staff every year. The dramatic increase in the number of uncharged posts since 2010 highlights the steep slopes of the Orbán government. [[9.20]] Due to the shortage of staff, the performance of the day-to-day operational tasks is now facing serious difficulties, while the Hungarian Defence Forces have to cope with increasingly dangerous foreign operations, and since 2015 they have also had to contribute to border surveillance tasks. The freezing of salaries until 2015 and the radical reduction of the defence budget have been devastating for the Hungarian Defence Forces. The salary increase started in 2015 was the last-minute lifeline for the military. The increase in the defence budget, which started last year, will only be sufficient for years to remedy the devastating effects of the withdrawal of funds in recent years, to increase its worth, and to modernise the military technology that is long overdue for a long time, cannot even be dreamed of by the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. The MSZP has been ringing the alarm for years now that immediate and effective measures have to be taken to reduce the shortage of staff, but our proposals for decisions on this matter have been voted off in order by Fidesz. It is easy to see that it will lead to even greater fluctuations if the problems arising from the shortage of staff are to be addressed by further straining and eviscerating soldiers serving the current service instead of increasing numbers. In view of all of this, it is particularly amazing that two weeks ago Fidesz taught opposition parties what responsibility for defence policy means. While they have not been able to show any major technical developments since they came to government, the Hungarian Defence Office has fallen from important abilities, and the shortage of numbers has reached unprecedented proportions. Perhaps real progress can only be shown in the care and care of military graves by the defense leadership. Instead of the substantial development of the Hungarian Defence Service, the Ministry of Defence can only afford to produce salad laws submitted every six months. For years, the assessment of the status of pensioners has caused a heated debate in principle between MSZP and Fidesz. This issue is also affected by the bill. We were strongly opposed to abolishing previously legally established service pensions, converting them into duties and reducing them by the level of service. So far, at least those who volunteered as a reserve soldier could have been exempted from the reduction. This exemption is not permitted by the bill for area conservation volunteers. Of course, the MSZP does not agree with this new restrictive rule, and we would be very curious to see the explanation of what is causing this new regulation, either by the Secretary of State or by any politician in Fidesz, because in the bill we would be searching for any justification for this, it is practically justified by the proposal itself - so we are introducing it, that is the case. With regard to this provision, I would like to reiterate firmly that the MSZP strongly opposes the reduction of the benefits that have been legally granted earlier, and that it will end this unfair face by going to government, restore retirement status to those from whom it has been taken and introduce a fair, new service pension system. In addition, the bill contains a number of questionable provisions. Thus, we do not agree with the amendment that would reward the professional way of life rather than the recognition of the outstanding work carried out in a specific period of application. Of course, it is out of the question that the outstanding professional course that has been put forward for many decades has to be recognised - which, by the way, was possible and possible until you have eliminated it - but this must be ensured not by means of performance benefits, but by other pay elements. The two can't and shouldn't be confused. We also disagree with the fact that, in the case of defence workers, the application of the Labour Code and the Public Employee Act is increasingly excluded from the application of the provisions of the Labour Code and, instead, they grant the Minister of Defence the power to establish a decree. This is particularly interesting when the Ministry of Interior is being sued in a mass, by thousands, by tens of thousands of civil servants, and with considerable success. This is probably what they want to prevent, and they probably want to recreate legislation that, with the power of the law, will make those civil servants who are helping the defence work completely vulnerable. Even at the time of the 2012 debate of the new Service Act, we opposed the possibility of conducting soldiers to social organisations. According to the bill just submitted, it will be possible to do so at the moment of admission, i.e. to conduct so-called soldiers to social organisations who have never been appointed to any service assignment. They probably want to introduce or re-introduce a new type of sports job after 27 years. Therefore, despite the many positive amendments contained in the bill, the Orbán government's fundamentally flawed defence policy is imprinted, many conceptually flawed provisions are corrected, and therefore the MSZP cannot support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Peter Konya applauds.]]
u2017-05-04-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Mátyás Firtl, lead speaker for the KDNP Group, is next. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The package of laws under discussion contains a proposal for an amendment to the 12 national defence law, which lies before this House as a result of the endeavour to serve as effectively as possible the value of the defences, to improve their living conditions, to further improve their personal conditions, to recognise and, above all, to promote the legislator's efforts to ensure the safest, decisive protection of our country. This endeavour is in line with the effective and unique solution in Europe, with which Hungary has from the outset found a successful solution to protect against the migration flows at our borders, while Europe is suffering from multiple crises, a competitive, migration, security, demographic and foreign policy crisis at the same time. It is thanks to our defences and police officers that, according to the Government's intentions, we have been able to protect our borders from the beginning, with the efficiency, determination and consistency that gives Hungarian citizens a sense of security and which is also effective in protecting European citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, The most effective implementation of the tasks of the Hungarian Defence Act is facilitated by the amendment of the law, knowing that in Hungary defence is a national matter, the pillars of which are national self-power and allied cooperation. This is why it is important to resolve and support national cooperation, issues relating to defence, which currently protects Hungary and Europe. Dear House, In the context of the amendment of the law, I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the Hungarian Defence Office is made up of an excellent staff, and its soldiers are still taking place around the world today. There are about a thousand soldiers abroad, taking part on the side of our NATO allies, in the coalition represented by all international communities, and everywhere, they commend the readiness of Hungarian soldiers, their conscientious and courageous stand. In the same way, Hungarian soldiers have performed their new task outstandingly to protect our southern borders in the past year and a half. The good news is that the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces has begun, which is included in the program Zrínyi 2026. The government has recently decided to increase the defence budget by 0.1 per cent of GDP by 0.15%, thereby increasing the intensity of the measures aimed at the appreciation of soldiers, to which the legislative package before us also provides an appropriate framework. There is also a period of modernisation of military technology, the steps of which are already noticeable. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to use this opportunity to thank the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, who give protection and security to all Hungarian citizens, within the walls of this House. It is a thank-you to all Hungarian soldiers who, in crisis zones, during military missions and with military humanitarian assistance, are exemplary in supporting Hungary's and the Hungarian Defence Office's recognition and rank by contributing to the creation and strengthening of security. And thank you to all those who serve on the borders of the country, to ensure the peace and security of our daily lives, our homes, in order to deal with the mass migration situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Defence with proper legislation and effectiveness is important primarily because of our security and our common value to protect. Security is an essential condition for the further development of the Hungarian economy, the growth of the country and the preservation of our common achievements so far, which can be guaranteed by our effective action against the most important security challenge of today, and in which our defence and defence have a crucial role. Ladies and gentlemen, We also welcome the amendments tabled in the light of what has been said. [[9.30]] These, as you have read, simplify, clarify, create consistency, strengthen efficiency and rationality, encourage, form special rules, and clarify, but are in any event designed by the legislator to give more respect and recognition to those who serve in defence. I would like to highlight a few topics to comply with Tamás Harangozó's call not to mention the issues on the government side. The purpose of the amendment to the 1991 law on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits is to ensure that the duration of the actual service of voluntary reserve soldiers who are not legally employed is also considered as a period of entitlement to a job-seeking allowance. The purpose of the amendment to the Act on the Status of Civil Servants of 1992 is to introduce rules recognising voluntary reserve service and to authorise the establishment of national security sector rules on non-compliance with certain duties of civil servants. The purpose of the amendment to the 1994 Law on War Care is to clarify, on the basis of experience with the application of the law, that the examination of health damage of military origin, which is the basis for the classification of annuities, should not entail a reduction in the benefits already established, and the draft clarifies the tasks of the Public Foundation in relation to improving means of living or working. The amendment of the Defence Act simplifies the rules for the call of voluntary reserve soldiers, establishes the legal basis for the employment of the spouse of foreign service workers in the employment relationship and settles the succession of employers in the case of the transfer of a State task and the staff of a company governed by the ownership rights of the Minister of Defence to a military organisation. The purpose of the amendment to the 2011 Public Service Officers Act is to introduce rules recognising voluntary reserve service and to facilitate interoperability between public service careers in the context of rules for setting basic salary at a higher level. The amendment of the 2011 Law on early retirement pensions and early retirement benefits addresses the differences in content between types of voluntary reserve service. The proposal also aims to ensure that the benefits of voluntary reserve soldiers serving in the actual service, in the light of emergency tasks caused by emergency situations or mass immigration, are not included in the income equivalent to 18 times the minimum wage, for which service allowances should be suspended. The amendment of the Act of 2012 on the Status of Patrons is related to the following main issues: encouraging voluntary reserve service, establishing special rules for controlling the Hungarian Defence Association, establishing rules for the termination of the law for the member of the staff appointed as the professional leader of the Ministry of Defence, instead of the current transfer obligation, raising certain issues related to the legal status of students with military scholarships, clarifying the rules of progress for those assigned to another body, addressing the practical problems encountered during the application of the law, in particular the rule of health care. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We all want a Hungary and a Europe where we can live our own Hungarian lives. We are working for a strong country that is developing, growing with all its citizens. Nothing can replace the nation states, Hungary, nothing can give us security instead of our safe homeland, where we feel at home and where we are, as long as we have committed countrymen, professionals, volunteers, young people and older people, women and men. Therefore, the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the amendment of the legislative package and I call on my fellow Members to support it. I mean, we can agree that the defense is a national matter. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gergely Kulcsár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to welcome the Hungarian firefighters, voluntary firefighters and thank them for their sacrifice on St. Florian's day. I trust that in the future, they will receive wages and honor in accordance with their sacrifice. Dear House, We are discussing a proposal to amend individual laws in relation to defence issues at this time. This is indeed a large-breathing proposal, 12 laws are being amended, mainly concerning legal status issues in this huge proposal. I would like to highlight some of these things that I think are important. With regard to the new rules on voluntary reserve soldiers, the proposal settles that, in the case of non-employed persons, the service performed under the voluntary reserve service is considered as a period of entitlement for the establishment of a job search allowance. Technically, the amendment of the Law on the status of civil servants is a motivation for the voluntary reserve to give preference to those with a voluntary reserve in the future, if they meet the same conditions, among those applying for a civil servant position. The proposal also states, by amending the Public Service Officers Act, that a senior government official may establish a voluntary reserve military service on the basis of the prior authorisation of the employer's exerciser. The system of benefits to encourage voluntary reserve military service is devoted to a whole chapter in the law, appointment, advancement, benefits, rank and so forth. We can support these rules on voluntary reserve soldiers. In the past, we have had similar suggestions, and we are glad that they are now being implemented. Other benefits could also make the voluntary reserve service more attractive, perhaps also provide some benefits to employers who employ reserve workers. And while this topic has already been mentioned and included in this bill, let me mention that we have received a request from Transcarpathia, the applicant talked about several young people, and asked us why Hungarian citizens who do not have a Hungarian address should not apply for a voluntary reserve. Perhaps this problem could be addressed, and Hungarians across the border who wish to apply for service should not be excluded, but do not have a home address. The rules on freedom redemption are also welcome in the bill; and I would also like to point out the amendment to the law on war care, which states that the amount of the final war invalid allowance will not be reduced if the war invalid is classified as a lower benefit class as a result of the revision of his eclipse of military origin. Of course, we also support this change. Jobbik has always had the heart of proper care and care for war criminals and war orphans, in which, fortunately, there has been consensus in this House and appropriate legislative amendments have been adopted. A number of other laws are being amended by the proposal before us, and changes to the law on the status of defences are broadly eligible for Jobbik. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement has always tried to engage constructively in defence issues, as we believe that this is the topic that in many cases cannot be the field of political battles. Protection of the country is a national matter that affects all Hungarians and is the most important pillar of national security. [[9.40]] Nevertheless, I must say that, although we see the will of the Minister of Defence to move forward in the defence field, it is also noticeable that, in parallel with the fine words and ideas, there is no action that the situation would require. We have repeatedly said that all governments that have been regressing over the past decades have a huge responsibility to decommission our forces. CHAPTER XXI There is little government performance to achieve an army that meets the challenges and techniques of the century. There is a need for systemic changes, which have an important role to play in the creation of defence management on a territorial basis, the patriotic education of young people, the creation of an air-supported army of all kinds, meeting the requirements of the age, the introduction of border guards and the resurrection of the Hungarian military industry. The line can continue. But back to the bill we are discussing, Jobbik can support it, especially given that there is positive progress on the voluntary reserve military service, especially in relation to the incentive benefit system. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-04-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am now speaking to Mr Peter Konya, who is speaking in his place. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin my speech by welcoming my former colleagues, firefighters and colleagues in disaster management to the occasion of St. Florian's Day. I believe that the men and women who undertake this service, in the most noble sense of the word, do indeed serve the country, the people. It is no coincidence that this profession, this profession, is one of the most popular professions in Hungary today. Our citizens appreciate them, and they appreciate them, because they are the ones who help us every day, if we get into trouble, if there's a disaster, if there's a fire, if someone's cat goes up the tree, but in all kinds of troubles, it's the firefighters we can count on every day. However, if it is St. Florian's day, let me use this day and draw your attention to one thing: it is unworthy that, on the one hand, indeed, as my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó mentioned, they have taken away the uniform of firefighters, the name of the firefighter, and they have compressed the firefighters with great traditions under an organizational name called disaster protection. It would be time to reflect on how unworthy it is that these people who stand up and help us every day are called disaster protection. They're not protecting the disaster, they're averting the disaster. By the way, I don't know who the deranged man named this organization, and then it became practically socialized in Hungary. Try to interpret that word. These people are not protecting the disaster, they are helping to prevent the disaster. Instead of building stadiums, instead of propaganda costs, it would be nice to spend a few hundred million forints to give this organization a normal name, because it is unworthy of the people who otherwise serve in it. And let us also commemorate firefighters who have been in an accident, suffered health damage, or died in the line of duty. I think we should remember them today, too. And then I'd like to get to our real agenda. I have to say that, reading through this package of laws, I have also come to the conclusion, in agreement with my colleague Tamás Harangozó, that this is nothing more than the draft salad law resulting from the serious shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces. It's not the first time you've played it with different laws to put salad laws in front of us, which have really positive measures of the type of honeycomb, and in the process of smuggling things that are absolutely negative, otherwise hindering further service, or taking rights away from soldiers, or putting additional overload on them. That's exactly what the law is like. There are many positive elements of this bill that they should have done a long time ago, but at least they're here. And then let me mention a few of these. Before I mention these, I would like to refer to the voluntary reserve service... - because one of the main motivations of the law is that somehow, in some way, it tries to orient the broadest possible sections of society towards the voluntary reserve service, to motivate people to take on a voluntary reserve service, as the active personnel and contractual personnel of the Hungarian Defence Office are struggling with a serious shortage of staff, which they are trying to remedy. After all, the tasks have increased, whether we are thinking of soldiers serving on the southern border or of soldiers serving on a foreign mission, we do not have the right number. Mr. Secretary. The main task of the defence government and the management of the defence portfolio would be to do so by uploading active personnel and contractual staff and by introducing motivational tools that people actually undertake professional service or, where appropriate, contract military service. By abolishing the institution of the service pension system, they took out a motivational tool that motivated people most to serve 25, 30, 35 years with honor and then become entitled to the service pension system if they ever lived that age. Because a lot of the soldiers, unfortunately, but we could talk about the police, the firefighters, the prison guards, they won't live to see that age. Therefore, I consider the abolition of the service pension system to be one of your greatest sins, and that, by the way, this was obviously a noble and a positive intention, that the voluntary reserve service, which was completely destitute after the change of regime, was somehow revived, because otherwise, in every normal society, this is a concern for voluntary reserve soldiers - that is not the problem. The problem is that you didn't create a voluntary reserve military service system, but a voluntary and forced reserve system, because that's how you uploaded it in the first place, and you're counting on those who were, by the way, retired. You have withdrawn some of your honor and honoured allowance by terminating your service pension and transferring it to a service allowance. In addition, this has not only been transferred but has been reduced by the highest rate of the current tax rate. They achieved nothing but virtually deprive these people of their rights, and then very graciously offered to return to those who, by the way, undertake the voluntary reserve military service, what had been taken from them completely unjustly. This wasn't supposed to be the way it was supposed to be, Mr. Secretary, but you weren't in position at the time. Nevertheless, he may be the successor to this, and he must take responsibility for this government. This should have been done simply by means of positive motivational means, whether it was policemen, firefighters or soldiers, who were retired in the service, taking on a voluntary reserve service, not by taking away, and then dripping back something. It is clear from the bill itself that a number of measures are trying to smuggle back some of the elements of the institution of the service pension system, since you have also realised that you do not dare to admit that the abolition of the service pension system has been a terrible mistake, because it seems that a lot of people are on the street. Unfortunately, I can't tell you the numbers, because it was you who made it classified information when I asked how many people were on the street after the retirement of the service pension system without having received any kind of care, even though you had, say, your 25-year service relationship, and either in connection with restructuring, or for medical reasons, or for other things. During the transitional period, until the health benefit has been introduced, during this roughly five years, I can't give a number because the data has been classified, all I can say is that a number of soldiers who served in honor for 15, 20, 25 years, or even 30 years have not received any benefits and benefits, while these people have, by the way, undertaken professional military service with the knowledge that they have served these years with honor and honor that when they end their service, the state will take care of them. [[9.50]] Compared to that, you put these people out on the street. It would be good to think about what to do with people on the streets during the transition period. To say one or two positive things: obviously because of what I said, you have withdrawn or reduced your allowance for the service benefits, you are bringing back elements to which you can say again that it is a positive element. After all, I have initiated the benefits myself, and the trade unions have initiated them. So it can be said that this is a positive element of the law amendment, but it would be easier to abolish the withdrawal itself and then not to deal with such things. It would be fair, since you said that Hungary is performing better, then we do not understand why it is necessary to reduce, in my opinion, the benefits already received, by way of law, the former pensioners of armed law enforcement agencies. Indeed, there is a positive change in freedom and a positive amendment to the law on the legislation of the military health body on public health care. You may have been motivated by the fact that, in recent times, more suspects and other things have happened in the Hungarian Defence Service. While I myself was a professional soldier, it was basically about the fact that when we made complaints like this, that public health conditions were not good in barracks and other places of service, we were always told that it could be decommissioned, and that the soldier was willing to do what he was doing; so could there be no labour inspection. It would be good, Mr State Secretary, if you would also consider who could hold OSH checks in the Hungarian Defence Office. By the way, or at least very complicated, as as a trade union leader, we have had a very difficult time keeping OSH checks in the Hungarian Defence Office, while in peacetime, I think that it would be particularly important for the Hungarian Defence Office as a dangerous plant to carry out such checks and make the necessary corrections, as well as in terms of public health conditions. I think that this is a positive step forward, but it would be good for them to do the same with regard to labour protection, because it does not have to be done if there are work accidents of a kind that will then be tried to remedy this with various legislative amendments. In terms of sports, I really don't want to see Major and Lieutenant Colonel football players again in Kispest-Honvéd or any of the teams. Obviously now we have Minister of Guns, and now we're gonna have Major and Lieutenant Colonel soccer again. By the way, let's hope they're world-famous, but they don't necessarily have to be majors and lieutenants. You can't agree with this sports job thing at all. It is obvious that this is his intention to be directed to various social organisations. Once again, you dress soldiers in uniforms - this is not the way to motivate these people to give uniforms to civilians, by the way. That was a very bad way to do it before. In agreement with my colleague Tamás Harangozó, too much of this legislation is wrong, while there are some positive elements, so I myself am struggling to support or support this amendment. I am going to sleep on it and see what amendments are going to be tabled before the committee, and if there are, by the way, some positive amendments that are more likely to tip me in the direction that I can vote. I trust that the wallet will be constructive in this, and I hope that, by the way, the development of forces that you have promised will no longer be carried out by your government, but by ours. Thank you so much for listening. [[Szabolcs Szabó and Tamás Harangozó applaud.]]
u2017-05-04-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From now on, two-minute speeches and further speeches by Members are now possible. Accordingly, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-04-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to welcome the firefighters in the first round of St. Florian's Day and welcome the staff of the disaster management body, and thank them for the service they perform every day for the safety of the Hungarian people and wish them more strength and health for the service. Speaking of the specific amendment to the law, it has been said here several times that it is a salad law. Absolute salad law, apparently, 12 laws are being amended by the proposal before us. This shows one thing: that in recent years there has been no concept, no concept, no idea, no concrete concept of how to improve the Hungarian defence, how to improve the efficiency of its operation. We meet regularly with this, that there are constant repairs, replacements, and there is no vision of what the Ministry of Defence would like to achieve, but otherwise this is also typical of the Ministry of Interior, but its small details are already presented to us by codification and legislation - this remains unacceptable to me. I also do not understand, although it is now a small matter why the Minister for Defence did not submit this proposal, and by the way, how the Deputy Prime Minister will be included in this proposal, and more specifically on the part of the government. Furthermore, at the beginning of the bill, on the cover sheet, it is mentioned that this has been discussed with the relevant professional organisations. I would like to ask the Secretary of State exactly who has been consulted on this proposal to amend 12 laws, what they have given us, and how much time have they had on this matter, by the way. I mean, it's not that you agreed with him, it's that it's been discussed, so I'd like to keep that to you as a question. So it is still the feeling of the man that they are trying to create laws merely by creating the appearance of hard work here, and that, as one of my fellow members of the government mentioned, they are clarifying. One thing that has become clear to me again: that there is no concept and that they have no idea what to do with the situation that has evolved in recent years, which has not, by the way, developed unexpectedly; the pro-government and this government have done a great deal to create such a serious situation as the functioning of the Hungarian Defence Agency at the moment, but they have no idea how to deal with this escalated situation now. It can also be seen from the fact that we can now actually see some changes to the Defense Act or the Law on the Status of Patriots, or anything that concerns the Hungarian Defence Act, every three months. It's just untenable. Therefore, the system itself cannot be implemented in such a short period of time. By the time the system adapts to a new situation, the system will create new laws. This remains unacceptable. And, as I said, they always refer to flexibility and clarification - I think that is simply unconventional. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the solution is not always to adapt the rules to an increasingly deteriorating situation, but to improve the situation. I think - I hope so, but I think - that there are still some experts near the Ministry of Defence, and I am sure that they will be able to tell you exactly what is needed from a professional point of view, that the order, the framework required by politics, what the task of the Hungarian Defence Office is, what professional aspects must be applied to meet it, exactly what tools, what structure is needed, and what policy can then implement this. So I think that the profession should actually be more concerned in this matter, because we see that politicians are really interfering with issues of a professional nature, and from then on the whole system is covered. It is a matter of fact, as my fellow Members have mentioned before me, and I do not want to mention point by point what the small positives, which, yes, the law contains, must be acknowledged. For my part, I'm asking where these positives have been. For example, regarding the motivational elements of the voluntary reserve system, from which we see very little in this proposal, which lies before us, where have they been? Why haven't these been implemented so far? [[10.00]] In any case, it is still in question how they will be implemented, as I see that the concept or vision of the voluntary reserve system or the structure currently in place is not fully coherent, and we do not even know what the specific development directions would be. So the little positives that are visible, I think that the minimums that can be expected, after the last few years, are just the fulfilment of the minimums that can be expected. All the other restrictive, sanctioning measures that you call flexibility, which is once again good for pressing the stock, are once again good for an incredibly overloading stock already exploited at around 120 per cent, all of which are only additional actions, since substantial steps are not taken to improve the situation, and they are therefore trying to deal with this by providing all kinds of legislative and regulatory flexibility. It cannot be dealt with as a matter of substance, and if this is not resolved, then it can provide the country's safety, because in order to be able to perform its task properly, safely, it is necessary to be predictable and to have the right legal environment for them, and obviously - I will mention this later - perhaps, let us say, tools. I would therefore ask, Mr State Secretary, where is the substantive action, because we are seeing the replacement action now. How will the stock be stocked? How will the Hungarian Defence Forces become operational technical tools? What will build the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces? And by the way, what's going to make any predictable careers, both from recruitment, even including the voluntary reserve system, but all the way to Retired or reconverting, if any, so what does this look like? Because this package of proposals certainly doesn't solve them, it's just a substitute act and overcoding. And then I'd like to say a few words about the voluntary reserve system, because I've asked the Department of Defense several times in writing about where this case is going. There is now a voluntary reserve system, which is currently considered to be in operation, and in principle a voluntary reserve system has begun to be established, and the necessary concept has been developed, and we still see nothing of it, Mr Secretary of State. The answer to my questions was that the government had discussed this, so to speak, sent the proposal back to the strategic cabinet to give some suggestions, solutions, and then there was no way to know what had happened. Has the government discussed this? Where is this concept at? 'Cause you can see that there are tiny elements, and there are certain things coming up here, but you can't see what they're trying to do with it, and you can't see what the defense political leadership is trying to do. I just hope it's not what we were talking about, that there will be 20,000 VRSs here, and by the way, they will try to compensate for the huge shortage of professional forces that has now developed in recent years. We can certainly talk about a shortage of more than 6,000 people, but according to some expert calculations, this can reach 8,000 people, so I think that there is a need for meaningful action to create an environment that does help as many people as possible to join the Hungarian Defence Corps and to serve as members of either a contract or a professional staff; in any case, these are not so-called large-scale plans, but very empty plans, such as those which, based on all kinds of unknown concepts, can only be heard from rumors, because the government has nothing to do with Members' noses, perhaps even with the representatives of the government. The crisis caused by mass immigration is also one of these, to say, a delicate point, because there was a particular situation that had to be dealt with, but it seems that in the spirit of flexibility here too, given the enormous shortage of defences and the fact that it has actually fallen to the brink of inability, they are trying to resolve the situation by, as the speakers before me have mentioned, abolishing the extent of overwork and over-service, the maximum of it, being pushed to the limit of infinity, and otherwise, in the current bill, they are still pushing this situation. So it's definitely not a solution, it's just an appearance, so everyone can reassure themselves that a bill has been voted on, and everything is fine from now on. It's not gonna be okay. If something can be fixed from the vote on something, it would otherwise be a substantial increase in the defence budget. In the current situation, therefore, we can certainly say that there is a shortage of more than 6,000 people, a huge shortage of resources, a loss of capabilities, we know that the fighting helicopter capacity has ceased, and the ability to transport has also been largely on the brink of extinction, although it is a fact that the Ministry has just taken steps in this, but this is not a long-term solution, not even a medium-term solution, Mr Secretary of State. It is necessary to modernise merit, not only to retain the skills, but also to develop meaningfully, because the world is moving, the security policy environment is changing, and yes, however important it is to develop the special operational regiment, for example, it is a fact that, for example, in terms of transport capacity, they may also have needs to carry out their tasks, and even essential conditions, which can be provided only by technical means. And here, I was just talking about the biggest things, and I just mentioned a few things from the most pressing things, because there are a lot of other things I could mention. However, even if we look at everyday life, despite how much the stock is overloaded and what this situation looks like, the state of the individual equipment at all, the way working conditions look, it requires very urgent action. So we're actually talking about the fact that there's no practice in the clothing store and there's no boots. You can't work like this. As my fellow Members have said, you have terminated the institution of the service pension, it has been a very humiliating situation for those who have served decades in the Hungarian Defence Corps, this is completely unacceptable, and it is natural that this must be changed after 2018 and the establishment of a preferential pension system is necessary. The reason I'm not saying this is because you're clearly not willing to establish such a system, so another government is going to have to do it. If we are talking about pensioners, allow me to mention the case of victims of the Honvéd Health Fund, where, after a year and a half of fighting, it was fortunately possible to get compensation for the active population, but the pensioners are still missing this compensation. What I see is that the Ministry is trying to improve the numbers of the voluntary reserve system by ensuring that those who undertake one day's service can receive compensation - they cannot be subject to such conditions. Anyone who doesn't do that kind of service, so does he. He's got to get it. What is needed for the future is therefore a substantial increase in the budget. What we see from budget 18 is not yet, and we will certainly discuss it in the debate on the budget. Bernadett Szél and I submitted a proposal for a resolution, in which we envisaged that the Hungarian Defence budget should reach 2% of GDP by 2022, and this can only be achieved by raising the budget to 1.2 percent by 2018 and a 0.2 percent increase every year thereafter. This is necessary, because what the government has taken as a minimum, and so far, thanks to heaven, seems to be perhaps in the budget for next year, this 0.1 percent, now perhaps 0.13, that if I remember correctly, comes out roughly this way, it is not enough to compensate even for depreciation. In addition, competitive income must be provided for both soldiers and defence workers. Modernisation is necessary, and this requires an appropriate concept for both the ground forces and the air force; and, of course, to ensure a proper course of life, a career and a preferential pension system. And speaking of concept, I'd like to say two more words about developments and concepts here. Where's the program "Zrínyi 2026"? Has anyone seen him? Secretary of State, please respond to that. It would be very good if it were in the committees, or in the really appropriate circles of Members of Parliament, but it would be possible to discuss the developments that we are talking about, because we have read a few things in the newspapers, but I have not actually seen such a proposal, and I understand that I am not alone. To sum up, it is not the rules that need to be adapted to the increasingly worse situation, but the situation needs to be improved, and this is very true for the Hungarian Defence Office. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Defense should really be a national matter. This proposal, which lies before us, is unfortunately not for this purpose again, so it cannot be supported on my part. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause in the ranks of independent representatives.]] [[10.10]]
u2017-05-04-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their supporting contributions, either from the pro-government side or from the opposition side. It is very exciting every time the MSZP representative talks about the defence budget, the lack of skills and the lack of development, because if we move in a timeline, Hungary was on the brink of ruins between 2002-2010 and exactly during the governance of the MSZP, and was in a financial and budgetary position that the second Orbán government inherited in 2010. From there, we had to pull Hungary back from a situation on the brink and put it back on the path of development and progress, and at the cost of the efforts of the Hungarian people, we all made a common effort. Thus, the capabilities disappeared when, between 2002-2010, the former government of the MSZP, the defence budget was in a state because the country's budget was in a state in which the MSZP was involved in Hungary, the budget, and the defence budget, which Hungary was able to keep at the level of great effort. And when Mr President puts it and uses the necessary words to characterize certain parts of the package of laws before us, he sums up the overall picture as sad; it seems that the campaign rehearsal is taking place not only outside this House, but also in this House. Mr President, on my count, Mr President, you are asking that there is no guiding thread linking these individual proposals, and other Members have been counting on why this law is a salad. That is why I emphasized in the introduction that although the common language calls the law a salad, there is a guiding thread here, perhaps more, one is definitely the care, and the other is the motivation, and the aim of the bill package is to apply the laws that lie before us, because motivation is important to us, and it is important to us to appreciate soldiers, and this is the guiding thread that goes through the bill. Congressman pointed out that we have made progress in caring for the graves of war, but he said it as if it were the only thing we were dealing with. This is one of the things we are talking about, the care of the war tombs, the tombs of World War I or World War II heroes, because there were 40 years, honourable Member, in this country, when the monuments and tombs where the heroes of the First World War and the great war were calm, were not to be cared for and cared for, and the heroes of World War II were not to be remembered. So here we have very, very much to pay against the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation, and that is what we are doing. Several Members and Congresswoman have also been involved in the matter of service allowances and pensions. I'd like us to approach this from another side. If we look at justice from the rest of society, we see that this system is more just from the point of view of society than it was before, and in the meantime it remains possible, it has the opportunity for soldiers to retire earlier, and when we talk about the voluntary service of soldiers enjoying service, we should rather thank these soldiers for their voluntary service. [[Péter Kónya: In order not to starve to death, Minister of State.]] My fellow Members have also spoken about the shortage of numbers, and I would like to emphasise the word motivation again. This package of laws is doing so with the guiding thread of motivation, and we have already done so before, to encourage Hungarians not only to volunteer, but also to serve in contract and professional terms. That is why, in recent years, we have created for the crew the labour market bonus that significantly increased their salary, and this year it is an integral part of the salary, not a bonus. The congresswoman asked me about the advocacy consultation. We have discussed the package of proposals with the Hungarian Defence Union, Hodos and Beos, and they have agreed on this. The basis for modernisation is a 0.1 percent increase. I don't want to continue this number war that 0.1 percent is enough, or 0.13 is enough. There's always a number that's more than the previous number, you can always say that the previous number's not enough, and then someone's got a bigger number, and they're just saying that I won because I can give you a bigger number. This is what the performance of the economy that is improving as a result of the work of the Hungarian people will enable, and we will make use of it. We will also begin the modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Fund in the programme, the next year's budget, the 2018 budget will be here in front of this House within days, and the figures are already visible, the defence budget will increase, which we will be able to spend on modernisation, but we have already done so. In the law on the victims of the national health insurance company, we did everything the law allowed us to do, even if this health insurance company was only in its name. Neither the Hungarian Army nor the Ministry of Defence had any legal relationship with this health insurance company, but we feel responsible for the members, who are very many soldiers. Their indemnification has begun, the law has created the legal basis, the government decree has been issued, the work is under way, and thousands have already received the money they deserve. I therefore call on my honourable fellow Members to support this package of laws, because it is, in fact, about the appreciation of soldiers, soldiers, as prime values, along the lines of care and motivation. Finally, allow me to welcome the firefighters and workers in disaster management, to welcome them on the occasion of the feast of St. Florian, and to thank them for their sacrifice, which they often do with soldiers and soldiers, and as a Member of Parliament in Székesfehérvár, I also especially welcome the firefighters in Székesfehérvár. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a resolution on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation until its closure. [[10.20]] The government referral is H/15345. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are starting a general debate on the proposal for a decision before us, but I trust that the word debate in this case will be a name common to Parliament and not a real debate between us, because we hope and hope that there will be no representative here who would question the need to combat terrorism or crimes against humanity. The Hungarian Government is determined to act against threats by all means at its disposal in the federal system. As we all well remember, the extremist terrorist organization Islamic State has taken over very important areas from the time it was founded in 2013, in the east and in the northwest of Syria. In these areas, the Islamic State has systematically committed human rights violations, genocide and other crimes against humanity against members of religious denominations other than Christians and Sunni. In addition to the Iraqi and Syrian areas, the Islamic State terrorist organisation has committed terrorist acts in other countries since then. Under the leadership of the United States, a broad international coalition of more than 60 countries has been established within the NATO federal system, and as a result of the joint efforts of the coalition and Iraqi forces, the Kurdish Pesmerga forces, some 62 percent of the territories held in 2014 have now been lost by the Islamic State, but, despite the successes achieved so far, further efforts will be needed. In the time since then, we can say that the work and service of the Hungarian Defence Forces are successful, that the Hungarian soldiers are successfully serving within the maximum framework of about 150 people, and our allies have said this in many forums, as part of our appreciation. But the work is not finished, the work must continue. We see that NATO and the new US government, as well as the new US administration, want to pay more and more attention to the fight against international terrorism and to the resolution of the migration crisis, which, of course, Hungary welcomes, as we have been expressing this view since the beginning of the migration crisis, and this is naturally in line with our efforts. It is definitely important that, on the basis of the government's much-spoken intention, one of the key keys to resolving the migration crisis is to eliminate the reason for migration there, at the point of origin where immigrants start, so that not only our national interests are humanitarian but well-informed, and we are all interested in stabilising the security situation in Iraq and Syria, and as a result of the coalition's joint effort, immigrants should not start their journey from these countries, or immigrants who have started to move towards Europe or are in refugee camps in Turkey can return to the country, their birthplace, where I think they would like to live. In 2017, this year the mandate of the Hungarian Defence Parliament expires, and in light of what has been said, it is necessary to continue our participation in the fight against the Islamic State with a larger number of contributions extended until 31 December 2019. With this major military engagement, we will strengthen the Kurdish relations that are important to us in Iraq, we will also be involved in protecting local Christians and in mitigating and eliminating the root causes of the migration crisis affecting Europe and Hungary as well. Pursuant to Article 47 (2) of the Fundamental Law, two thirds of the Members of Parliament present may give their consent to the participation of the Hungarian Defence Office in international coalition operations against the terrorist organization Islamic State, and I therefore ask and recommend that the Parliament give its consent that the Hungarian Defence Office may continue its successful service and work until 31 December 2019 in this coalition service with up to 200 persons, with necessary technical tools and weapons, during the transition period. I ask you to give your support to the continuation of service and work in the spirit of this sense of responsibility. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-05-04-19	Mr. President. Dear House, Hungary's involvement in North Iraq's operations as part of the international coalition is a well-known fact, and the fact is why we took a role. I think there is no debate about how we all judge terrorism, no debate between us about how we judge the Islamic State and the violence that cripples the lives of millions of people in the East and the West. Our whole engagement reflects our understanding of what can be summarized in a short sentence: we must not bring trouble here, but we must bring help to where the trouble is. The fact that the world's civil wars, religious wars, and holy wars make millions of people run for their lives is spreading violence and destabilizing regions and, through it, the whole world's regions are clear as day. The fact that we have to do something about it is clear. And it is also clear that only the international cooperation can act against this, the legal basis of which in this case is the request made by the Iraqi Government for the international coalition, the request to help in Iraq to create peace in some way. Of course, there are many ways to establish peace, but we have seen that when, with an international mandate, any strong coalition - and whether it is a UN or any other mandate - with major forces in the world is in some way in order to use a significant military force in such a way that the local forces are very weak or not involved, it is not a lasting solution, because whether we like it or not, the American soldier is an American soldier in every Arab's eyes, even if he is coming to liberate them. This feeling is known to us, because a series of questions are immediately raised that are extremely difficult to answer. We can remember that we have known since Miklós Zrinyi that the freedom that others bring does not necessarily involve additional freedom, but may create new oppression. Therefore, the entire doctrine has changed in relation to the situation in Northern Iraq, and basically the current international coalition relies on its training and equipment to support local, organised forces that are otherwise able to combat the Islamic State and, where appropriate, to beat the Islamic State by military force. Of course, this also has very serious negative past experiences, since let's just think that the engagement in training in Afghanistan has led to the fact that, by the way, the Russians first and then the Americans gave excellent training to Taliban fighters that, of course, turned against the Western army and brought further destabilisation into that region. [[10.30]] So this is also a serious risk. However, the fact that something has to be done is clear as day. We cannot stand by and watch millions of people being driven away from their homes from religious beliefs, races or other differences in identity, making them runaways, destroying settlements, and threatening all regions from which people, not knowing what else to do, are migrants, or hundreds of thousands of refugees from these regions are actually coming to the European Union. So the fact that Hungary is involved in this international cooperation is, in our view, highly desirable, and I believe that this may not be guided by party political convictions. Perhaps no one voted in favour of the previous decision on the basis of the conviction - the Hungarian Parliament supported the participation in Northern Iraq with the first decision of over 70 percent - but led by the conviction that here it is essentially our duty to be humane and convinced that the international coalition is really very shady and has a diverse community of sixty countries. I could personally see that the Hungarian soldiers were excellent in the tasks assigned to them by the Parliament, or authorized by the Parliament, both for guarding objects, team escorting and training tasks. I can safely say that, in the context of cooperation so far, Hungarian soldiers have been entrusted with tasks that I cannot describe here, but I must say that the highest level of preparedness and confidence is shown in the tasks that Hungarian soldiers have received. Now we need to make another effort to resolve the North Iraq conflict, see what is changing in the North Iraq battlefield, and how the Islamic State is repressed as a result of international cooperation. I believe that if we have started this process now, we cannot hesitate to increase the quota, because I can safely say that a little more effort will be made to bring the eradication of the Islamic State and the cessation of the activities of this terrorist organisation. Therefore, I respectfully ask everyone in the ranks of the parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they are opposition or pro-government representatives, to listen to the order of humanity, to listen to the command of the values that we all represent, both in terms of human rights and freedoms, and to support the request to increase the number of Hungarian quotas in Northern Iraq to 200 people - of course this will increase to 400 people during the transition period - and to support the decision by which the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian people will contribute to the fight against international terrorism in proportion to their strength. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-04-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I'm sure there's no debate between us on a lot of issues. There is no debate between us on how to judge terrorism or the importance, the need for action against the Islamic State. There is no discussion between us, I am sure there is no need to help where the problem has occurred, and I fully agree with Lajos Kósa that these conflicts can indeed be resolved at the root of conflicts, in time and in space when conflicts arise. There are several ways to do this. Unfortunately, we have to say and admit that one of these devices is the military device. Obviously, war conflicts cannot be resolved by other means. But there are other means. There is a means of humanitarian aid. And if we can talk for a minute about the future, there will be nothing in the military solution if we don't give this region an economic aid that can guarantee that people born there want to live there, live, and build their own country in normal living conditions. After I personally have had the pleasure of visiting our troops out there, the other thing that needs to be made clear and I can only confirm that all the fellow countries and the locals' greatest recognition and thanks are being carried out by our soldiers there. In this sense, of course, I would also like to thank them again, within the walls of Parliament, for their sacrifice and for the fact that the country's reputation in these circles is greatly enhanced and, of course, for their experience. Finally, there is not a consensus in everything, and it certainly wasn't, because it was seen in the decision the other day. It is true that the decision has passed by 70 percent, but if we look at the percentage of political forces in Parliament who supported it, we should see that this was not nearly consensual. Among other things, it was not consensual because it was a misconception in the previous round. Many sentences were said by the then Minister of Defence, who had been forced to resign since then, which were objectively found not to be true about the mission. The engagement of the mission, the activities carried out there, and the request took days and weeks to lie at all levels. I am telling you this because the Hungarian Socialist Party has not yet decided on the support, we will decide next week, and otherwise there are many questions that I cannot even answer from a professional point of view to my fellow Members, because not a single word has been said again from the Secretary of State or from the lead speaker of Fidesz. You concerned only two things: the date of the extension of the mission and the number of people. However, two very important points are also changed in the text: the expression " military assistance" and the term "military advice" have been added. We would like to make it clear that without you telling us in public exactly what this means, whether this can mean that Hungarian soldiers will be involved in a real armed conflict and are empowered to do so or cannot report it, for example, a responsible decision cannot be taken in this regard. Finally and very briefly: the Defence and Police Committee has not yet seen the importance of meeting before the general debate and even clarifying these issues in a closed session. Therefore, I will conclude my speech by saying that, until this is done, I cannot even say yes or no to you professionally, and that, obviously, in the knowledge of this information, our faction and our party will be able to make a somewhat simpler decision. Let us hope that there will be a chance to clarify these issues. Thank you for listening.
u2017-05-04-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Mátyás Firtl. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-04-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to preserving international peace and security. Strengthening international mechanisms to prevent crises and to deal with conflicts that have already been established is essential for the security of Hungary, but also for the security of Hungary. It is therefore in Hungary's interest and intention, as well as as as an international coalition involving more than sixty countries, that we have an obligation to play an active role in global regional organisations that are part of the international security architecture, including international action to eradicate terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, The actions of the 2013 extremist terrorist organization, its human rights violations, are equal to genocide, the targets of which are not only Christians living in Iraq, as well as religious minorities and ethnic groups, whose physical destruction is carried out in the cruelest manner by the Islamic State, but, unfortunately, as Europe experienced at the cost of innocent lives, terrorist acts are now a real threat to all European citizens. This is reprehensible and, most importantly, to be prevented, this must be combated and fought. [[10.40]] The three-million-dollar internal refugee population and the million-dollar migrant flood targeting Europe are also the main causes of the Islamic State terrorist organisation's crimes against humanity. It is also not a question of the arrival of people or potential members of the terrorist organisation with the uncontrolled migrant population, coming to Europe with the intention of carrying out terrorist acts here. This threat has been a real threat to Europe's everyday life for years now, here in this geographical area, and not just somewhere far from us in the East. We also need to be aware that the fact that the terrorist organisation is constantly recruiting European citizens to carry out further terrorist acts is a real threat to the lives of our peace, homes and families. Ladies and gentlemen, Irregular migration is a defining and prolonged phenomenon of our time, which we must definitely count on, but more importantly, to which we must find an effective solution. From the beginning, the Hungarian government has found an appropriate solution thanks to the fact that it considered the interests of the country, the security of the Hungarians, to be the most important goal. Just to remind you: Hungary has stood up for the interests of the Hungarian people from the beginning, so Hungary has protected Hungarian people and the citizens of the European Union from the uncontrolled flood of migrants and its consequences by means of all possible means, with a strengthened legal and physical and technical border closure. In the same way, according to what has been said, we must consider the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation as a means of protecting us, because the threat still has not passed, because there is no peace in the Middle East and in North and Central Africa, millions are ready to move towards Europe. The complexity of the situation and the seriousness of the struggle on the political front are indicated by the fact that smugglers and agent organisations are also collaborating in flooding the continent with immigrants. In spite of the consistent, and now all the attacks, the element of our migrant policy, which has been considered to be followed by more and more European countries, has always been that the crisis, as has already been said, should not be brought here, but should be resolved where it was created. Therefore, we support the Hungarian government, which is committed to stopping terrorism and extremists, in its efforts to ensure that radical foreign groups, the terrorist threat, remain outside the borders of the country. This principle is therefore reinforced by our contribution to the operation of the international coalition against terrorism, which has also taken place in the 2015 parliamentary resolution. In that Parliament he granted permission to the Hungarian Defence Office until the end of 17th. As regards the previous parliamentary resolution, the KDNP Parliamentary Group agrees that Hungary should send troops to support the Western Coalition, which was established to take action against the Islamic State, extending the quota until the end of 2019. This will strengthen protection and protection in the region. Thirdly, the Parliament made the wisest decision when it gave the mandate in 2015, because this is also proof that Hungary has fulfilled its obligations arising from its belonging to the Western value world. I stress that military engagement, if the Parliament once again gives its consent to a military contingent of up to 200 people on a commitment level of 400 people in Iraq, represents insurance tasks. Our security is in the interest of all of us, so I ask for your agreement, your support for all the factions. This also increases and strengthens Hungary's security, foreign policy mobility and ability to assert its interests. Ladies and gentlemen, Like the Member before me and the previous item on the agenda, I have done so, please allow me to use this opportunity in this House to thank the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces, who have been fair in foreign missions, who stand up and rightly gain recognition, respect and rank for their country. Thank you, thank you for contributing to the creation and strengthening of security. At the same time, allow me to thank all those who serve on the borders of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, The active Hungarian engagement in crisis management and peacekeeping serves the security of our country and the Hungarian people, so the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party recommends, supports, and asks the parliamentary factions to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-04-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Adam Mirkóczki. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think that we have missed a zero step, not only now, but also in the decision to take the first mission; in the debate that we are going through, we have not touched on the most important and serious issues that are really important and of medium- and long-term relevance. The first is both in the internal political sense and in the international arena, whether we can be honest about decisions of this magnitude, which, where appropriate, could cost the lives of Hungarian citizens. Can we talk about the truth and talk about the actual responsibility and the role we play in it? I think that, at some point, in these matters, it is important that we actually, without taboos, speak honestly and truthfully about the truth. If we look at the recent years or the Middle Eastern policy of the past decade, to say that the curve or intensity of Hungary or the countries that are allied with Hungary, then this chaotic situation, this chaos, in the development of an unblessed state demanding the abundance of these human lives, is not difficult to find the primary responsibility, and the consequence of what psychotic policy there is now, and there is no wonder at that. This responsibility and responsibility for these victims rest most with the United States of America. To add, they themselves have acknowledged this in countless ways. That's what I said about the first mission, by the way. If the number one responsible creates the problem, creates the Islamic State itself indirectly - and I'm not saying that - but Wesley Clark is now a retired NATO commander, who acknowledged that the Islamic State was essentially created by the United States itself, primarily with irresponsible policies and military operations - then the question is, what is our responsibility in this and whether we should take the same lion's share in paying the price as the United States itself. I don't think you have to. And I will join my fellow Member, Belling, in the sense that there are many forms of assistance. I will come back to this later, that, by the way, yes, it is our duty not only to help Christians in the Middle East or people of any other denomination, but then, in that sense, we should also help peoples in oppression, exploitation or persecution all over the world. But you can see the selection. When you - and don't be angry about it - speak hypocritically of the protection of Christendom, you forget Christians in the same oppression and persecution in many parts of the world. You never talk about what kind of military or other assistance we should offer in Nigeria, for example, to Christians persecuted by Boko Haram, and the rest, and so on. I'm saying this example because if we have to make decisions of this magnitude, then let's really be honest. If we look at the United States, whether in terms of the Arab Spring or in terms of Iraqi policy or in terms of Syria's policy, then let us ask the honest question of what we are doing here and what we are helping more. [[10.50]] Since we can help more if we send 200 soldiers there, if we send 400 soldiers or 2 thousand soldiers, or more by taking down the last 27-year-old, really the deepest level of servitude policy, once consistently and morally representing the truth in every front of diplomacy, we stand up for, for example, honest within an alliance, breaking a wand for the truth, and telling even the United States of America who thinks and owns all the power that we do not participate in this, and, where appropriate, setting an example for other federal Member States and other Central-Eastern European countries, or starting with the V4 that we do not participate in such a rampage? It is not a question of whether we must fight terrorism, of course, how we must; it is not a question of whether we must take action against the various terrorist organisations on our part, but whether we are doing something about creating such crisis zones of the world in the future, and in the future, for example, we will tolerate our allies without talking about creating the same crisis zones as Iraq and Syria or many other parts of the Middle East, or even certain counties and territories in Ukraine that are not so far from us. Because the responsible policy would be to do everything we can to ensure that there are no peoples, countries anywhere in the world that will be affected, for example, by NATO or any geopolitical strategy of the United States, the victims of their irresponsibleness. Because it was primarily oil that was the invasion of Iraq in 2003, and if we look at the birth of the Islamic State, then we don't have to go back any earlier, it's enough to take into account the invasion of Iraq by the Americans until 2003. And then we can go through years of what happened to the An-Nusra Front, the Al-Qaeda, how the Islamic State was formed and where they are now. But you know that. Not only in the Defence and Police Committee, but also in the National Security Committee, you and your services have reported on numerous occasions that these terrorist organisations cannot be eliminated from aircraft. They can make all Syria, all of Iraq, all of the Middle East, equal to the earth, and not only will these terrorist organizations cease to exist, but it will get worse because they will spray around the world and build an even bigger network. I want you to be honest with me once, and I want you to be clear that if the United States of America wanted to eliminate the Islamic State, you could do that without a problem. He wouldn't send in air strikes, he would send his army of land to the right extent and number, and he would clean up. We're seriously gonna pretend that we're gonna send 200 soldiers or any number of soldiers, and that's okay? So that means we're doing our part? No, we would do our part by sending a message on every front of diplomacy and making it clear that we are not so irresponsiblely involved in these insane policies and military conflicts. And once again, this is not our responsibility, and I am aware that it is not the responsibility of the Hungarian Government to see how the fate of the Islamic State has evolved in the Middle East and how the Iraqi people or the daily rhythm or standard of living of the Syrians are developing, but our allies have a responsibility, and our main ally has almost all the responsibility. However, we already have the extent to which we are going to let this happen or not, or make it clear that we do not have the capacity to do so. Many here have referred to our NATO obligations. Let's get this straight, read our NATO treaty and read any of our international treaties: there is no obligation for us to take part in any action militaryly in the Middle East. NATO doesn't require that for us. You know that! Let's not argue that because it doesn't require that. If NATO member states are attacked or NATO allies are involved in such a military conflict, then the situation is different, but that is not the case here. Because there is a global irresponsible policy, which is basically about exploitation and subjugation of peoples, we do not need to assist. It's very important that we get here once and for all. The big question is whether we are helping Hungary, let's say, to counter-terrorism or to protect its anti-terrorist security and defence, by sending more soldiers into this region. Obviously, this is not against the Hungarian Defence Forces. It is not that we consider the Hungarian Army or the Hungarian soldiers to be inadequate, we consider it very suitable, and otherwise we will support any proposals and any strategic issues concerning the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, whether technical or human resources, but irresponsible politics cannot be the victim of the Hungarian defence or any other Hungarian man. Because this question is actually about whether, in the future, in the coming years or decades, we have legitimized such world powers and policies that the United States has been pursuing for decades and decades. Previously, the Soviet Union did the same, now the United States of America. To do so, it would be good to get to the point that, consistently, it is the Hungarian nation, really in order to protect Hungarian interests, we say that so far and no longer. Because if we look honestly at the situation of the Middle East region or other military crisis zones in the world, we see that there is an irresponsible policy, there is a huge crisis, it is escalating, and the world is picking up its head when there really are millions of people to watch and measure suffering and misery. So what does the number one person in charge do? He doesn't acknowledge his mistake, let's say he apologizes to those involved at least, and tries to deal with the damage and remedy the problem on every front, but he continues to insist that he acted wisely and correctly, and to do so to legitimize this irresponsibleness, he asks his allies, if you will, instruct and spread the responsibility to pay the price together. That's what happened. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Honestly, do the United States of America need 200 Hungarian soldiers, 400 Hungarian soldiers or any other Hungarian soldiers? Of course he doesn't need it. However, he needs to spread responsibility on the diplomatic scene, on the political stage, and legitimize his own irresponsible policy and activity. That is why the European Union and NATO need different countries, Member States and even others from around the world. That's what we should say no to once and for all. Because once we do that, maybe others will, and maybe the United States will change its policy in the future. Because no one should have any illusions, if we were ever consistent in this, others would be consistent. It's just that it's very difficult to take on the role of the Resident, especially in relation to the United States of America. But when it comes to human lives, when we risk human lives, be it the Hungarian soldier or Hungarian citizen, because we also indirectly play with the lives of Hungarian citizens living here - I repeat, indirectly -; it is never known when the Hungarian flag and Hungary, for example, will be on the map of the Islamic State as a red poster. It is obvious that his number one enemies are not us, at least in the literal sense, but the United States of America and other great powers from Western Europe, but as we increase and increase our military presence, we are obviously increasing our visibility, and we know exactly how far the various training terror cells of the Islamic State extend. They are not far away from us if we think about Bosnia. When it comes to making such a decision of responsibility, I think that there should be much more wisdom on the part of the government, on the part of the factions and on the part of all the Members. My fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, is also right that either the Defence and Police Committee, or the National Security Committee, or the joint meeting could have been held calmly, and that we could have tried to establish reassuring answers or consensus on every detail, let us say. [[11.00]] Because indeed, in such a case, it would be right and wise not to discuss it. And this debate is not about whether we have to take action against terrorism or against the Islamic State. Of course I do. The question is what and how. Jobbik says that at diplomatic level, as I have already said, everything must be done to achieve this; this, in turn, would mean the opposite policy as you do. All humanitarian and other assistance must be given, provided to those living in this region, in terms of the country's ability to sacrifice, of course. But we must not send armed soldiers in the service of irresponsible American politics. That is what this question is about, and Jobbik, as it has and always has, will consistently say no. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-26	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of my speech, allow me to thank all Hungarian soldiers who are still serving far from their country and loved ones today in order to live in a better world, so that this planet can become a better world. Although there are very, very many questions about these missions, they are obviously doing everything they can to serve their country and to fulfill the efforts that may be imposed on them by an unconsidered government. Thank you specifically for the performance of today's item on the part of the 142 Honvéd who are working as a member of the Iraqi training contingent, and although the May Other, according to Politics, have nothing to do with it, yet I believe that they seek to serve their country according to their best faith and belief, and act accordingly. So the first sentences should be thanks and gratitude for the fact that some people stand up for a better world. However, it is clear that the thoughts of either the Secretary of State or the governing party, the lead speaker of Fidesz, cannot be overlooked. After all, many things have been raised in their speeches that are worth responding to. Professor Kósa expressed the term "humanity" in his speech. This is the first thing I would like to reflect on, because I find a person who speaks of humanity as an incredibly hypocritical and treacherous person who, if not expected by America in exchange for Putin friendship, is mentioned in the case of letting children be killed on another continent, cutting off hands, slaughtering masses every day. Why does the question of humanity not arise, say, in relation to the entire African continent, why not try to apply it elsewhere? Obviously, it would also arise that when a villager freezes to death in his own house in January this year, where is this humanity that is mentioned by Fidesz. So obviously there are a lot of questions that we need to take into account, but Fidesz better not mention that word. I was also very impressed by the remark that the lead speaker at Fidesz mentioned that this was not a party political issue so much that 70 percent of Parliament supported this in the case of the previous mission. Please, as I have already been referred to, this is the usual Fidesz-DK coalition. Just as Gyurcsány needs Orbán, this mutual cooperation was DK-s-fidesz cooperation, nothing else. You unanimously pushed this through the Hungarian Parliament by ignoring the opinion of the opposition factions, with a pact with DK. Nothing else has happened but that cooperation has been continued, which has led to the failure of accountability from Ferenc Gyurcsány's government to this day. After all, this policy, which you and DK are conducting together, has resulted in this failure to make a decision in 2015. Obviously, therefore, we may find it a little hypocritical to say that there is a great parliamentary consensus here. It always comes up, and this is the figure of speech Mr. Kósa Group Leader has used, that the United States has asked us to help create peace. These are very nice words, although we would like to see the text-like format of this, how you asked Hungary to do this nicely, and because it justified the need for us exactly. After all, this question goes well beyond Fidesz making a simple domestic political issue of this and washing its hands in front of the United States for various activities. Basically, it arises here in many cases that the XXI. As a problem of the century, how do we define the process that moves the roots of the establishment of the Islamic State, but it is very, very difficult not to look back for at least a hundred years, and not to look at the historical perspective of how this landscape, the people living there, has been a plaything of great powers in the past. How were these countries the victims of simple major pacts at the end of World War I, where they created the roots of the conflict that has affected world politics to this day, ignoring all regional and ethnic aspects? And obviously, the aspect of these powerful toys is not an issue here, either, that they can continue to be influenced by various interests and various economic aspects and world policy considerations. For this reason, it is amazing that in a problem created by the United States, Hungary's defence is requested. The May Other Politics is committed to Hungary's contribution to solving global problems. It is committed to helping all countries that need it in development policy. We are committed to helping any governing party to deal with the root causes of a problem wherever possible. However, the issues of the roots of the Islamic State did not arise there, but in the United States, and the possibilities of treatment there were provided. Obviously, it is no coincidence that now, when it is clearly apparent that a NATO summit is expected in the near future, and the NATO summit, which could order this to be discussed as a NATO mission, and in a completely different way, this debate could take place in a completely different mood, before such a meeting, so that the Hungarian Parliament could provide this solution. The Islamic State has made the murderous cult of ruthlessness, violence, barbarism, and desecration of another man an instrument of its own propaganda machine, and I think it has revealed the darkest side of humanity. Accordingly, it is clear that an important and noble goal to resolve this may be to contribute to the abolition of all this. At the same time, the question arises over and over again why, if there is consensus in this world, it is not a NATO mission. Why doesn't NATO order all this? Why is Hungary bringing it here now, when in the near future, in May, perhaps in June, there is a NATO summit, where it would be possible to discuss everything without further ado? These questions, which arise, fundamentally point to the Fidesz-KDNP policy of once again turning death and misery into an internal political tool and campaign propaganda, as they do all the time, and using it in addition to their deteriorating support for their internal policy goals, to draw this whole issue on migration and other processes. I believe that in all those who have ever seen it on footage, on the Internet, on YouTube, the shocking footage that the Islamic State has made, there may be consensus that it should be involved in resolving and abolishing this. But the extent to which this is done, the contribution to how we do it, the solution and the instrument system of this is what we have to discuss today in part. The May Other has supported all efforts to make the world a better place, but we believe that these Hungarian soldiers do not necessarily have a place there, and they do not have to be involved in dealing with the problem that the United States has created. If NATO accepts this mission as a mission, Possibly Other Politics will be ready to override its position and be ready to consider the aspects that result from international obligations and impose an international obligation on our country. We think that, obviously, in a world in which we live and what seems to be a more dangerous place, it is important that we can count on cooperation and fulfill our obligations. But as long as this is just the United States' own initiative, if there are some participants, as long as Viktor Orbán and his government want to use these instruments for internal political campaign purposes, obviously we cannot assist in supporting this mission under such conditions. [[11.10]] Accordingly, by asking for their understanding, I would ask the Hungarian Government to withdraw this proposal, to wait for the NATO summit, and in the light of the decision of the NATO summit, depending on whether it is necessary to bring it to Parliament, then to discuss this issue again due to the number of missions, and now to remove it from the agenda, and to try to contribute by other means to making the world a better and safer place, and not by flooding the already well-bleed and destroyed Hungarian Defence Force and sending it to places that seem totally unjustified. With this in mind, I call on the government to withdraw the proposal, to wait for the NATO summit, to consider its results and to provide the opportunity to negotiate afterwards. In this form, LMP will not be able to support the proposal submitted. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-04-28	Thank you, Congressman. The first independent Member to apply may now speak, so I give the floor to Mr Péter Kónya.
u2017-05-04-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, From 1994 onwards, after our accession to NATO, the mission activity carried out by the Hungarian Defence Forces in various parts of the world began. The first such request took place at the end of 1995 after the Dayton agreement, when Hungary was invited to participate in the resolution of the southern Slavic crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in February 1996 the Hungarian camp was established in Okučani, where hundreds of Hungarian soldiers served within the IFOR and SFOR for several years. After that, in many areas and countries of the world, Cyprus, Sinai, Sudan, Gornji Karabakh, Kuwait, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq, but I could list one or two other countries, our Hungarian soldiers performed their services. I think that we should thank all Hungarian citizens for the soldiers who have honoured and honoured these missions, and we should thank not only the soldiers, but also their families, who had to spare the family support for months and years, the man who otherwise served our country abroad. At the same time, in addition to thanks, it is clear that soldiers who served in foreign missions have returned home to Hungary with a number of military experience which the Hungarian Army may otherwise need, and we have had experienced soldiers who would probably not have had such opportunities in Hungary. At the same time, it should also be mentioned, and it is sad that many soldiers who had left the professional career or even resigned as contract soldiers who otherwise had such experience, because the government did not properly estimate these soldiers, did not see the need for the experience they had acquired, preserved and appreciated in such foreign missions. I could list a number of such examples now, but I will not do so in the absence of time. At the same time, in addition to its positive sides, a country such as Hungary, which lies in the middle of Europe, with the potential of a very small army with obsolete technology, I think that politics should also be careful about what missions our country is participating in. It is a very sensitive issue, by the way, geopolitically and strategically, Hungary lies in a place in the middle of Europe that has always been the target of great powers in the history of the world, and we therefore need to be very careful about it, and we need to be very clever in our tactics so that we can preserve Hungary's sovereignty, despite the fact that the Hungarian Defence Office cannot do so on its own. This is obviously why we need our allies, and we can ensure this through allied policy and through allied military support. It would be much more practical, however, if we had been able to achieve diplomatically and politically a status similar to that of Switzerland, but obviously after the wars of the past period and even after the end of the First World War, we did not have the opportunity, unfortunately, to do so. We could live much better and much more peacefully if, by the way, the sovereignty of Hungary could be guaranteed diplomatically. It is therefore a very delicate question of what missions Hungary is participating in - despite the fact that, obviously, although my fellow Member Mirkóczki has referred to this, the NATO Treaty itself does not directly oblige us to participate in such missions - but we obviously do not have only contractual and written obligations on our fellow allies at times. Nevertheless, I think that the Hungarian policy and the current Hungarian government are responsible for what kind of missionary activity Hungary is involved in. Two forms of mission activities are known: peace-building action and peace-keeping action. What I can say is that for my part, I cannot support participation in peace-building actions, Hungary is too small a country, and it does not have military potential to be able to nod on such actions. The question that Hungary, the Hungarian Defence Office, is suffering from a huge shortage of staff has also come to a crucial point on the previous agenda. Extraordinaryly, his duties have increased over the past period, so let's just think about the protection of the southern border section, but otherwise, participation in the various mission tasks and participation in existing mission tasks are also extremely burdensome. We are talking about about 3,000 soldiers who regularly take part in these missions in rotation, many people's families have already been destroyed and their private lives have been ruined as a result of continuing to serve abroad, and they are not with their families. I must fully agree with the words of Ádám Mirkóczki, who discussed precisely the responsibility of the current Hungarian government for how we otherwise participate in the various efforts of the great powers of the world, and how Hungary can assist in such a matter. It is neither a question nor a dispute for me that action must be taken against the Islamic State and terrorism, by the way. At the same time, my fellow Member, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, pointed precisely at the fact that my fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki, did not cause this conflict, and in such a case Hungary must consider what we are involved in and how we are involved in such an activity. At the same time, I believe that Hungary's symbolic role in the fight against the Islamic State and terrorism is inevitable. What is this symbolic role? This could be what my fellow MSZP Member mentioned, even Ádám Mirkóczki mentioned, humanitarian aid in which Hungary could otherwise participate. Because of sending our soldiers into this zone, I have a question for you, by the way, and I would like the Secretary of State to answer it openly. Is the purpose of the quota out there only to help the various countries fight against the Islamic State and terrorism, or is it otherwise hidden and hidden to protect the MOL wells next to the Erbil, or to ensure the region is able to operate safely at MOL wells? I would like you to answer that, because it doesn't matter, and Hungarian citizens need to know why we are sending Hungarian citizens' money and Hungarian soldiers into the same zone. Is there such an intention, by the way, or is there such a task for the soldiers outside? Because it doesn't matter if we find out, and I'm asking you to answer that, because we can make a decision accordingly. This is a question, I think, which Hungarian citizens rightly claim, because it is a Hungarian company, but it does not necessarily have to keep such companies safe or secure in any case, and there are different private companies, private armies tending to keep objects in these crisis zones or to ensure that they operate in a calm manner. [[11.20]] That is what I wanted to say; yes, and it is important, I think that with the engagement, the quota of 100-150 people with which Hungary is out there now, we were able to ensure the symbolic thing, and it is unlikely that Hungary would be the one to decide the fight against the Islamic State. Therefore, I think that I cannot support the expansion of the quota itself, not even because the Hungarian Defence Office is in a real shortage of numbers at the moment, and our resources should be used to fill the number of people, and then we should provide the Hungarian Defence Forces with the proper technology. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-05-04-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi.
u2017-05-04-31	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Secondly, we have the proposal to send Hungarian soldiers to a major conflict zone in the Middle East, at least in this cycle. I think that perhaps a few years ago we did not think so, and today we can safely say that the stability of the Middle East is in Hungary's national interest. This may sound strange from the mouth of a small Central European country, but in a sense it is even more justified and proven today than it was a year and a half ago when we first talked about a similar topic or something in this House. For a long time, the Middle East has been seen as a region that Hungary has nothing to do with, but at the same time the changes that have been made there in recent years, namely the war zone and the Islamic State, which has redefined the geopolitical map of the Middle East and has created a vast war and uncertain zone, a crisis area of the world that clearly risks the security of Europe and Hungary. It has already been mentioned here that this is also seen directly in Hungary, partly through the refugee wave and partly through the risk of terrorism. So we have a job to do in the Middle East, and we can't avoid that responsibility. I was pleased to hear Lajos Kósa talk about the legitimacy of international intervention from Hungary. This appears in the communication of the Hungarian government in a very often opposite context. Yeah, it's legit. Of course, this is a complicated matter, and many have already pointed out that, indeed, when any force - and Hungary is really difficult to call a military force, but let us say, an international coalition, whether multi- or one-sided - intervenes in any way, it can have many consequences. Obviously, the complex situation in the Middle East is this long, if you like, can be interpreted as a continuation of decades of interventions, but I find it difficult to interpret the rightful and LMP manifestations that are so clearly linked to one responsible. Simply maintaining the security of the world is a very complicated and complex process, and it is difficult to always look ahead in a 5-10-year perspective. Above all, it is obvious that we have a job to do there and that this is a legitimate effort. A few words on the issue of refugees have already been exchanged here by the fellow Members. Once again, I was pleased to hear from Lajos Kósa the expression human rights, freedoms, humanity. I would very much like a little consistency on the part of Fidesz to show up on these issues. If we are talking about humanity, human rights, freedoms, people whose rights, just as they are united, are entitled to where they live, even where they are subjected to war attacks, even when they are on their way to refuge. They are always entitled to human rights, not just when we talk about them thousands of miles from us. The Joint has recently voted in favour of this intervention requiring a two-thirds majority, and we will consider this at the moment in this case as well. We think, again returning to some previous solo, that there is no point in arguing or discussing whether Hungary's position would allow us to defend ourselves in the world on our own. We can't defend ourselves in the world. Hungary is an ally system, if you like, forced, and this system of allies has never been as peaceful and secure in our history as it has been these days, so it is obviously very important for us that Hungary participates in this alliance, which in this case means about 60 countries, by its own strength. It is also clear that the participation of the Hungarian mission in the international contingent in Iraq has been successful so far, although this House has not received a large number of briefings on this issue, apart from those who may have been able to visit it. So I think this is where the government has a job, especially when the opposition is waiting for some kind of consent to support this proposal now. It is also dangerous in the vulnerability of the Islamic State, in a sense more dangerous than in its strength, so the existence of international cooperation in this matter is justified even if it appears that this international coalition is able to produce a slow but some kind of result. International assistance will also be needed for a long time in the liberated areas, and this cannot be replaced only by money, although it is obviously a very expensive thing, completely destroyed, destroyed human lives, destroyed institutions, infrastructure, ruined areas, and it is a decade-old task, and if we are there at this stage, during the period of peace-building in this region, then this means a longer-term commitment from Hungary and the international community, and we also need to know that. At the same time, there are a few questions. This proposal, which is presented to us here, I must say, is weak, slendrian, a little lousy proposal. Compared to what an important issue is that the government needs the support of the opposition here, that it is about sending Hungarian soldiers abroad, this few-page thing is not worthy of this decision. So I would like to ask you a few questions, and I think that those opposition representatives who, where appropriate, are expected to support this proposal need to know a lot more about this mission than you have put before us at this very moment in this small proposal. On the one hand, we would like to receive accurate, detailed and thorough information on what activities have been carried out by the mission so far, whether they were in harmony with what the government authorised them to do or, where appropriate, to carry out other tasks. They mentioned that they could perform tasks here that could be considered a question of trust, and we would also like to be informed in detail about this, including those who cannot attend the closed meeting of the Defence Committee. What exactly does military assistance mean, which has already been mentioned by Tamás Harangozó? Does the government wish to send combat troops to Iraq in the future? What exactly would the task of the new mission cover? We need to know that exactly, or what do we decide? What is the reason why the government is increasing the team quota? At the moment, the government has the authority to send 150 soldiers from the Hungarian Parliament, compared to this, 142 people are out, so the government cannot fill the current quota. I think that the comments made by Péter Kónya, that he is constantly in the chain of several thousand Hungarian soldiers abroad, should be considered very carefully. It is clear that the Hungarian military can carry out a variety of activities in foreign missions, but the question is whether Hungary has enough prepared soldiers to do so, that we can expand this quota, and that it is not really about gutting a few hundred people and families who are subject to Hungary's international commitments. I would very much like to know that. [[11.30]] So how many soldiers in Hungary can participate in an international mission in any function, and can the Hungarian Defence Office provide their security, mental and physical harmony? And why do we want to increase the number of 200 people on this mission? They didn't tell us anything about that at all. I would also like to know whether the intention to increase the quota is in proportion to what the neighbouring Central European countries are providing in this international mission, and I would like to know the exact figures on how many soldiers Visegrád countries are participating in and what they are preparing for in the coming years. You are in close contact with the ministries of these countries, so you obviously have accurate knowledge of this. It is also very important to know this because, at the moment, the Hungarian government is in conflict with the US administration on several fronts, and when you present this proposal to us a long time before the deadline for the previous mission, there is a suspicion that they might want to cover other conflicted, politically conflicted areas towards the US government. If this is the intention, please comment on this, please, and I also believe that, of course, such an effort by the government cannot succeed, because, as we do here in the Hungarian Parliament, we do not link certain fundamentally different political issues, let us say, the cause of civil society organisations and the deployment of the Hungarian Defense in foreign missions, so the US government does not do this either, so it is clearly not possible to expect the success of this kind of cover operation. I would like to know, however, exactly what political intentions you have in relation to this capacity expansion and the expansion of tasks. Until these questions have been answered, it is difficult to imagine that, by the way, the principled support that the government can expect from us in this matter will now be given to the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent. Agnes Kunhalmi applauds.]]
u2017-05-04-32	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. In this context, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2017-05-04-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond very briefly to the words of my fellow Member, Zsuzsa Szelényi, who, in my opinion, either did not listen correctly or misunderstood the words that we said. When, whether my fellow Member Sallai or I were pushing for the primary role and responsibility of the United States of America in terms of the formation of the Islamic State, I told you exactly what I am basing this statement on. I said that this was acknowledged by the United States itself, of course, in an informal form, specifically by Wesley Clark, the European commander-in-chief of NATO, who declared to CNN that, yes, the United States of America, Washington and one or two of his allies had created the Islamic State, specifically in order to destroy Lebanon's Hezbollah. This irresponsible policy, when the CIA traines you, creates other terrorist organizations from other terrorists, doesn't matter for what purpose, but then loses control, and the ghost goes out of the bottle. And now the United States of America is asking for countries and partners who have absolutely nothing to do with this and who have been secreted from this maneuver all along. It is clear to everyone, and no one is arguing with you, you said that Hungary has an elemental interest in peace in the Middle East, I would expand this, not only in Hungary's elemental interest, but I think that all the peoples and nations of the world that desire peace, have an elemental interest in order in the Middle East, here the question is what serves the order, whether we are sending new soldiers, or we are starting to take responsibility for politics, and we are starting to pursue responsible diplomacy, and, where appropriate, we are going to argue with our allies, and we are saying that so far and no longer, and that we are not participating in this kind of amok run. That's what I think my colleague Sallai was talking about, and that's what we were talking about. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa.
u2017-05-04-35	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The perception that our fellow Member, Mr Benedek, expressed before us is unacceptable, because, of course, we see that there is a thousand and one conflicts in the world, and we also see that people are threatened with violence and persecution in many areas of the world. At the same time, if it is a specific issue, then on the basis that we are not simultaneously bringing a proposal to Parliament that outlines possible Hungarian participation in all conflict areas of the world, but that is a concrete one, this cannot be rejected on this basis, because it means that every crisis management that exists is unacceptable if it does not seek the answer to all the problems of the world at the same time. That's nonsense! This may be an example of an LMP-type approach, but we also see numerous counter-examples of this in the LMP itself, when, as a matter of fact, it focuses on a problem and does not want to solve all of the world's problems at the same time, but rather a specific question. On the other hand, I would like to say that Fidesz is fully consistent in the perception and enforcement of human rights, only we can distinguish between the fact that someone really is a refugee, is afraid for his life, comes to Europe from persecution, or simply says that he wants a better life. Because the status of the two people is not entirely the same, and although everyone is entitled to the right to human dignity or the right to freedom, of course, but in the international context, we do rule that it is not generally the right of people to enter, reside and reside in countries that are foreign countries to them to any extent or quantity. This is completely contrary to international law and understanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-36	Thank you. We now return to the normal time frame, and I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2017-05-04-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We certainly agree that missions are extremely important for a number of reasons: on the one hand, Hungarian soldiers obviously contribute to the creation of peace, the management of crises and the maintenance of peace, obviously this is also a Hungarian national interest, in this globalised world there are a number of situations where unfortunately military means are needed. And the other positive thing about the mission is that it is incredibly developing the knowledge that our soldiers serving outside can use in the same way in the Hungarian Defence System, and the so-called total population of the Hungarian Defence Forces can use this knowledge, and it really improves interoperability, and it can actually develop close cooperation with the military staff of other nations. This is, therefore, what I think is positive, which is why the decisions on missions or extensions that have been made before this House since 2014 have been voted in favour of them all - except one - and this is the coalition mission currently running in Iraq. Because, as the Secretary of State has asked us to take a decision with a sense of responsibility, so I would ask that you present such a proposal with a sense of responsibility - which also applies to the previous vote on the same mission - and develop Hungary's armed forces and law enforcement bodies with the same sense of responsibility. It is also not a matter of course that terrorism must be combated, obviously there are many ways to do so, and, in this way, military engagement is, of course, one but not a single form, so here I would refer back to the fact that the development of the domestic security system and possibilities is necessary in any way. Nor does anyone dispute that the terrorist organization Islamic State must be stepped up and combated. Assistance is very important, but not only military but, as my fellow Members have mentioned before me, both humanitarian and development and economic assistance are extremely important. Overall, I think that it would not be a question of whether Hungary should play a military role in resolving this situation and in creating and guaranteeing security; here is the question of how it will do so. [[11.40]] Even when the previous proposal was adopted in 2015, when you adopted the proposal, it was already considered that the 150-person framework was much more involved than any other member of the coalition. So if we look at the size of both the United States and the other participating countries' forces in this mission, we can see that Hungary has already taken on this issue several times with 150 people. I would also like to point out that this is a coalition mission, so it does not fall within the scope of the EU, NATO or the UN. What was particularly interesting was the last time, and I felt that from what Mr Lajos Kósa said that the United States had asked for this. That was said the other day. This proved to be not true, in fact. The way you have tried to justify this - without giving any details about it, but I think it can be public knowledge in professional and political circles - is that it can be a request for more than one step. So it is obvious that the Hungarian Government has offered to do this on the last occasion, and I am quite certain that this could have happened on this occasion. I would like to draw attention to the strange fact that, while the Parliament made a quick decision on this mission following a ban scandal, on the basis of the government's presentation, there have also been a number of events that have once again become a cause for concern for the government's perception of the United States. Thus, it is far more apparent that there may be a kind of compensation than the responsible consideration of the engagement itself or the increase in this framework and the expansion of tasks. I would also like to maintain the question of what exactly military assistance means here. My question is, what was the reason for the 50th raise in the first place? On this basis, which is included in the proposal, nothing seems to justify it. I would continue to hold on to the question of who asked for this raise exactly. I think we know the answer, but I would expect you to answer it; and what exactly is the task, and whether it is possible to expect that, in addition to those listed in the proposal for a resolution, it will turn out that there are more tasks involved, because it has clearly been published in the press as well. So I think we can say here, and several people have pointed out that the Hungarian soldiers in Iraq do perform wider tasks than prior information. At this point, allow me to thank the soldiers serving outside for their work and dedication, as well as their families, as well as all our soldiers, defence workers, who perform similar tasks in many parts of the world, and, of course, also the domestic staff, as they serve at home at the same time. Returning to the proposal, I find it very strange that, although the previous mandate was given by the end of 2017, what is the reason for this extraordinary haste on the part of the government now? Why is it so important to increase this engagement by 50 people now? It has been said here, and I absolutely agree with this that there will be a NATO summit at the end of May, so it could also be a motivation for the government to come there with such an increased engagement and such an eloquent thing, but I think that there may still be questions about why this proposal will not be discussed from autumn; at all, the continuation of the mission, let alone the increase that - I stress once again - is unjustified in all aspects. In fact, let them see that, on the last time, and this is also the case, the biggest problem, and I think that many of us do not support such proposals, or this in particular, or the previous one, because the biggest problem is that the government simply does not reveal its true intentions, we do not get the right answer to the questions. This proposal was discussed in 2015 during an open meeting of the Committee. I suspect that's how it's gonna be right now. We have received no answers to any substantive professional questions, nor have we come any closer to what the soldiers will actually do. So I think that at the very least it would be expected that this would change now, and that would be resolved differently, and that, yes, appropriate information should be given to the committees. However, I have no illusions as to whether this will happen. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in terms of previous missions - and although I was not here in Parliament, many of you are, and you will certainly remember - there were very close discussions between the opposition and the government on what tasks could be undertaken; what are not; how did the request come; don't give me a god when it was asked, then all details could be clarified in the form of joint discussions with the caller. I don't know why it was necessary to interrupt this practice, by the way. What would greatly increase security would also be for the government to make decisions and pursue policies that build trust and not destroy trust. Unfortunately, we have to say that, both in the European Union and in NATO, there has been a strong lack of trust in Hungary, and let us admit that there is a basis for this, and it is somewhat justified, but it is not a sustainable state, so it is precisely the opposite that we should be fighting for. The involvement of soldiers and Hungarian soldiers in supporting foreign policy objectives would be fundamentally acceptable. There have been many times in history. Let us say that this would be difficult now, because the government's foreign policy objectives are very difficult to unravel, but it is certainly not to compensate for the government's blunders, or to strengthen and further increase these engagements. In any case, there is an increased risk of engagement. I've seen an irresponsible attitude in this, too, the last time, and I don't see anything else, at least so far. After all, not only do we need to talk about the conditions under which soldiers serve there, but we need to talk about not only getting the proper equipment there, but also about the conditions at home. Nor is it fair that, while, by the way, quite rightly for the mission, I understand that they may have received the necessary equipment, otherwise everything in the country will rot. The devices are running out, they're leaming, they don't have the right conditions for home service. Due to the increased risk, it is essential to develop and prepare law enforcement bodies as well as the Hungarian Defence Forces. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what kind of risk assessments have been carried out - they have not been able to present any risk analysis before - and what measures are being taken to eliminate the increased risk by these competent bodies. For now, unfortunately, I have to say that, in addition to being very depreciated, in addition to the defence, the police, and the national security services are not in a very good state, we also see that with a number of laws the government itself is opening the way, by the way, to organised criminal groups, so that they can enter both the Schengen area and Hungary. So, on the one hand, there are loopholes that should be closed immediately, because even terrorists can take advantage of these legal loopholes and constructions that the government did exactly. In addition, police, as well as national defence and national security services, should, of course, be provided with sufficient resources to prepare and guarantee the increased risk, as well as the appropriate means to guarantee the conditions for operation. So that would be the least I could do. I honestly don't see these. We have not seen this last time, and I think that guaranteeing the safety of the Hungarian people is as important as how soldiers can perform their service out there in Iraq. [[11.50]] So I think that this proposal that lies before us cannot be supported; what you are doing is an exaggeration. The timing and the way it worked is very strange. On the last occasion, and from what we have seen so far, I think that it does not give the right information to support such a proposal, and it can be said that the government is actually taking the necessary measures to expand and maintain such a mission, precisely to guarantee the safety of the Hungarian people. So for my part, I will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you.
u2017-05-04-38	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary.
u2017-05-04-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, thank you very much for your support speeches, either from pro-government or from opposition or from independent benches. I also thank you for the fact that my fellow Members considered it important to thank the Hungarian soldiers for their sacrifice here, both in Hungary and in the mission. Many questions were raised, and there was much talk of responsibility, including the responsibilities of Members, which I referred to at the end of my speech. Allow me to share with you, in particular, not as Secretary of State for Defence, but as a Member, some thoughts that we may all be able to help you make the right and responsible decision. I think that it is not necessary for a decision to be made by the fact that what has happened, what has not happened, how has not happened, how has not happened two years ago, when the previous decision has been made by this House. To make this decision before us, I think we do not need that. Just as there is no need for certain processes in the world that we, whose responsibility has led, whose responsibility is Arab Spring. Whose responsibility or responsibility it is not that there is an armed conflict in Iraq and Syria today. I think that when we make this decision, which lies in front of us, that is not what we need to argue about in the first place. [[Towards the benches of Jobbik.]] Let me correct the Member with due respect, this is not a NATO mission, so the mandate of NATO is not necessary here. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] To be precise, at the request of Iraq, the UNSC has taken a decisive position, in line with UNSCR 2249/2015. Resolution No.2 on the basis of which the United States-led coalition is fighting against the Islamic State in Iraq, and some 60 countries are members of this coalition. That is why this proposal for a resolution lies before this House. If this were a NATO, UN or European Union-led mission, this would not be necessary. I think that Mr Sallai's argument and reasoning - unfortunately he is no longer here - is that we are waiting for him. [[János Halász intervenes.]] And the NATO summit, and then maybe NATO will make a decision there, and this will be a NATO mission, just me, Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, don't have to take responsibility, someone else will take responsibility. NATO will decide that, and then it will be okay to have 200, 150, any number of Hungarian soldiers on the same mission, because then we do not have to come to the House. If this was a NATO mission, it would be enough for the government's authority. I think it's cowardice. We understand that the Member is out of the mood for membership, but as long as his sworn representative is a member of the Hungarian Parliament, he must think responsibly and make a responsible decision. And why now, the congresswoman asks. That is because the mission that expires on 31 December will either be extended, or, if the decision is not, it will cease. This cannot be decided at the last minute and at the last minute we start planning to increase the number of missions by 50 or to leave this mission. So it's not an act of self-preservation. More than 60 countries are members of this coalition, and Hungary is also providing humanitarian aid, not in one country, in several countries. We are also participating in three missions in Africa, three European Union missions in the Central African Republic, Mali and Somalia. I think that the academic debate does not lead to a good decision as to the difference between peacekeeping and peace-building. I think that we should not look for the underlying intentions, but if we read the proposal, then we can clearly see what we are asking for authorisation to do. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's not true!]] , what does military assistance and counseling mean; training and counseling, it's that simple. You don't have to look for the underlying intentions, you have to read what's in the proposal. Many issues were also raised that could have been discussed in the five-party negotiations, which were now truly five-party and were attended by all parties. I am sorry that the representatives of the political groups did not ask these questions at this five-party meeting, but I believe that there is still enough time to answer the questions that arise in my fellow Members and in the political groups. So I think that we do not need these thoughts to make the right decision. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Ask dangerous!]] What we need to make the right decision, however, is to think about what is in Hungary's interest. It is in Hungary's interest to be on the front line with regard to migration, immigration, peace in the countries from which immigrants start. Peace be made so that the people who live there can live there and stay there, and those who have come can go back to their homeland, because I think that everyone wants to live primarily in their homeland. So it is in Hungary's interest to have peace there, and we must do our part to create this. Therefore, these tasks and therefore the request for 200 more to serve for another two years, because we do not really think that someone else will make peace there, and we look at it from a distance. It is in our interest that peace be established there, and therefore we must do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-04-40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. It follows from the 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision, public education. General debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/15377. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda, who tells his expozee about the pulpit. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Law, which constitutes the lion's share of the two related drafts, serves to regulate the largest and most extensive cultural institutions in our country. [[12.00]] It is therefore important that this law follows continuous modernisation, reflecting the changing expectations and professional priorities of cultural policy. With this intention, after several years of professional preparation, we would like to turn the so-called cultural law into a new approach with this amendment. The legislation in force does not give sufficient emphasis to the fact that access to cultural goods and community culture have a positive impact on quality of life. In order to make this opportunity available to all, to experience and experience the human-formative power of culture, it is necessary to define in the law a clear, understandable and task-making measure, a regulation that makes clear the obligation of the institutional system to engage in society. This needs to be met by the introduction of the concept of basic cultural care, which defines the tasks for all three fields - in the fields of museums, libraries and public education. Achieving the overall objectives can only be envisaged through the creation of an appropriate set of instruments. This requires the current amendment of the legislation. Since most of the legislation on museums and libraries has been modernised over the past period, the focus of the amendment is to renew the service of public education. The current legislation on public education has become obsolete and has not followed changes in social needs. Since the possibility of public education should be guaranteed today in all the municipalities of Hungary, as in the case of library provision, renewable regulations can affect the quality of life of all Hungarian citizens. The most important conceptual amendment of the cultural law is the drafting of a legislative amendment to the aim of extending the basic cultural supply. This appears in the preamble and in the chapters of all fields of expertise. The Honourable Parliament has already been informed about the professional programme of basic cultural care at the annual ministerial and State Secretary's hearings before the Cultural Committee. The current legislation on public education is therefore very important that, since time has passed, it has become obsolete and has not followed significant changes in social needs. Today, in the settlements of Hungary, we would like to offer every citizen the opportunity to improve the quality of life through cultural tools. In our endeavour to extend the basic cultural supply, we open up the following options outside the preamble in the law. The amendment emphasises that public collections and public education institutions have a key objective and at the same time a public mission to contribute to improving quality of life and ensuring social well-being. This principle should also be highlighted in their services, which can be achieved by extending the basic cultural supply. In addition, in addition to the important theoretical basis, the law clarifies the regulation of the museum and library areas on several points. It defines basic public education services in line with the needs of the age and introduces a differentiated system of institutions in this field. The social changes in recent decades, the trends in the transformation of the institutional system and the need to extend the basic cultural supply together justify the renewal of the legal environment of community culture. Finally, the regulation also covers the definition of state tasks related to traditionalism and the care of folklore. This will remedy the regulatory deficit that has existed so far with regard to public tasks related to folk tradition and traditionalism, and this has caused problems in the field of folk art in the activities of professional organisations so far. With the adoption of the proposed amendment, the following provisions are included in the legislation at the statutory level. I will therefore now take into account the amendments to the legislation above the regulation level in different areas. First, the extension of basic cultural care in more detail. The basic tasks of the institutions covered by the law therefore include the extension of the basic cultural supply as a new element. The amended legislation emphasises that cultural heritage is an intellectual property, library provision, cultural heritage conservation and cultural cultural institutions are a system for ensuring access to cultural property. This uniquely rich institutional system is a resource that seeks to give all Hungarians access to the values needed to increase society, thus strengthening Hungarian identity, developing the welfare, social development and economic performance effects of culture. The introduction of an extension of the basic cultural provision aims at better performing existing public tasks among the institutions and organisations covered by the cultural law. The statutory priority order for the extension of the basic cultural supply and the annual amount of support for implementation under the criteria are set out in the relevant central budget law. I note that the proposal has no direct budgetary impact. The second major area is the changes to the museum institutions. State tasks provided by county-wide urban museums will be clarified. The county-wide urban museum is obliged to carry out on-the-spot visits in the event of a serious threat to the protection of the stock or safety of cultural goods. From now on, the powers of the Minister to deliver opinions on the articles of association and the budget will cease in order to reduce administrative burdens, thereby facilitating the exercise of the institutional governance rights of the municipalities. This was strongly requested in the preparatory phase by the County City Association. In order to emphasise the importance of a culture of nationality, the amendment requires that nationality culture is presented with emphasis in the exhibition of the national minority base institution and in its museum pedagogical programmes. For the purpose of quality management, partly in the light of the comments of professional organisations, and partly in the light of the findings of the investigations carried out by the State Audit Office, the documents underlying the professional work will be expanded with a strategic plan, a conservation plan and a collection recovery and revision plan. These are therefore added to the documents. The Prime Minister's Office's request was in the course of the negotiations under Article 38/C of the Cultural Act. the amendment of §8 of the Act. The point of this amendment is that the Minister for Culture can only appoint a trustee of cultural assets protected under the law, and cultural goods declared protected in the course of official proceedings are removed from this regulatory sphere. The amendment creates consistency with the legislation on the conservation of heritage, according to which measures relating to cultural goods declared protected fall within the functions of the authority of cultural goods, i.e. the minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. The third area is the scope of the library amendments. The tasks of the library institute in the organization of the National Széchényi Library will be complemented by the coordination of the quality management activities of the library, the organisation of training courses, and the professional preparation of the donation of the certified library title and the quality prize of the library. The name of the county library is changed to a county-wide urban library. This creates coherence with the name of the county-wide urban museums in the law and stresses that the function of this type of library includes both urban library tasks and county-wide tasks. [[12.10]] Some of the library professional organisations indicated during the social consultation that the change of the name changes the priorities for the provision of tasks. According to the author, the amendment of the name does not change the current tasks and therefore the tasks of the county as a whole are not substantially altered. State tasks of county-wide urban libraries will be clarified. The number of information workshops related to the implementation of library services increases from one to two times a year. The powers of the Minister to deliver opinions on the articles of association, the organisational and operational regulations and the budget will be abolished in order to reduce administrative burdens, thus facilitating the correct and more effective exercise of the institutional governance rights of the municipalities. Libraries of armed and police bodies play a significant role in the performance of basic public library tasks, but can only provide one of the basic conditions of public libraries, accessibility and usability, for security reasons. For the purposes of public library classification, the proposal allows libraries of armed and police bodies to provide access through remote use. The cultural law does not currently exclude that the mandatory task of providing a public library is performed by the State or the municipality through a non-profit company. In reviewing the list of public libraries, we are currently seeing a number of examples of this organisational form. In order to establish a transparent legal situation, like territorial museums, the proposal clearly sets out this possibility. The fourth subject is the scope of the changes to public education. Several elements of the cultural law have stood the test of the past almost two decades, and in some respects it is still considered to be forward-looking. Therefore, the basic principle of regulation is to maintain the professional principles that make Hungarian community culture unique at European level, but in the regulation of the field, the standards allowing effective reflection on the changing social and economic environment should be highlighted, thereby achieving the social policy objectives of the sectoral policy. The amendment defines state tasks related to traditionalism and the maintenance of folklore. In the law, we define the range of data kept in the official register on the certification of folk art and folk art works, the donation of certification titles, and the regulation on their management. We regulate the scope of basic public education services and the institutional and organisational system providing basic public education services. The proposal also sets out the different types of tasks - types of institutions - and the corresponding minimum professional requirements, also laying down rules on the operation of the public and community scene, as well as the forms of the Community scene. An important element of the amendment is that the municipality or other organisation maintaining the Community scene is obliged to employ a specialist with a secondary education degree in the performance of the task in the future. The proposal clarifies the rules on the public education agreement and specifies which tasks the organisation which enters into a public education agreement is obliged to perform under the cultural law of the municipal government. The name of public education councils is also changed. The new name will be the round table for public education. The proposal empowers the government to designate in a regulation an organisation that performs State duties in the field of traditionalism, sets out detailed rules for the performance of the task and regulates the provisions on folk art and folk art works. According to the presentation, the Minister is authorised to regulate in a regulation the professional, personal and infrastructure requirements of basic public education services, public education institutions and community scenes, as well as the priorities and criteria for the extension of the basic cultural supply. Dear House, With regard to two legislative proposals relating to the cultural law, allow for a reflection. LXXVIII of the year on certain arrangements for renting and disposing of apartments and premises. There is only one text point in the amendment of the Act. I don't think that further detail is necessary. The third law concerned is LXVI of 1995 on authentic instruments, public archives and the protection of private archives. amendment of the law. In the amendment of this Act, we would like the amendment of Article XXI. To adapt the text to the requirements of the century. Here the detailed rules of electronic administration are clarified, we include the possibility of authentic electronic copies in the possibilities of destruction and destruction of archives. As a condition for the destruction procedure, we define the authentic electronic copy and we also lay down the rules for electronic storage. Thus, in addition to the paper-based document preservation, the archives of the authentic electronic copy are also subject to the law, as is the case today. Dear Parliament, I hope that a brief summary of the changes to the cultural law and related laws has convinced you that we are proposing truly forward-looking changes to the modern, high-quality functioning of the cultural institution system. I ask you with respect to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to János Halász, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-04-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The proposal before us is a realistic and proportionate proposal. We have been talking for a long time about the need to amend the law, the need to make a more breathable amendment, and now we have this proposal before us. I say that it is realistic because it follows the changes that have taken place in recent years, and it follows well what we have to respond to at the legal level. I say that it is proportionate, because, of course, it also concerns other areas, other than community culture, as Mr Secretary of State has very well demonstrated, and there have been some steps, some steps that are needed. In relation to these, I would like to express some of the views of our group, and on what basis and with what attitude we support these amendments, with what thoughts we support them. Firstly, one of the basic elements is the extension of the basic cultural supply. We know that the focus of the Secretary of State's work has recently been to strengthen the basic cultural supply. We welcome and very much welcome the fact that this concept is now included as a new element in the law, not only in the predominantly community cultural area, but in all areas that it can touch. I have to add, this is not just a simple legislative follow-up, or it is not just a matter of stressing why this is important, but we can look at the budgetary laws of the previous years or the one that has been tabled now, because the budget has always followed this kind of approach. In recent years, we have been able to and have been able to help extend the basic cultural supply by shifting and raising cultural normative emphasis. We welcome this, and also in the future, now also taking it to the legal level, obviously it must continue. [[12.20]] The amendment is less breathable in the field of museum institutions. Obviously, this is also because in previous years, in the last five or six years, there have been the biggest legislative changes, and there have been changes, developments in the Hungarian museum world that have shown that this was necessary, justified by the number of visitors, justified by the way the other institutions and educational institutions are now cooperating, as this sector is developing in a professional sense. But there really are some elements that we should amend now. Basically, the structure remains exactly what it was, but the administrative changes that the Association of City Rights has asked for are very important when we remove the administrative burden of ministerial opinion on the Constitution or on the budget from the shoulders of the maintainers and municipalities. At the same time, it is very important that the type of cooperation between the wallet and the maintainer remains with regard to the choice of driver, which is very important. We must not forget - and this is true of libraries, urban libraries, urban libraries, but I will talk about this later, and here also at museums - that the state will make a significant contribution to the promotion of museums. There are situations in which the state grants more support than the maintenance municipality. This is an important thing, we need to see this, and this is how we need to build a partnership with the municipalities. The fact that we have this administrative reduction right now is correct. The only reason I'm bringing up leadership is that it's another cabbage, another story. It is also an important professional step that the documents on which the professional work is based are now expanded with the collection or conservation plan. These will be technical regulations that, I believe, will also help to ensure uniform national functioning. We also welcome and support this. In the library area, it may be a little more important to amend the law, or it is more breathy or more elements that have been included in the law amendment, but this is also the result of the necessity in my opinion, and we support all of the elements. It is very important that the tasks of the library will be more coherent, this institution operates within the National Széchényi Library, and the qualified library and the library quality award is a very important professional award in this area. And the thorough preparation of what will be going on here, I think, is a very right move, obviously with the attention of the maintenance government and of the government, the State Secretary, but it is also natural in the maintenance relationship. In the area of libraries, the introduction or incorporation of a nonprofit organization into the law is, in fact, the lifelike nature that I referred to follows the practice that is present in the world of the library. There are more than 2,000 public libraries in Hungary, and we can see them on the public library registry, as we have heard, as well as non-profit organizations, but this has not been included in the law. So this is also a good, important step, because precisely in the settlement where they perform library tasks in this form, this is particularly important. The really important change in my opinion is the introduction of the name of the county-wide urban library in the library area. So far, it's been a county library called libraries, but the counties aren't the maintenance of libraries. It's very right to change the name, but that's not enough. It is not enough to change the name, to change the approach and to shape it. I know that some people think that changing this name will change the priorities for the provision of tasks. Well, that's exactly what our faction wants. We would like a very clear county supply system to work, a very high value for the library world, and we would like the institutions that do this as a city library, by the way, to use a county task system for libraries maintained by county-righted cities. It is very important that this be the case, and not with a view to the local communities of the local settlements, which was created in the 1950s and 1960s. Libraries remain the same, colleagues are the same prepared, competent colleagues, but processes that greatly support basic cultural care are one of the pillars of the basic cultural supply of the library county work, which is now provided by our urban libraries, our county-wide libraries; so we welcome the change of name and we also consider the change of approach very important. With this attitude, we can support the amendment of the law. It is very good to see that this is precisely the approach that the government has put forward. The truly breathtaking change in the field of community culture can be seen here in the law. This is not a small step, because so far, institutions in the field of public education have not been so precisely defined in the so-called cultural law. Now, with the amendment of the law, there's a very thorough description of the organization. In fact, here we are describing a network of institutions providing basic public education services, when we list and define several types of institutions. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that this, of course, has the potential to raise the question of whether the system will be flexible or not. What if in a few years, because this area is changing, new types of institutions are created that are not yet included in the law? It will be important to pay attention to this in the coming years, and obviously to follow these changes if these changes occur in the profession, and we know that this is such a profession. But it seems to me that this structural-organizational description is well thought out, this definition, given by the law to the possible types of institutions. We therefore support it in this form, but it is possible that some of the elements of our group will be clarified and we hope that our proposals will be adopted by the government as well. There is also a question about the name of the councils of public education and the round table of public education. We welcome the fact that public education councils will then be called a round table, but we see that, in addition to a very small amendment, the law changes only one name, even though the change of attitude is important here too, I refer back to the current library thought process. Right now, the law, I see, doesn't really open up matters of public education councils. It's okay now, but I see that in recent years, where it worked well, it actually worked as a round table rather than as advice, and it would be much better if this approach were established. So we have to follow this path. With these comments and these professional considerations, our group will support the proposal, and the next day we will find out what amendments we are still making, but they are so minimal, because the whole approach of the law, I believe, is real, it was necessary, and I hope that Parliament will also vote for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-04-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There are two ways to ruin a bill: if the text is poor and does not reach its desired goal, and if the intention is wrong. Unfortunately, the proposal before us combines both problems. In the beginning there is a problem with intent, but the poor wording unfortunately makes this situation even worse. For the past seven years, Fidesz has been acting, unfortunately, in the field of culture as well as a baby ball. I also graduated from political science, so I'm always very surprised to see a government claiming to be a right-wing government, a government following a right-wing ideology, starting to say that the state is omnipotent, central control is more efficient and always better than anything else. This happens, of course, to parties that do not have their own stable values. Since 2010, Fidesz has created the right to have two aspects: the greater the benefits and the stronger the central control. They want to build the country as Viktor Orbán did with his own party, there is a great pyramid on top of which Pharaoh sits. This has led to disaster in education and culture too, unfortunately. Today, Hungarian schools perform worse than ever since the change of regime, thanks to some dedicated teachers and high tolerance thresholds for students, the whole system does not collapse. [[12.30]] For years, in culture, only those who are fidesz receive money and real support. This government has no regard for who creates quality, who works at a high level, only the footmen, only the party, only the ideologically committed people have the support of the government. Unfortunately, the bill before us is not out of line. Since the '80s, the people who run the cultural houses and other cultural institutions have been running it. Unfortunately, this proposal brings back the state-led and paid cultural policy of the Kádár system. That's what he does, and he wants it anyway, and I'm always surprised at him, the Fidesz who claims to be an anti-communist. It is indeed as Mr Orbán said a few years ago that he did not fight dictatorship before, so the only problem with the previous system was that he did not make the dictatorship. Well, he's doing it now. I didn't live at the time, but I do know that this state culture management quotes the practice of the '50s and '60s and '70s. Manage everything in the center, regulate everything from the minister, and then the party masters will tell you what to do. This bill is also a step in this. Hungary does not need this, and we believe that this is part of Article XX. This was not what he needed in the second half of the century. It's still the wrong way. It would indeed be necessary for the Hungarian state to spend much more money on culture than it currently is, for example, so that the main museumists do not have to keep upkeeping, so that they can pay the rent in the cultural houses, and not only organise free programs, so that they can not only be in Budapest, where the still partially free institutional system has a high quality culture, but also in the countryside. And don't just make money if one of our fidesz relatives is worth it, or one of our Fidesz fellow politicians has specific goals. Compared to this, it is only a small matter that the bill defines more narrowly and worse than before what it considers the tasks of public education, that the bill does not clearly show what its author means by developing a cultural economy, and unfortunately now we have not received this answer from the secretary of state, and it is unnecessary to separate the type of institution of culture and the cultural centre. If Hungary had a government that aims at free and independent, so independent cultural life, then there would be no such proposals. We do not think that there is any need for further centralization, no need for more ministerial powers in culture. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: This is exactly what the proposal eliminates.]] As such, the MSZP Group cannot support this proposal in this form. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-04-46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-04-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I apologize for the delay of a few seconds. I am pleased to be able to express myself and KDNP's position on cultural laws as the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party. I consider it a very important point that this House is negotiating cultural laws in a relatively good place during the day. It was not always typical, and in our public life it is a rather distorted, distorted thinking that the things of culture are always classified by the economy, politics and sport, which is also part of culture, at the end. Thus, people develop a distorted notion that what is culture, museum, literature, library, public education and so on, most of which is also affected by this amendment of the law, something secondary, and more, something harmful to the common good. This law not only by putting this thinking on the agenda by the Parliament on Thursday at noon, but also by overwriting it with what it has to say. I don't see anything in the intention of the law that isn't eligible. I can't even catch the thoughts that the previous speaker has put forward, because it's a state-of-the-art framework law. It leaves details to ministerial implementing regulations, and there are no details about, for example, the growth and centralization of ministerial power. On the contrary, I refer here to the law which, in several cases, removes the Minister's prior powers of opinion, thereby reducing administration and reducing bureaucracy. What the Ministerial Implementing Regulations will be like is also exemplary, because it already shows in some respects how it intends to regulate, but we will see this. I'm not afraid of that at all. However, I must state that, since the position of the current cultural government has been taken over, it is very consistent that it is talking about basic cultural care and wants to extend the basic cultural supply to all Hungarian citizens. He introduced this concept, and informed the Committee on Culture several times about it, which accepted it with agreement. This intention can be made tangible in this law and in further legislation it will be converted into small amounts. This is extremely important, because culture, as I said, is not a consumer, but a value-making sector, and it is right to say a very careful, thorough, detailed exposure to the Secretary of State when he claims that I myself claim that the consumption of cultural assets and participation in the production of culture increase the quality of life of all people. By consuming, creating, increasing culture, contributing to the economy and improving our quality of life. This kind of approach, which usually puts the culture in the classic sense at the end of the line, is certainly time to overcome it. I clearly understand this intention in the text of the law, in the explanatory texts and in Mr Secretary of State's expozee, which is very comprehensive in every detail. So I'm going to give up talking about every detail of the law here, and that's not my job. Rather, I would like to emphasise that it is clear why the Christian Democratic People's Party can fully support this law. First of all, because of what I have already pointed out, that you are talking about basic cultural care and community service, which can lead to an improvement in the quality of life for all Hungarian citizens. Without such a basic cultural supply, our lives would be bleaker, and people with bleak lives, who do not benefit from culture, in the economy and in their workplace, would perform much weaker. This connection is perfectly clear. The law indicates that the costs will soon be determined by the Finance Act and will say nothing else. Therefore, I do not understand the words of the socialist Member before me, how he can link this law with the reduction of costs. Then, when we discuss the budget, it is our job to make sure that culture is displayed at the end of the line as a croaking consumer, but that these aspects actually appear there. [[12.40]] The fact that regulations that will then regulate the personal, infrastructure and professional requirements of culture really serve this purpose, this law gives us the opportunity. The second thought, which is why we support this law with a very good heart, is the emphasis on folk arts, folk tradition, traditionalism and heritage protection. In recent decades, as I recall, when it came to culture, everyone thought primarily of so-called elite culture, arts, opera, literature and so on, folk arts were always a little stepchild. It is enough to point out that, for example, the beginning of the folk music profession in our musical education is not just a simple story, while not only is folk art an integral part of our culture, but without it we cannot talk about Hungarian culture. Here it is right that the tasks of the state are defined by the legislation on folk art and traditionalism, and it is very right that it focuses on quality. Not only in terms of folk art, where quality is the key aspect in the qualification of works, but also in other areas, quality-focus is also shown - here I refer to the introduction of the "Certified Library" title and the "Literature Quality Award," which is very desirable, and I can only suggest to the cultural government that in all areas of our cultural life, in more and more areas, it helps to promote the development of a quality culture, not only by state but also by territorial, municipal and other awards. The third point, which we support very warmly, is in an organic context with the former, that it considers ethnic culture an integral part of Hungarian culture, and we can be proud of it in the world and throughout Europe, where we know precisely that Hungary is exemplary in terms of relations with nationalities, the introduction of the institution of national authorities, and the promotion of ethnic education and cultural institutions. I wish that could be said about all European countries. I can't. Hungary is seen as a positive model in many places, and is also a little envious of this, although our ethnic advocates are certainly here, they also perceive that this process does not lack certain bumps sometimes, but this law, which we are discussing here, clearly demonstrates the intention of the Hungarian state, the leaders of Hungarian political life, to mention ethnic culture here as an integral part of Hungarian culture, but with a special name. Therefore, ethnic base institutions, which are envisaged by the law, also result in this kind of quality approach. As I said, I do not wish to interpret the rest of the details of the law. For the Christian Democratic People's Party, the intention is obvious, the intention is good, the intention can be followed, and the law meets the expectation that - by opening up the possibility of new regulations - it really should raise culture to the rank where we have and have always been in our thinking, everyday life. So the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-04-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will also start my speech a little further, if you will allow me, but I will certainly also make concrete comments on the draft law. I do not mean that I would go back to the Kádár era, although I should note that I also believe that I am discovering elements in the functioning of the current cultural government, not in areas belonging to the Secretary of State, but in other areas of culture which are spookily similar to those of that time, but I do not think that this bill is one of the least of them. I would rather start from a more professional point of view, namely, the particularities of culture as a whole, and I would like to mention diversity as its primary feature. Just as this bill really covers a wide range of areas from the folk college through museums, not to mention libraries, the area of traditionalism and folk art, we can see that cultural life, thanks to God, covers societies of a wide range, both personal and infrastructurally wide range, which certainly require different treatment. If we consider personal, infrastructure and professional and institutional characteristics, then in the introduction of the Secretary of State, the sentence that this has no budgetary impact has made me sad, I must say, as I would have liked it if, with this bill or other proposals, the cultural sector had managed to obtain more budgetary resources. If we are talking only about personal terms and, by the way, professionally, we consider that the personal conditions that this bill identifies and names, whether mentioned by the Secretary of State or not, are correct, but the issue of wages is an area for improvement in the whole cultural sector, to say the least. I know that some additions have started, but the wages of people working in the cultural sector are still extremely low, and with higher education they can bring home up to HUF 110-120 thousand as net salaries for those working in the sector. This is unacceptable, and much more respect should also be enjoyed by the Ministry of National Economy in the cultural area. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State once again, although you must be very tired of me constantly coming up on this subject, but do everything you can to make it possible to raise more wages in the cultural sector. Diversity also appears in terms of personal conditions, which is why the previously planned introduction of the cultural career has been off the agenda, but I would like to switch with diversity to the issue of professional and institutional characteristics, and here I would be involved in the debate on the name of the library myself. I can see, too, from your comment and from Mr Fisherman's comment, that they approach the issue primarily from the perspective of the maintenance of the name: if a city is the maintainer, it is called a city library with county scope. If we accept that culture is characterized by a diversity, then it is against this logic that because it is the name of museums, libraries should also be a single name compared to museums, because if there is a different nature of service and institution professionally, and I think it is different, then this argument does not stand in place to unite the name. Your second argument that the maintainer should appear clearly in the name may already be a stronger and more relevant argument, but, as you have mentioned, it is contrary to the professional position of professional organisations. If professional organisations say that the name of the county library, the name showing their location in the professional hierarchy or structure, this is possible, and even I believe that it is more important to take into account than that of the maintainer. On the other hand, in the case of libraries and in the age of digitalisation, it is a bit strange to talk about the scope, because the libraries have to meet and meet the needs from any part of the country through this supply system. On the subject of a change of attitude, which Mr Fisherman also mentioned, they also provide services to more than 2,500 municipalities through the current system, which has also been provided to you by professional organisations. [[12.50]] Therefore, the need for basic cultural care, which is a legitimate need and needs to be supported, could be developed and achieved through this system, and even in some sense will be achieved. Obviously, it is also worthy of other municipalities and should be supported if this is extended, but we do not believe that the name needs to be changed or priorities changed. There should also be budgetary implications for ensuring infrastructure conditions. Each session, as chairman of the Committee, I visit institutions of the Committee, cultural institutions, archives, museums, libraries, and more, and there are well-founded infrastructure development needs, both from museums, libraries and archives, which help or enable them to perform professional tasks safely. And here it is important to emphasise security, because in many cases they preserve treasures, cultural treasures that are part of our common memory, which is why it is of the utmost importance to ensure that these conditions are properly secured. That is why I also ask the State Secretary to draw the Ministry of National Economy's attention to the importance of this in relation to infrastructure developments. And then one last thought, which raises questions for us, is also the entry into the law of state duties related to traditionalism and the care of folklore. You're the one that's listed as being on the legal level, right and supportive. We see huge opportunities both from the perspective of identity and from the point of view of tourism that these specifically named tasks appear in the law, but the fact that the Minister determines in a regulation exactly who will be responsible for these public tasks and what bodies they can perform is not enough guarantee. So if they create a legislative level, listing a comprehensive number of tasks up to a-j), then the bodies responsible for carrying out these public tasks should also be governed by law, as we see it, by law, which they will be. Overall, I can say that we agree with the fundamental professional orientations of the bill, that Jobbik recognises the importance of extending the basic cultural supply, and that these are the reasons for which we will propose amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-04-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would also miss the opportunity to talk about the cultural policy of Fidesz for a longer time and to whip it up, I wish there was something, but indeed, as has been said in the speech before me, most of all in the field you represent, there are not the biggest cultural policy problems in your territory, although I will certainly mention in some parts of my speech what is important here. I would much rather talk about the current amendment of the salad law that is in front of us. In this regard, we have the view that it has basically positive goals, because it is about how to get culture to as many people as possible in Hungary, and this objective is supported by the May Other Politics. After the appointment of Mr Miklós Cseri, Deputy State Secretary responsible for former culture, in the summer of 2014, he talked about the two key strategic points of our work: cultural basic supply, access to cultural values and participation in cultural value creation for all people in all settlements, as well as the support of cultural communities, community development, which serves both to create opportunities for social groups that break down and to strengthen the middle class, to become responsible citizens. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We have already said that the May Other Policy fully agrees with the objective of ensuring access to cultural values and participation in cultural value creation for all. The reason why we consider this issue to be very important is because Hungary's lag in this area is extremely high, millions of people do not have access to the basic cultural assets, and the country is divided by a wide cultural divide. At the same time, it has been three years since we called attention to the fact that behind the nicely ringing statements, we cannot see concrete content, tools, resources. In fact, this is the problem with the current bill and the amendment of the law. One of the most important parts of the legislation is that it finally talks about basic cultural services. A number of conferences have already been held on this subject, but so far it has not yet been established what exactly they mean by basic cultural services, which should be provided to the local population by all local authorities. At the same time, the fact that the law speaks of this concept does not mean that it is now revealed exactly what it means, exactly what it means; it is considered to be a great deficiency. The cultural law is 76. According to §2 of the Act, the basic services of public education will include the promotion of the establishment of cultural communities, the promotion of their functioning, the promotion of their development, the development of community and social participation, the provision of conditions for lifelong learning, and the development of a culturally based economy. The amendment lists seven points and details to some extent; they are all well-sounding objectives. When I read it myself, I thought it was very similar to what we announced as a program, and we welcome the presence of this vision here. However, what we are missing is this transposition into practice, because here we see a great gap in the way or direction of words and implementation. Now, here's the dog buried, because despite the well-sounding objectives, no details are yet revealed. Promoting community and social participation? Very good, but how? Talent management and development? This is also a very good objective, but how do you plan to achieve it? Who, how, with what money, for whom, under what circumstances will they carry out these tasks? What help do settlements, especially disadvantaged small towns, receive? According to the experts interviewed by the LMP, it is also very welcome that the compulsory tasks of the cultural care system of the settlements will be increased, or that the state expects further important improvements from public collections, but there is often no place for more and more required tasks to be carried out, there is nothing to be done, and there is no one to do it. It still doesn't show that the minimum infrastructure and personnel frameworks are finally being defined for the optimal provision of tasks expected. It is not apparent what a central norm is given to the settlements, and I would put the emphasis here: it is not apparent how the issue of normative will be implemented. Where's the money, where's the money, honourable government parties? I myself was shocked to hear the head of the Secretary of State when, despite the fact that there were several opposition representatives in the Chamber, he mentioned that there would be no budgetary implications for this, rather than that there should be some kind of back-stabbing. The opposite, Mr State Secretary, is what we would like to see from you, that this will have budgetary implications, that will have consequences, which will mean an increase in the cost of culture, and that is what we would expect from you and we would welcome. [[13.00]] As regards the changes to public collections, we can point out that further progress would be made in proportion to the size of the collections and the scientific and public education work carried out in order to define the infrastructure conditions of the institutions and the minimum number of employees, which would also be a very important thing, setting the minimum number of staff. The fact is that the owner state or the municipality does not provide its own property, so most of the energy of public institutions and collections operating in buildings goes to preserve the state, goes to write applications and implement the renovation and preservation of their own buildings. Dear House, It is very important to develop the cultural sphere. It cannot be stressed enough that millions of people today do not have access to basic cultural goods, and we are even more behind in the field of cultural value creation. The first step in the development of further progress could be to put the current cultural institution in order, to establish and ensure the conditions under which the basic task should be performed. These include the development of material conditions, the application of professionals with the right qualifications, and we stress that it is the respected, well-paid professionals we are talking about. Mr State Secretary, the problem is that there are a lot of public education institutions that complain about the fact that those working there are constantly flirting with the need to move towards public education, because I am not saying that teachers are woozy but earning well, because if we are referring to national average earnings, average earnings, then they are not making good money, but the people working in the cultural field are making very bad money, and therefore, according to their qualifications, they often try to focus on public education and enter the teaching career. This, by the way, is also true of higher education workers, who very often leave higher education and move to public education, because they are placed in better financial conditions. This, once again, is not a compliment to public education remuneration, but a sign of an even greater lack of these areas. After all, it would be possible to expand the basic cultural supply, to define its tasks precisely, once its resources have been provided, and the careers of those working here can be well calculated. The objectives and principles of the law are in order, but the implementation remains incomplete, so we see that this is a semi-solution, not thorough enough work, we think. We also welcome the presentation of folklore, and welcome the emergence of ethnic culture. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to one more thing and to protect him from it. It was a round table to transform the council into a round table. We have seen this in the field of public education, and it's scary, and I don't have to talk much about what the round table means, what the council has become in the field of public education, unfortunately it's not about negotiating with the round partners, so it's about the opposite, just because they don't want to participate in public education because they see that it's disproportionate and they really want to use it as a set. I warn you not to mention the name, but to allow this concept to go through further emptying, but, of course, we would be happy if this were to become a real round table. To sum up, we consider the directions to be good, we do not see the strength in the direction of implementation, we do not see the added budgetary resources. We are curiously looking forward to it, and I listened very carefully, Mr Fisherman, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, about their amendments, which will soon be sent in; we will look forward to them, and then we will work out our final position. Thank you for your attention and your word. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-05-04-52	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member who has applied may now speak, so I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs.
u2017-05-04-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The amendment of the law, which lies before us now, has caused quite a lot of debate in the profession, the biggest feeling of opposition was the redesign and planned redesign of the public culture system, which would have required the creation of integrated cultural institutions in the settlements of less than 15 thousand people, and the creation of integrated cultural institutions in the settlements of more than 15 thousand people, in Hungarian, all the public education institutions in the settlements would have been merged from cultural houses to libraries in practice, which could have led to a significant deterioration of professional work, according to the experts, as the institutions would have lost their professional autonomy, so the work in the settlements would have been a victim of cost reduction. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Fortunately, this proposal has been removed from this legislative amendment, and all that remains is that these integrated cultural institutions can be created optionally in settlements of less than 15,000 people. If, therefore, this is not a mandatory one, but only as an option, it is in fact eligible in this form, and we hope that neither the municipalities nor the government will sacrifice these institutions on the altar of cost reduction. If for no other reason, it was worth consulting the professional organisations in a long and thorough manner, they followed their opinions. But let's look at some of the things that you didn't accept, and it's still in this package of laws. As far as libraries are concerned, on the one hand, according to the declared intention of the proposal, it lays down as a basic requirement the participation of public libraries in the extension of the basic cultural supply, which the national secretary of state has spoken about here for a long time. This task of libraries is important and welcome, but its specific content and the provision of possible tasks and financial and personnel conditions appear only partially ensured in the draft. The presentation of the NSZK Library Institute would give new tasks, it has been said several times here from various speakers that it is about the coordination of quality management activities in the library, the organisation of training courses, the professional preparation of the donation of a qualified library title and a library quality award, but there is also a lack of information on the provision of funds. The proposal amends the name of the county library to a county-wide urban library, stressing that the responsibilities of these types of libraries include tasks with county scope in addition to urban library tasks. Several of my fellow Members have referred to this fact that it is not entirely clear, and it can actually raise such hierarchyal problems, such as, for example, the system and practice of sub-regional libraries. As far as the field of public education is concerned, the text amending the law seeks to delete the 76th text currently in force. Paragraph 2 of § 2, which has so far identified the most important tasks of public education in nine rather well-defined points. These points were drawn up in high-level workshops at the time. The new text replacing these paragraphs is significantly narrower and more unprofessional in our view. This particular new text, in which the scope of basic cultural benefits is defined, is not known, however, what the author of the draft means by culturally based economic development, and therefore it is not really clear what they mean by that, so it would be appropriate to leave this concept or to define what they mean by it. The 77th would change. Paragraph 2 of the Act, which would say after the amendment:. The institution of public culture or the community scene may be a church, other organisation or private person within the framework of an agreement between the state, local government, local government, local government, local government and local government. In Hungarian: churches and individuals can also be the operators of public education institutions in the future. [[13.10]] This is particularly interesting, if a settlement, let us say, involves a single institution in the treatment of the church, then how can it be ensured that worldview neutrality is guaranteed. This is a common problem in the field of public education institutions. Just to give you a living example, a friend of mine had just indicated that his daughter had not been admitted to the only music school in the city, because during the entrance exam they asked him if the child was baptized, and when he said that he wasn't, they told him that they wouldn't pick him up then. So in that town of 30,000, he's out of music school. This should be better regulated in order to avoid such problems, for example, in the field of public education institutions. The amendment of the law would also re-regulate the types of public education institutions that can be created if the professional, personal and infrastructural conditions laid down by law exist. The cultural house, the cultural center, the cultural centre, the multifunctional community centre - in Hungarian amik -, the folk college, the folk crafts creative house, the children's and youth house, as well as the leisure centre. This kind of definition, listing system is outdated in several ways. The amendment here would unnecessarily separate the cultural and cultural centre type of institution. It would raise the previously broken-up amks as a legal rank, i.e. multifunctional public education institutions as a concept, and it would declare the folk college and the folk crafts creative house as an independent and equal type of institution, of which the former is an educational institution, while the latter is an art institution, so they are in no way fit to comply with either the text currently in force or the modified text, i.e. 76. I'm talking about paragraph 2 of Section 2. Moreover, in 2017 the category children's and youth houses and leisure centres appeared to be premature. Today, there is no point in the specialization of the children's and youth house, as most of them have ceased in the last 25 years; the leisure centre is a recreational, primarily sport and entertainment, not a type of public education institution. At first reading, 78/C seems unprofessional. §, which also intends to operate media services, press release and tourist information services in the multifunctional institution. At first sight, they have little to do with public education, which the amendment of the law seeks to regulate. The amendment establishes the institution of the round table for public education, which my fellow Members have already talked about for a long time, instead of the Council for Public Education. The question is, who will be the subject of this round table of public education if, in fact, the public education councils have not yet been set up. This is what I understand, János Halász talked about, that they are now being developed, and then they will regulate it in detail later on, and they will develop a system to really set up the round tables for public education. So right now, it's more of a rename with some technical grating, and then later it's gonna be worked out about what it is and who it's gonna be made up of, and how it's gonna stand up. It might have been more worthwhile to consider this now, that if it had already been rearranged, then what exactly is this and how to create a situation to create more than from the previous council. You can see, then, that there are still many elements left in this amendment that have not been properly developed and formulated. Of course, you are pleased that many of the advice of professional organisations has been clearly followed in the preparation of the law. We will, of course, put in modifications. Today, as I understand it, this has happened, and it concerns the areas that I have referred to before, and you will consider this. I would also like to make an additional suggestion about the case of the National Institute of Culture, which is also raised in this amendment of the law. I think it's a cardinal problem. We believe that the National Institute of Culture should restore the status of a government public institution. We can't really understand this in any other way than what we said about the MNB foundations, that we are actually transferring public funds to a private foundation. What we would ask is that, if there is an amendment to the law, we reverse this, and if the amendments that we have tabled were to be considered and if they were to consider that the National Institute of Culture should be restored to the status of a government public institution, we might even be able to support the proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2017-05-04-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, President of the Committee, who will present the first sentence of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2017-05-04-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Vážený pan predseda! Vážené národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás vo svojom slovenskom materinskom jazyku a prájem úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, I welcomed you in my Slovak mother tongue and wished you a successful meeting. An effective meeting on museum institutions, public library provision and public education was held in CXL 1997. to debate the bill amending law and certain related laws. A bill which the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary has already designated as a possible item on the agenda of nationality under the spring legislative programme of the government. We could not be wrong and we were not wrong, since the preamble to the original law - which can now be slightly altered, but certainly not fundamentally to us - so both the existing and the new preamble states that it is in the common interest of society to preserve national, ethnic cultural traditions and to care for them. In this spirit, I would like to touch on an area of public education that is related to public tasks - according to the general justification of the bill - has not already been defined by law. This can be written out of sight for the benefit of the bill we are discussing. Which area is this? Well, traditionalism and the care of folk tradition. The state tasks related to them are detailed in 10 points of substance in the bill through the exploration, processing and accessibility of folklore and industrial heritage, to certification systems and professional services. Although this new chapter of the bill is particularly about Hungarian folklore, its location in addition to the Hungarian language area also identifies the Carpathian Basin several times. Thus, we minority advocates in the category of Hungarian and Carpathian Basin folk art, folk art and folk tradition - in the spirit of the preamble to the law - add nationalities and parentheses: we also include the culture of the people of the Carpathian Basin. The bill has been consulted with the relevant professional representative organisations - indicated on the cover of the document submitted. We advocates know that not only with them, but also with the representative organisations of national minorities, the national minority self-governments, which, of course, also have an adequate professional background, because, as included in the current law and its amendment proposal, the national authorities are also maintenance institutions for various public education institutions. However, the drafters of the bill not only consulted national national minority self-governments, but also took into account a number of their proposals; in the museum area, for example, in the case of the task of the national minority base institutions. [[13.20]] Currently, such institutions operate in Baja, Mohács, Tatán and Szentgotthárd, where cultural values of Croatian, Serbian, German and Slovenian ethnic values are preserved and presented. Such museums are proposed to be no longer classified as a base institution by the Minister in the future, but to give them such a title. My understanding is that it provides something that can be displayed with added value, recognition. And I hope that there will be a proportionate increase in budget support to the expectations that have been rightfully increased. As a new paragraph, the bill states that the museum institution, which has the title of the nationality base institution, presents ethnic culture with emphasis in its public education programmes and permanent exhibition. We welcome this, of course, because we are not only talking about our ethnic culture, but also about our common culture. In its new provision, the bill also empowers the government to regulate the detailed rules for the donation of the national minority base institution in order to implement the law. There may also be an opportunity to compensate for the budget that has been lost so far. In this connection, I would like to recall an important point from the report by the Commissioner and his alternates on their activities in 2016, which will soon be presented to this House. The Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of Nationality Rights also refers to a former Constitutional Court decision that, in respect of fundamental rights, such as nationality rights, it is the duty of the State not only to refrain from violating them, but also to ensure the conditions necessary for their enforcement. In the field of public culture, national minority authorities refer to the Fundamental Law and the Law on the Rights of Nationalities, in particular the Chapter entitled "Cultural Self-Government of Nationalities", pointing out that the rights of nationalities must be consistently passed through the bill. In the case of institution-supporting tasks of national authorities, this has largely been achieved. Where we believe it is not, we will certainly come up with a Commission amendment. We also need to consider the role that local self-governments can play in the performance of their public education tasks. It should also be considered for us how local minority self-governments, especially in municipalities where there are no registered ethnic associations, which could be founders or members of the public education round table, can cooperate with the round tables replacing a reduced number of public education councils that have become formal according to the reasons of the bill. Of the three major cultural areas of the current law and the amending bill, I left the section on public library care to the end of my speech. This has caused serious concerns and anger in both ethnic and professional circles. It doesn't seem to be a big deal. The general justification of the bill also mentions only minor changes in the area of museums and libraries. The more detailed explanation already suggests - I quote; others have already quoted -: "The major amendment to the library area is that, in terms of the duality of the function, the proposal amends the name of the county library to a county-wide urban library, which, on the one hand, creates coherence with the name of the county-wide urban museums and, on the other hand, emphasises that the function of this type of library includes both urban library tasks and county-wide tasks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this connection, the director of one of the county libraries indicated that the name of the library of the county refers to the type of institution, the legal provision of the county as a whole. The county-wide urban library is a different quality. It is not acceptable to justify that due to the coherence with the museum area, it is appropriate to name the urban library with a county scope, because the content of the museum and library county tasks is very different. County librarians and other professionals emphasize that, unlike museums, libraries form an organic system. In this system, county libraries currently provide a full library service to 2568 small settlements, a large part of the countryside. Of course, for cities with county rights, where they operate. Coherence with the museum sphere is absolutely unnecessary, as there has been a very opposite process since 2013: local museums have been separated from county museums and operate independently, while library organizations in the county have expanded and strengthened. They are concerned that the change in the name, with which the settlements will not be able to do much, will be followed by a negative organisational change and the breakdown of the library system. In professional circles, they were also surprised to find that the draft opinion submitted to them had not yet included the 15th draft bill. §2 of the Act, according to which the local government may perform the maintenance and operation of the public library by means of a non-profit company owned by the local government by 100%. So far, only cultural houses have operated in the maintenance of companies, libraries only as a public body providing cultural basic services, which should continue to be maintained, says professionals. All the more so, since the two previous library attempts, as they are now opening up, have allegedly failed spectacularly. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]] National national minority authorities have pointed out that the bill ignores the fundamental law on the rights of nationalities 41. The National Foreign Language Library coordinates the provision of library services in the native language of nationality through the public library system of the National Foreign Language Library of the county libraries and the Ervin Fővárosi Szabó Library. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The national minority authorities stress that the activities of the county libraries are decisive in the library provision of the rural ethnic population, and therefore their safe functioning in the unchanged form is crucial. The backbone of the library system is the county library network, whose conversion to an urban library with county scope cannot be identified by the current role of county libraries. However, national minority authorities can accept with satisfaction that a qualified title and qualified fee can be donated to libraries for their proposal in accordance with Article 23 of the amendment. It also extends to the field of public education. In conclusion, this bill can indeed bring about important changes in the cultural life of Hungarian nationalities. We hope that these changes will be beneficial by incorporating improved comments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-56	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak on this agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[13.30]]
u2017-05-04-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have received significant responses to the amendment of the law. Thank you all very much for strengthening the debate on the law with your comments. Allow me to respond to what has been said in the order of the speeches in some points. I would like to thank Mr János Halász, as my predecessor, former Secretary of State for Culture, for lauding him outside the field of public education, according to which the role of basic cultural care in the law, as an important aspect and as a new element in the other fields of culture, is the extension of this. Yes, the view of the law is indeed the most significant thing that can be seen at this point is that it is changing, so that it is taking a kind of updated direction, and it is, of course, that legislation is adapted to the cultural policy of the past few years. And it is also natural to expect, on the part of the largest governing faction, that the Fidesz faction also expects changes in content and attitudes for professional clarification. We also believe that the current framework will be able to take place subsequently, so that in the next period, there will also be a change of perspective within the framework, because, in view of the institutional system as a whole, we are seeing very welcome trends at national level. What we see is that institutions that have really taken it seriously in the last three years, that in a new cultural policy, it is their responsibility that the cultural institutions supported by the state have to provide people with something extra, should not be satisfied with providing their own standard, long-established suppliers with a quality culture... - we expect more than that. So, given the atomicisation of society and the digital revolution, it seems as if European social processes have an impact on the weakening of communities, but a conservative civilian government must mobilise instruments, and the instrument that can be mobilised is the expansion of cultural goods. We believe that culturally based community organisation can lead to social healing processes that strengthen Hungary and strengthen Hungarian society against negative international trends. So, yes, I would like to say to the Member that we expect from the proposals for professional clarification that this will, in fact, lead to a comprehensive change of approach, not only in the institutional system as a whole, but also in the case of local societies and micro-communities. Allow me to respond briefly to the suggestions made by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi. Obviously, I wouldn't limit myself to giving up my political homework to show you that. I'm sure you've done your duty, and we've listened to it, but I don't want to respond to that. He intended to make more public resources available to culture, and this was the need for future speakers, and I would like to give you a reassuring number in this respect, especially to my fellow opposition Members, as this was the need in each of your speeches to motivate the government, at the same time as extending the basic cultural supply in the current legislative framework, to support this demand with additional resources. So I respectfully report to the Parliament's plenum that this has happened. I would like to demonstrate this to you with a few numbers and figures. In 2010, the total amount of government budget support and chapter-managed appropriations under the organisational responsibility of our current Community Department of Culture and Arts amounted to HUF 14 billion. Thus, the department, which also includes the task of public education, had 14 billion forints in terms of the amount of annual spending in 2010. By 2014, this HUF 14 billion was able to rise from 14 billion to HUF 24 billion as a result of four-year governance, and in the coming years even more spectacular progress was made. In 2015, from 24 billion to 46 billion, it doubled, so the amount of public funds that could be used for public education doubled, and in 2016 it was able to increase even further, even after the doubling, to HUF 53 billion. So the wording that Congresswoman Kunhalmi has signed that there is much more money to be spent on culture, yes, I am pleased to report that we have done this, as opposed to your governance. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] As opposed to the 14 billion-dollar spending, HUF 53 billion is already available for public education tasks in terms of last year's closed budget. I trust, Congresswoman, that this trend will not turn back this year, because numbers are stubborn and growth is clear. We have tripled and quadrupled the budgetary resources available for public education and art. At the same time, as a whole, you have, quite rightly, raised questions, my opposition colleagues, in the context of the fact that the general funding of culture, not only the basic supply, which is basically a public service function, not only the basic supply, but also the funding figures available for the whole culture. I can give you some numbers here. In 2012, not only did the Ministry of Human Resources, so I came here not only with the resources of our State Secretariat, but we also included cultural spending in the chapter titles of other ministries, such as the normative funding of the Ministry of Interior, in 2012 - still 171 billion cultural spending in several wallets, 171 billion, five years ago, this rose to 299 billion last year, so it almost doubled. I think that with these figures I can demonstrate well that the expectations of opposition representatives related to one of my sentences, and I would like to tell you here that when I made the comment in the exposé text, that I note that the direct budgetary impact of this amendment, which relates to basic supply, is not, was on the direct impact, my emphasis was on the, directly, because, by the way, I have succeeded globally and generally with a great deal of additional resources, thanks to God, because of the good functioning of the national economy, we are turning to culture - that is, the direct effect. So, as a result of the law, there is no need to create a direct chapter title, in which new sources must be named. I think it is a great pleasure for all of us, opposition and pro-government representatives, that state resources for culture are doubling, and there is an area where they have tripled in the seven years since socialist governance. I think this is a huge weapon, showing Hungary's strength. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's for sure!]] With regard to normative financing, because this has also appeared as a question from several Members, normative funding as an expectation is indeed an important tool for the dissemination of quality culture. And yes, Mr Szabolcs Szabó mentioned, I think, and Mr Ikotity said in his statement that it would be important, perhaps he said that it would also be better to have more resources in the area of municipalities with lower opportunities. We took a step here, too. It's a very significant gesture, I think, even if it doesn't seem like a great increase in resources, it doesn't. We introduced the normative financing rule in 2015 that the HUF 1140 cultural normative, which can be spent on library services and public education in the settlements, this 1140 HUF normative is included with a minimum amount in municipal funding, in Hungarian, to receive a minimum amount of HUF 1 million 200 thousand for each settlement. This means, I believe, that this demand has been made by Congressman Ikotity, honourable Member, that we have quadrupled the annual cultural standard of a settlement with 300 inhabitants of 320-330 thousand forints, because each settlement receives HUF 1 million at a minimum level. I am very confident that in the current debate on the draft budget law for 2018, this minimum amount of HUF 1 million could increase further. That is our intention, and the Ministry of Interior will represent this debate, as we hope. [[13.40]] I would also reassure Congresswoman Kunhalmi that her intention is the same as that of the law, so that there is no need for additional ministerial powers in the culture to read the mandatory sentence - which the Cabinet has written in its paper - that is exactly where the law is going, Congresswoman. I have reported that the minister's powers of approval will be reduced by this law. This means that the maintainers, the municipalities, would like to exercise certain decision-making powers locally. I think we're going in the right direction, there are signs of a decentralisation process with this gesture, so your expectations are the same as the bill. I wish you'd rather praise me than tell me what's going on. I would like to thank Mrs Rózsa Hoffmann very much for having caught the deregulation in an act of law and welcomed it. The congresswoman mentioned the creation of a modern framework law. This is indeed the case, and this is the intention of the government, the cultural government, to regulate in a framework law thinking what is the most important condition of effective operation. Indeed, we will want to clarify the detailed rules in the mandate of the Ministerial Decree. He said that basic cultural provision is a very important task for the public institution system and that culture is not a consumer, but a value-making sector. I believe that this approach is now the most current - how should I put it? - and non-orthodox economics experts. Thus, the highest international economists of economics report at large conferences - we have organized conferences, here in the Felsőházi Hall, in January of the week of the day of Hungarian culture, as we have heard, we organise national conferences - the idea that culture is not a sector that should be included in the expenditure of the budget, but that which should be among the producer branches, because all invested forints are actually long-term investments and develops society, thus bringing society to a resource. Indeed, in the spirit of this approach and in the light of this, the importance of folk art and traditional care, which the law gives to cultural institutions, has finally become part of the system of wider culture. I would like to thank Mrs Dóra Dúró, President of the Cultural Committee of the Parliament, for talking about the importance and usefulness of basic cultural care, because indeed, as I referred to in my introduction, we have already managed to report on the results of this in the Commission framework on a number of occasions. His suggestion is that behind the basic supply, we need more funding and that we should have a fairer wage situation, and that we should be part of the cultural staff performing this work; we also have progress in this. I respectfully remind you that, indeed, since 2008, the wages of public and municipal civil servants employed in the cultural profession have not changed. Since 2008! That's a long time. Good, we can say that over the past 3-4 years there has been virtually no inflation as a result of economic policy, and that is why the salary has not deteriorated to such an extent, but we did consider it important to ensure a system of advancement, if not a career, as a result of agreement and negotiation with professional organisations and representative trade unions; you have highlighted this. Indeed, after a year and a half of preparatory work, the professional actors see that it is not very possible to create a single cultural career, because the museologist and the actor, as well as the orchestral artist and the archivist, have different preferences and a different career; let us not talk about dancers, that they are used up after a decade or two. So you can't create a single career for the dancer and the museologist, that's the position of professionals, so we're done with that. But in order for there to be a general increase in salaries in the cultural sector, we were able to launch this programme on 1 January this year. After eight years, cultural wages have moved, even to 15%, but this programme has been launched with the introduction of a general allowance for 20,000 people. I am very confident that the draft budget law for next year will provide an opportunity for us to continue the programme, and I am pleased that the various wallets will be further encouraged to keep the programme going this year. The scope of libraries is an expression in the era of digitalisation, which Mrs President, Member of the Parliament, has caught in action, so it is important that the provision of library services takes place in more than 2,500 settlements, as the national minority advocate mentioned. Yes, indeed, it is an important achievement, and it is indeed the result of the great professional innovation of the last decade, behind which the civilian government has put significant government resources, that we can reach almost all Hungarian citizens who live in Hungary with the library service. This is done not only with the library, but also with the mobile library services in the small-walled counties. At the same time, in the period of digitalisation, the conceptual question of the name of the county domain is not anachronistic, because libraries not only have an effective role in the lending task in the cultural process, but also in the operation of a kind of community space. This is why we have been renovating 400 libraries over the past four years from various public and EU sources, and we are pleased that we are now able to focus on libraries as a cultural community space in Hungary, where not only book rental, but also cultural programmes and community programmes have been highlighted in recent years. She also put infrastructure development as a question, Madam President. I can also reply that it may not be exaggeration to say - and now not only do we claim it, but I have come across this term in serious publicity - that, looking back a hundred years, our current era of government decisions is an era of fantastic cultural economic activity in terms of infrastructure development. All I have to do is point out that our emblematic cultural buildings are being renewed in a very degraded state, that Pest Vigadó, Buda Vigadó, Várkert Bazár, the Liszt Academy, the State Opera House building, the Museum of Applied Arts are being created, and we are going to give the Museum of Ethnography a new building, we are going to give the National Gallery a new building, the Museum of Transport is completely renewed. So what we can see is that there is a cultural infrastructure development on an historic scale, which, by the way, has only a budget background of 400-420 billion in Budapest, in terms of capital development. And it is bad news for my fellow socialist Members, but the Hungarian economy is producing it, so we are no longer working to finance aid on credit, my fellow Members, as we did when we were in your period of governance. The way state spending now works is that the Hungarian economy is creating the budget coverage from which we can complicate this historic cultural infrastructure development programme. I'm glad you learn to read between the lines. My fellow Member Ikotity asked some questions about the resources, and I answered them in part, because it was on the question of several of our opposition Members. I welcome your sentence that the present draft is similar to the LMP programme. Can a pro-government author ask for more than that the proposal supported by the largest ruling group is taken over by the smallest opposition group in Parliament and supports it and considers it similar to its programme? This shows me signs of broad social consensus. As regards basic cultural provision, whether there is a specific budget support for this, I have not yet said that. Honourable Member, thank you for asking, because then I can say yes, we have created a separate chapter line for basic cultural care in the last year, so in this way there is a 100 million last year, which has already doubled this year, 200 million forints for direct basic care programmes, cultural institutions, civil society organisations and municipalities, which will be offered as a very new framework, which will help implement the programme. [[13.50]] In the matter of the council round table, so that this concept does not become empty, this is what the Member asked me to do. The tasks and functions of the public education councils have been expunged over the last decade. Rather, we could see that these public education councils were slowly fading and that they were no longer functioning, that the municipalities had no longer created them or operated them. What we expect from the change of law is that the round tables that will replace councils will move in the future, they will become more of a force and more of a calling concept for local governments, that such round tables are indeed worth operating, creating, and there it is worth managing the tasks related to public education or the organisations involved in it in a unit, and that each one's division of tasks should be parallel to the complementary programmes of each other. We hope that the round table, the new term, will give us a boost. In addition, honourable Member, I did not say this in my expo, but in the change of the name of the council and the round table, we can also catch a change of system gesture; the councils ceased in Hungary around 1990, so the round tables radiate a fresher, more dynamic organizational culture. [[Szabolcs Szabó: What about the Fiscal Council?]] To the question of Mr Szabolcs Szabó - who is now making use of an important genre of shouting, this is important - it has been removed from the draft law as an open function for the settlements of less than 15 thousand people, I reply, Mr President, that it was a draft. When a 1.0 draft is leaked that, no, it's going to be in the opposition media and confronting me in the weekend media monitor, all I can do is giggle. It's not about leaking material that's still on the move, I think -- the ones who leaked it, obviously, it's not about you -- it's about material that's already done. The government had not yet made a decision when the A- and B-versions, the alternatives to be decided, were still included in that zeroth draft, and there were indeed such proposals, similarly to the Act of Performing Arts. But I am glad that you consider it important that, in consultation with professional organisations, the position has really evolved, and often the version proposed by professional organisations has been approved by the government of the A-B versions. And after the government approved the final version of the various alternatives, we agreed and presented the final form to the organisations concerned. In order for the draft to tear apart the ambers, the general cultural centers, this is not in the law as a gesture or intention. Maintainers have the opportunity to do so today; just as they have the opportunity to set up an integrated institution that you have raised - not forbid settlements with a population of over 15 thousand - it is also possible to operate in general cultural centres in a truly focused way public education activities and tasks. The law does not favour either the opposite, its support or its rejection, but it provides an opportunity for each option. If, as a national minimum, we can agree on both issues, I am already pleased, Congressman. I would like to thank our fellow Member János Fuzik for his speech on behalf of the ethnic advocates, because I also try to pay great attention to their committee. I report every year on the cultural opportunities, their expansion and availability to the Hungarian nationalities. I think that indeed, the opportunities for the promotion of folklore and folk culture will be very much emphasized by ethnic institutions, not just by the base institutions, but in general by institutions with nationality reservations. So I believe that there is an explicit and positive discrimination gesture towards ethnic institutions in the field of legal status. I am pleased to note this, also as a Member of the Parliament of Pécs, because in Baranya County, a lot of Hungarian ethnicities are known to be active. In Pécs alone, 11 of the 13 registered ethnic authorities created their own organisation in the current cycle. The Member, Mr Spokesman, referred to minority advocacy discussions, and said that we have indeed, in this round too, been running the proposal. We consider it important, and I stress once again that this approach, as stated in the constitutional obligation, should cover the scope of activities of basic cultural care. I am very confident that institutions with a nationality reserve or a nationality base institution will also play a role in basic care programmes in the future. And to wait for them to join the round tables: from here I can only encourage national authorities as local cultural actors to really encourage local authorities to make the newly created round tables truly full of content and strengthen the cultural dialogue on the part of nationalities. What the advocate for the professional organisation of libraries has communicated in my direction, I also mentioned in a few words in the expozee. I think that professional positions are polarised. There are professional organisations that are obsessed with the expression of the county-wide city institution, but once again, as our fellow Member János Halász pointed out, here we started thinking about and along a definition of the provision of tasks, and we have established coherence with the museum and library area. I see the point in the task. The county, the county government, is out of the maintenance circle. Years ago, on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, the government, our government, made the decision to transfer even real estate from state property to county-owned cities, to increase the local government's real estate register to a hundred billion-dollar scale by transferring the buildings of the relevant cultural institutions from state property to municipal property, and, as we know, by transferring the reservation from the counties to the county institution-building centres for a year, and then, as we know, transferring the reservation to the municipal authority of county-owned cities. So there is no longer a county as an institutionkeeper, so the term "the library of the county" has become obsolete in this way. And allow me another cautious little political smile gesture: in the ministry, the term county library was put into effect on Stalin's birthday in the 1950s. Well, then there has been a change of regime here too, if you like it, Mr. Speaker, Stalin's birthday in the name of county libraries is finally not celebrated, but we can position them as a county-wide city institution. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that a large part of the keynote speakers have raised well-prepared questions to our draft law, because I have been able to respond, in line with their questions, primarily to the expansion of resources and to the need to transform the institutional system into its task. Thank you very much for being generally supportive of the draft law, and I trust that, at the time of the detailed debate before us and when the amendments are taken into account, the draft law will be refined and I respectfully ask you for the support of the law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, Following is the 2008 XCIX on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing art organisations. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/15367. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[14.00]] I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Hoppál, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-05-04-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. The Act, namely the Act on Performing Arts, sets out specific regulations for performing arts organisations, the provisions of which on leadership have been virtually unchanged since 2011, for six years. Based on the practical experience of recent years, there has been a great deal of regulatory-interpretation and clarification on the part of the local and state maintainers concerned and professional social organisations, and it has become necessary to review the provisions on leadership. During the preparatory phase, the Ministry of Human Resources has consulted the relevant professional and municipal actors on several occasions, and the proposals received have been examined in a number of respects. In finalising the proposal, we have sought to establish a regulation that is acceptable to both the performing arts profession and the relevant public and municipal institution-keepers, but is accurate and clear, thus eliminating the possibility of disputes arising from different interpretations of the regulation since the entry into force of the Act on Performing Arts. The appointment of the number one head of the performing arts organisation with state and municipal reservations is an extremely important decision. Its impact goes beyond itself, the measure that we take in this circle, as it determines the image of the artists of the organization in the medium term, the main features of its operation, the role of the country in the cultural life of its headquarters and the region. Accordingly, the rules in force since 2008, regardless of the form of the organisation of the performing arts organisation, provide for a uniform set of rules for performing arts organisations with state and municipal reservations. This is because the public mission is the same for organisations operating in different forms. Thus, the guarantees for the use of public funds must also be the same. In addition, the proposed amendment aims at creating a single and more transparent regulation compared to the existing provisions. On the basis of the proposal, the statutory management procedure should be applied, in accordance with previous practice, to a performance-art organisation governed by Act I of 2012 which is registered under the Act on Performing Arts, i.e. a public or municipal management, supervision or ownership practice, operating as a budgetary body or falling within the scope of Act I of 2012 on the Code of Work. In the case of other performing arts organisations, the relevant provisions of Act V of 2016 on the Civil Code continue to apply. At the same time, in the preparatory phase, in line with the general efforts of the government, there has been an overview of the rules on leadership choice in order to define provisions at a lower source of law. So this amendment introduces two levels of regulation by partial deregulation of the Act of Performing Arts and by the creation of sub-legislative powers. As a result of the investigation carried out, the specific provisions concerning the head of the registered public or municipal performing arts organisation other than the general employment rules are legal, while the detailed rules on the conditions for filling the job and the rules governing the application, in particular the rules governing the procedure, are laid down at the level of a government decree at the same time as the amendment enters into force. The legislative authority will respond more quickly and effectively to the regulatory need arising as soon as the detailed rules laid down in the Act have been brought into force. The power to adopt lower-level regulation will enter into force upon the entry into force of the amendment, i.e. at the same time. In the event of the adoption of the proposed amendment, the following provisions will be laid down by law. 1. Definition of the nature of employment. With the employer's head of a registered performing art organization operating as a budgetary body or subject to the Labour Code, Mt. an employment relationship shall be established with the application of its provisions relating to management workers. In this respect, the regulation does not contain any new elements; this practice has remained unchanged since 2008. 2. Definition of the way in which the leader is elected. At this level, it is not a new regulatory element, according to the proposal, management can continue to be carried out through a tender, in line with current practice. However, the conditions for filling the management position and the possible possibility of exemption from them, the content and procedural rules of the management selection application, will be established at the level of a regulation in the future. 3. Specific rules to be applied when filling the job. It is proposed that all provisions which lay down provisions other than the general rules of the Labour Code, certain provisions relating to conflicts of interest and termination of employment, as well as provisions relating to the duration of employment and remuneration remain at the level of legislation. The amendment does not change the current legislation in these respects either. However, the regulatory element for the qualification of performing art organisations would be modified. Leadership under the Act of Performing Arts is one of the prerequisites for a priority and national qualification defining the promotion of performing arts organisations. According to the current rules, if this condition is not met for a whole season and therefore is not chosen by law, the qualification should be terminated. At the cost of hard, hard work and professional programmes, it has passed through state procedures that an institution will receive a high-ranking status, with higher funding or the highest national status, with even higher funding, after a year it will lose it according to today's regulations. The amendment intends to introduce an increase of 12 months' grace period corresponding to the season, i.e. the Ministry's obligation to act if justified, to 24 months, which may be granted by the Minister on the basis of his maintenance request and justification. Of course, the proposal also includes the powers necessary for the establishment of a government regulation. In addition to what has just been detailed, the bill contains provisions, which are not linked to leadership, coherence and clarification; for example, clarification of the delegated provisions previously laid down, setting out the scope for reporting on budgetary support, recording the obligation of performing art organisations to report data changes and others. In parallel with the amendment bill, regulation at the level of the government regulation was also established, which was also adopted by the government after extensive consultation. I am aware that due to partial deregulation, the proposal for an amendment to the law submitted is difficult to interpret in itself, so in order to inform my fellow Members, I believe it is necessary in my exposition to explain the elements that are coming to the level of the government decree. [[14.10]] The government regulation adopted was modified in several essential elements of the conciliation process, and the government reacted responsibly and sensitively to the objections that were usually written by life, so I can say that the Government decree is in agreement with both the professional and the maintenance side. As an example, the regulation at the level of the government decree was sent in A- and B on the basis of the proposal of the Hungarian Academy of Arts. The general provisions of the two drafts were identical. Option A covered an open tender scheme identical to the tender scheme so far, while version B of the draft could have created the possibility to open the restricted tender procedure in addition to the open tender procedure. In the course of administrative and social consultation, the majority of the wallets and organisations involved in the opinion supported the open procedure under variant A, so that the adopted Government Decree does not contain restricted tendering opportunities. I am also linked to my comment on the former law, so in a previously leaked work paper, which is an alternative, it cannot be considered as the final position of the government, the government is developing its final position in the framework of professional organisations and various consultations. The main elements of the adopted government regulation are: the regulation defines the composition, tasks and the obligation to present their opinion more precisely than the current legislation; the nine-member body is invited by the maintainer; its powers cover the opinion and support of the proposals received. The composition of the panel ensures a balanced and sufficient participation of all relevant sides, four persons in order to represent the profession shall be established by the rapporteur-art committee concerned - or, if the performing art organisation has several sections, or, in the course of its operation, by means of an agreed proposal, by the rapporteur-art committees concerned - two persons representing the employer's side shall be delegated to the maintenance delegation and two persons to represent the employee side; one main trade union with the largest local membership shall delegate another person. Finally, the Minister for Culture is entitled to another main delegation to the nine-person committee. The Government Decree also clarifies the details of the referral and delegation process of the Technical Committee, which are not covered by the current law. The advisory role of the Technical Committee, which is essential for the professional aspects of the cultural sector, is complemented by CLXXXIX 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. the procedure laid down for the preparation of municipal decisions laid down by law. In the course of the opinion, the evaluation shall be carried out on a proposal following the personal hearing of the applicants. In order to support a proposal, the majority of those present must have a vote in favour. The Committee's opinion shall be presented at all the forums of the evaluation phase in order to ensure sound decision-making. It remains the maintenance and responsibility of the decision on leadership, in which it is obliged to consider the opinion of the Technical Committee. Therefore, once again, the technical committee will issue an opinion, which will then be considered by the institutionkeeper. At the same time, in order to strengthen the importance of the professional opinion and the role of the Commission, we have introduced as a new element the necessary justification for a maintenance decision other than the Commission's opinion, i.e. the appointment of candidates not supported by the Technical Committee. This regulation was also written by life, we have seen a number of such situations in the last decade, the technical committee has issued a guiding opinion, and the guiding opinion could be made by the maintainer, he can still do it today, he has not taken into account. But if you do not take into account the work and opinion of the Technical Committee, you will now have to give a very significant reason for this. The government decree clearly sets out the deadlines to be applied in the tendering procedure. The deadline for submission shall be 30 working days, 30 days thereafter and 30 days thereafter from this meeting. In the case of a local government maintainer, the next meeting of the Assembly of Representatives is available to take the decision. The current rules do not currently provide for a deadline for non-normal termination of the management mandate, exceptional termination, early mutual agreement, death and other measures to be taken within 60 days. In this case, the person defined by the former deputy manager or by the practitioner of the employer's powers may be entrusted with the management tasks for a limited period of time, but not more than until the appointment of the new manager. By analogy, the deadline for action following the unsuccessful tendering procedure is also amended to 60 days instead of the previous 30 days. On the proposal of the professional side, we introduce the publicity of the successful tender. The successful application of the applicant shall be made public on the basis of a preliminary statement made at the time the application was submitted and after the procedure has been completed. The successful application shall be made available to the public and shall be provided by the body designated in a government decree for administrative and service tasks related to the operation of the performing arts organisations. In the Government Regulation, the requirements for the position of manager and the possibility of exemption from them are changed compared to the legislation in force. Under the current rules, a lawyer or economist with a higher education degree and five years of professional experience in performing arts can be selected as head of the performing arts organization. As a new element, the Government Decree nuances the criterion of internship, taking into account the complexity of the performing-artist area and the local peculiarities, the maintenance needs that have arisen, as a requirement to be met in addition to the professional level of formal qualifications, provides for five years of professional or three-year artistic management experience in performing-arts organisations. So, according to maintenance needs, the law, which has appeared in the media, allows for facilitations. However, in accordance with the rules in force, the Minister of the Sector, the holder of the power of appointment, on a proposal from the Minister of Industry, may continue to grant exemptions from the criterion of vocational education and training to applicants with higher education and training in performing arts. The criterion of professional higher education was awarded by the state art prize - Kossuth Prize, an excellent artist and a worthy artist - as well as the scientific degree in art, science and theatre, dance, music, movement arts, PhD or DLA... - the applicant is automatically exempted. By describing these detailed rules of the regulation, I believe that the amendment to the law has become more understandable. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that from what I have described, it will be clear to everyone that the bill, which is of particular importance to the performing arts sphere, and the government regulation that has already been adopted, will succeed in creating a single and more transparent future regulation than the provisions in force. I would like to ask you to support the adoption of the bill, and we would like to thank you for any improvements you may have made.
u2017-05-04-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[14.20]]
u2017-05-04-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Yes, we have a small-scale proposal to amend the Act on Performing Arts, Mr Secretary of State presented the details. I could imagine a larger-scale amendment, and I think it would be necessary at several points. But these points, which are now contained in this amendment, make this system more transparent, and this new two-tier regulation makes it more flexible, which is why we support it. The little thing about registration, with the registration of performing arts organisations, is very important, this registration is one of the pillars, the basic element of being a performer-art organization, and the fact that we regulate this issue at legal level in relation to the failed registration is actually a very right, a clarification step. With regard to the appointments of head of institution, I was very pleased that Mr Secretary of State had made the situation very clear. We must emphasise this because, knowing opposition attitudes, they do not always say what is in the law. So let's look at what's not in there first. First of all, the way you choose a leader does not change at all, it remains the way it has been before, so the way you choose a leader will continue to decide on public tenders, and that can reassure everyone. What is still changing is regulation on the classification of organisations, but it is also a small-scale thing. In the world of performing arts organisations, the, and the national qualification, is included, and organisations with such qualifications must choose their leaders in the manner and timetable provided for by law; if this is not the case, they will be sanctioned to be deprived of the title. That's very right, it's a guarantee element. Such a clarification in time, what is happening here, is also a small-scale change. And in the State Secretary's Expoze, what we have heard about what the Government Decree will contain was, in my opinion, a very important thing, and thank you very much to Mr State Secretary. We are talking about two levels of regulation: a more transparent, more flexible situation, and a second level, not only the law, but also the level of government regulation, Mr Secretary of State described in detail, in very detail, and this shows that nothing changes in the system in essence. This change that is happening now, of course, we support it, and we are open to the fact that later, years later, if necessary, there will be new changes, but there is no sign of it now, nor is there any indication that this is necessary. Thank you very much for your attention. Our faction supports the amendment.
u2017-05-04-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-04-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Every time Mr. Fisherman said that nothing would change, there is a suspicion that there is a change in the appointments. But let's see the law itself. We have been used to the fact that, since Viktor Orbán has been ruling again since 2010, the lexes have emerged and we have become a country of personalised laws. There is lex Matolcsy so that György Matolcsy can make a lot of money; there is lex Mocsai to become a former excellent handball captain rector; there is lex Vajna so that the successful Hollywood producer can steal himself more successfully on the slot machines. Now here's lex szombathely, another personalized law, another nail in the coffin of a country that operates according to predictable laws for everyone. At least six dozen such laws have been passed in recent years, which is the rule of law, the disregard of democracy, and it is an excellent example that Fidesz wants to bring happiness to its own people and to its own economic moonyard, while referring to Hungarian people. At Fidesz you can buy laws with loyalty, flattery, submission, but primarily with money. There are no acceptable elements of the law before us, if something good can be said about it, it is not about stealing. But it is an excellent example of what Fidesz thinks about performing art and theatres in the 21st century. In Hungary in the first century. Alternative theatres have already been brought to the brink, and now the remaining professionalism can only be further destroyed, which this proposal would do. We do not really understand the need to reduce the required management experience for theatre directors from five to three years, unless Péter Fülöp, who has been managing the theatre in Kaposvár since Zoltán Rátóti's resignation, can continue to fulfil this function and the Weöres Sándor Theatre in Szombathely can also be under political control. Is there another lex buddy or lex footman born? If not, then perhaps it would be worth explaining why the appointment of theatre directors will be regulated at the level of a government decree from now on. No one in Hungary would be surprised if the new step of the Fidesz culture concept was to be assigned to him by the government. If this proposal is accepted by the Parliament, it will be easier for the Fidesz government to appoint faithful but perhaps incompetent people to lead the theatres by circumventing the profession. This is the way to reward the person who has not earned the trust of the company and the profession in recent years, but also Viktor Orbán, János Lázár or Zoltán Balog. It's just that you don't go to the theater, it's the viewers who don't want to see lectures, they want to see high-quality arts, good theatres. And good theatres can not be made by politics, politics never makes good professional theatres, but by theater directors with the ability, good dramaturgs, actors and directors, not political appointed. Dear Parliament, Art is always good when it's free. Fidesz space booking has shown in recent years that it is capable of ruining working things and making cheap, low-quality propaganda with a lot of money or stealing money. For example, the Hungarian Academy of Arts is an excellent example of this, where public money disappears as if Andrássy Road is a big black hole. It's small, it's dark, but at least it's ours. According to the MSZP, the Parliament should work to ensure that art is as free as possible in Hungary and less dependent on politics, and not that politics is pulling the lead on theatres. Therefore, this proposal cannot be supported by the MSZP. Thank you.
u2017-05-04-64	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-04-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, and a fraction of it! I will be very brief, given that we are discussing a very short law, which has only four or five substantive paragraphs, and others are technical, and as we have heard from the words of the secretary of state saying the expo, and we can read the law, it focuses on one thing: it regulates the conditions for the appointment of the leaders of the performing art organizations. As a private person, as a layman, everyone perceives and knows that the image of an institution is largely determined by the skills and mentality of its leader. In the field of education, we are also aware of research results, which show with scientific credibility that, for example, the effectiveness of a school or school is determined by more than 50 percent of who is the leader within a year or two. I do not know about such research in the life of performing art organizations, it is possible that there may be, there may not be, but I believe that there is no secondary, but it is very important who has, what kind of preparation and under what circumstances elected leader. For example, the life of a theatre may be judged by public opinion rather than by star artists, but those who have even a little insight into the operation of such a complex organization know what depends on a leader. And it is also a fundamental question of leadership science that you can now give a pretty clear answer to whether it is definitely the best leader, let's say, at the head of a theatre, who is the most famous and the most distinguished actor, or if you can also be a good leader who happens not to be an actor, knows something about it, but an excellent manager, a lawyer, and so on. CHAPTER XX By the second half of the century, driving science gave a clear answer that leadership is an independent science, which is why it requires that an important organization be led by a leader who is both competent, experienced, experienced, trained, and able to do so on the basis of its human qualities and competences, but, let's add - especially in the human sphere - he must understand that area, and know it from within. [[14.30]] In my view, this amendment, which does not substantially change the procedure to date, satisfies these aspects, also by regulating the conduct of leadership at two levels, both at a legal level and at a government regulation level, namely the order in which the application is submitted, evaluated, the composition and procedure of the technical committee are laid down in a government decree. It is just a thank you and a compliment to Mr.Péter Hoppál, Secretary of State, that if, even though we may have used our patience for a little while, he has presented the content of the government decree - it is not a normal procedure here - and who may have had some question of good and then how the regulation will be and what it will contain, this demand has now been satisfied. So thank you very much. On behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we support this amendment that the government has found necessary.
u2017-05-04-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-05-04-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, let us make it clear that this bill, which can also be called lex Jordan, came before the Parliament after the case in Szombathely, on which there are several problematic questions. On the one hand, there is a specific situation that you would like to answer, but, as Mr Fisherman said in connection with the election of leaders, there will be no substantive change. So it can provide a lot of lessons for politics, for the maintenance, for the profession as well as for what happened in Szombathely in connection with the theater director's application, and this is the whole case, as the city and the maintainer were practically paralyzed in the situation in which politics and the profession were practically opposed. There has been a situation where no one was happy that it had evolved, but it is not happening that we are moving away from this regulation, either in substance or through radical changes. In fact, we Members of Parliament cannot be sure that this is not happening, because the fact that the Secretary of State is ordinary and here he is reading us the Government Decree is not an act that can be assessed as a guarantee of the rule of law, it would require greater guarantees in a rule of law, and that the Government Decree is agreed before the referral, and that the Secretary of State here also describes which version has won the support of the majority of governments, which means a reduction of guarantees for a Member of Parliament, especially in opposition. Regulations that have been in law have been passed to the level of government decrees. This could indeed be seen as deregulation, but in the present case, substantive selection criteria are also subject to a lower level of legislation, in which we see a reduction in guarantees. The fact that if the maintenance committee deviated from the opinion of the expert committee, the Secretary of State said here, as such a huge shift, that he would then have to give reasons for this decision to the maintainer, it cannot be considered to be such a huge shift that this would shake the way the theatre directors have chosen so far. The substantive powers, the opinion of the experts and the maintenance decision, this is a procedure that is justified in many respects, this is still practically unchanged, so that the opinion of the technical committee should not be taken into account, and the obligation to state reasons, even if not legally provided, had to be presented to the press by the local government and had to tell them why they did not support Tamás Jordan or why they did not support other applications. This will therefore, in effect, now regulate such an existing situation at the level of regulation. It is a pity that Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has gone out because there is a difference between our opinions because politics can sometimes make a good theater, and we all experience it here, even in terms of the meetings of the Parliament. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] and, by the way, the MSZP is very much contributing to the appearance of the theatre in politics - I did not say that in a professional sense, of course. [[Defiance.]] I do not want to be long on this proposal either. First of all, the legal reasons I have explained are that we see a reduction in guarantees in this, and therefore we do not support it in its present form. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-04-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In an ideal world, political interests are excluded when choosing the leaders of performing arts organisations, such as theatre leaders, and in an ideal world only professional and artistic aspects are taken into account. In an ideal world, decisions are not spoken from above, they are not centralized, there is no pressure on the part of the government. The power also knows that it does not have any interest, does not want to interfere in local affairs, considers it important and respects local communities, communities' autonomy, subsidiarity, non-cultural struggles, does not want to appoint anyone, does not want to see anyone anywhere, which is not an institution of its maintenance; let the maintainers decide on this, let the municipalities decide on the basis of professional considerations. In such an ideal world, professional committees are formed, where prestigious professionals, actors and theatre directors are invited, but actors in the local cultural life and the actors and staff of the institution are invited, and on the recommendation of the professional committee, the maintainer makes his professional decision on the appointment of director without any external, governmental pressure. In an ideal world, the appointment of the Director requires strict professional conditions and standards in terms of qualifications, professional leadership experience and career paths. In an ideal world, we think it should happen somehow. In a less ideal world, certain conditions are also imposed, for example, what is currently under the Act of Performing Arts 40. read in section 2 of this article, and I quote: "The management is entrusted to a person with a professional degree and at least five years of professional experience. In respect of this paragraph, a degree in vocational education and training obtained in a higher education institution with a diploma or diploma corresponding to the basic activity of the institution or with a law or economist's degree shall be considered as a specialised degree. So far, the quote is the 40th Act of Performing Arts. of the European Economic and Social Committee. In this less ideal world, however, the work of the professional committees is already under serious political pressure, and I would also like to influence the decision of the maintainers. In this world, culture has long since begun, and the current power wants to appoint its own candidates for leadership. In this less ideal world, the institutions are divided into right-wing and left-wing theatres, and the aim is to make non-own-sided leaders impossible and excluded. [[14.40]] This process did not go to the extremes, as due to the significant social, residential and professional outrage, the power is frightened and dances back, makes concessions, gives a little time, appoints another year, shows the protein of its teeth, but does not strike everything out of pure strength. He shows his strength, moves in the first place, weeds out the elements he doesn't like from the system, but doesn't do everything at once; not because he doesn't want to, not because he's patient, but because there's still social resistance against which he's forced to back down. He has not yet fully removed the mask of his democratic and professional commitment, the horse's foot is hanging out, but if the contrast between beautiful words and ugly deeds is completely clear, then he becomes embarrassed, less and less embarrassed. There's a third world, everyone should consider it their own taste. In this world, it is written in the law, and I quote: "The conditions for filling the position of the leader and the rules for exemption from the conditions are laid down in the Government decree. For example, as stated in the amendment of the law that we are discussing here, because I quoted it from there. In this world, they don't give up appearances. The imposition of professional conditions and control? Come on. What's that for? You've never been too interested in these aspects before, but now you can finally take advantage of the power, you don't have to hide or pretend so much, you can give what's really, really, really. In this world, professional reasoning, instead of persuasion, can be described in the justification of the law, I quote:. Based on the experience of the practice of the last few years, a number of regulatory-interpretation issues and clarification issues have been raised by the local government and state maintainers concerned, as well as by professional and social organisations, and there has been a need to review the provisions on leadership choice. So far, the quote. There may even be some form of appearance, trying to defend themselves, although it may also be that, with full power, it is provocation, when a bureaucratic competition is described, I quote:. When detail rules are brought to the level of government regulation, the legislator will respond more quickly and effectively to the regulatory needs of everyday challenges. I think that may be Other in Politics, that it is really just a form of wording that is more specific if the legal paragraph were to sound like this: Fidesz-KDNP decides who can be director of the theatre in Hungary today, there is no place for a counter-opinion or apella. Dear House, Although the Secretary of State presented this Government decree, and it was somewhat comforting what he said, but, Mr Secretary of State and honourable House, if it is moved to a lower level, it is taken to a level of government regulation, then from here, it is out of Parliament's jurisdiction, and at any time it is relatively easy, even very easy, to modify this Government decree to a completely different way. I think it is a responsible Member of Parliament, and I am signaling this to my honourable members of the Government, with reference to the fact that the government will be able to react more quickly and cannot vote responsibly. This is the dismantling and dismantling of a system, a democratic system, of all the values that the government proclaims in its own programme and, in principle, in its own values, where it talks about the respect of autonomy, subsidiarity. It's not that at all, it's a direct intervention. In relation to external or opposition reactions, this government decree may be more dim than the press, less frightening than many expected, but it is totally unacceptable that this is out of Parliament's jurisdiction. The last thing we can do is support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-04-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent congressman to apply. A statement will be made by Mr Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member, within a 15-minute timeframe. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, it has been mentioned here by virtually everyone that one of the most delicate issues in Hungarian cultural life is, I think, the choice of theatre directors, not in the last seven years, but in many, many years. By the way, if you think about it with a sober mind, then you can say that it's actually perfect, there's no good solution to that, and there probably won't be any, because if someone, I mean a maintenance man, really wants to appoint a man to be the director that he wants to put there, he's gonna put it there. From now on, there is only one task for everyone: somehow try to define its maintenance responsibilities a little well and make it clear to everyone: that if a person is elected theater director who is not liked by the voters in that theatre, then he will be expelled in the next election. That's about the point, because you have to assume political responsibility, and then at the end of the day, everyone has to take responsibility. During this period, when the case of Tamás Jordan had not yet received such a very big response at national level, it was only in Szombathely that it had a greater news value, then I was down in Szombathely, or I talked to the principal there for half a day, and we were walking around the city, and it was shocking that he couldn't make two moves, and people kept coming to him, and they told him that now we're hearing what's going on with you, and the city leaders don't want you to be the director anymore, well, we're never going to vote on them again. That is the point, in the end, I think: if a municipality makes a bad decision, then it will take responsibility by taking the hell out of it. Especially in a settlement of the size of Szombathely, it is quite clear that even this can have such a direct effect. From now on, the question really arises about what is worth regulating in law. I think that the framework that needs further clarification with this amendment is, in fact, appropriate. 'Cause what's happening? There is a proposal, applicants submit their programmes, a committee takes a view that one of them says that it is eligible, one of them says that it is not eligible, depending on what the committee says. Obviously, the most ideal would be to withdraw from the tender the person to whom he says he is not eligible, because the committee said he was not qualified, to which he says he is competent, among those who maintain, say, the body of representatives of a local government, choose the one that he would like to see at the head of the institution he maintains, and as I mentioned earlier, and then the voters at the next municipal election will decide whether they agree with it or not, because the director is doing a theatre that they like or not. I think that, in particular, it is a waste to go into regulation in more detail, because, I say, it is not possible to draw up a rule that will be perfect for everyone, and it cannot be designed to be a system that cannot be put there, even on the basis of political considerations, and especially because there is a very clear rule in this material:. The conditions for filling a leading position and the rules for exemption from the conditions are laid down by the Government in a regulation. It defines who has been relieved of what, and then it's over, because all you have to do is get the right rules in the regulation, and then whoever gives you this exemption, you just have to lobby, and then it's settled. But I'm telling you, it's not just for the last seven years, it's been a very sensitive and critical issue before. What I'm trying to say here on the whole, I don't know how obvious that was. The problem is that there is a great deal of mistrust, actually, against politics when we talk about the election of the theatre director. With the current government, the previous and the previous, and all of them, there was such a mistrust, now at the most it was a little bit culpable because of the case of Tamás Jordan. [[14.50]] That's why, obviously, when that particular draft leaked, everyone snored. Now, in parentheses, I'd like to say that the reason why we shouldn't pretend that it had nothing to do with this is because someone wrote it down and wrote down that there was an A-and B-version, and obviously he didn't think that B was completely stupid, but I'm going to put it next to "A" being something. They must have thought it was good for you and good for you, and then we'll decide what's going on. It's just that it's probably leaked out, so they realized that this would be a little harsh, that without an open tender, someone could be appointed in an invitational tender, because it would have been quite clear that they'd be hitting on someone from then on to invite you, and then you'd be the one to apply, and then I'd be exempt from all the conditions, because I'd be able to determine that by government order. Obviously, therefore, they backed out of this, and actually came out of it, if you look at the bill itself, then a taxative text that you can say in itself, I say, it's okay, and we also know that these kinds of clarifications, technical details have been humming for quite a long time, and they say that it should be done like that, a little bit more, so it's okay in itself, the only problem behind it is that there is such a great degree of mistrust, knowing the history. And that, in particular, raises the degree of uncertainty so that, of course, here the Secretary of State will read the text of the Government decree, and tomorrow morning they will rise up and make a decision or decree, which is exactly the opposite - and then what happens? 'Cause then we'd be happy to be here, but good, and then they'll accept it the next day, and 24 hours later, we'll read in the Gazette how it's changed now. So in this particular atmosphere, I think it is unnecessary to delude ourselves that we will support it in itself, because, in some points, in the legislative amendment, the government gives itself opportunities to rewrite the basic rules at any time, say, in the election of the director of the theatre. Not long ago we had a conference, organized by the Party Foundation of the Together, where we talked about this topic among other things. We also made it clear there that the Joint Committee does not particularly want to interfere and does not want to overrule the choice of such institutional leaders. We simply think that it should be transparent, transparent, that everyone should follow the minimum rules, for example, in the election of the theatre director, the committee that says that it is suitable or not suitable for running an institution on this basis. If you say it is suitable, then the maintainer should choose, and you will be kind enough to take political responsibility for it, and from then on no one should complain when, say, a municipality is attacked by a director elected to the head of the institution that he has maintained, or because of the election of the government, for example, the director of the National Theatre, and say that he has made his own decisions and made the wrong choice - this is the popszakma. Unfortunately, I'm telling you this better, I think we can't solve it, at most we have to exercise some restraint sometimes, and then maybe we could live in a normal country and choose theater directors in a normal way. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the voice of the minority spokespersons invited by the committee representing nationalities. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his native language and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2017-05-04-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! U vezi predloga zakona T/15367 o modifikaciji Zakona XCIX iz 2008. o specialnim pravilima i finansiranju u oblasti umetničkih organizacija, a u kontekstu odredbi koje se odnose na prava narodnosti, želim da uzmem reč. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. T/15367. I would like to speak on the aspects of the draft law concerning nationalities. XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. According to the preamble to the law, the intention was that the state led to the cultivation and development of demanding Hungarian performing arts - theatre, dance and music - and to increase the diversity and value of the performances and concerts to a wide audience, to promote the education of the children's and youth age groups to be receptive to performing arts, to promote the international presence of Hungarian performing arts, to promote the maintenance of Hungarian culture across borders, to support the artistic life of Hungarian ethnicities; to develop the necessary system of performing arts and institutions, to create a system of support for the efficient use of public funds, thus helping to promote the enforcement of cultural rights. Nationalities in Hungary can contribute to the realisation of this intention by their specific theatre, dance and music arts due to their nationality, and their diversity of arts. They thus develop not only the cultural life of the ethnic community, but also the cultural life of Hungarian society, the spiritual state of society, as well as social self-knowledge and acceptance and solidarity towards each other. What is an opportunity for the whole society to colour cultural life is the right granted to nationalities by the Fundamental Law and the National Rights Act to ensure the survival of the minority community. Article XXIX of the Fundamental Law Article 1 (1) of the Act provides for the right of nationalities in Hungary to cultivate their own culture, our own culture. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 17. §2 of the Act defines as the inalienable Community law of nationalities the preservation, care, strengthening and transfer of our identity, the preservation and development of our language, the care and enhancement of our physical and intellectual culture. XCIX of 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations. Law also defines as one of its aims, namely the presentation and promotion of the creation of works in the language of Hungarian nationalities, through the value-creating activities of Hungarian composing and performing arts organisations across the borders. Within these legislative frameworks, nationalities seek to carry out performance-art activities in various ways, a brief presentation of which, on the basis of the 2008 work programme on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations, will be presented. XCIX. I would like to take this opportunity to amend the law. Almost all nationalities in Hungary engage in performing arts, ethnic theatres as budgetary bodies or the maintenance of non-profit companies, or the operation of civil society organisations. Many of them play only in Hungarian, such as the Cinka Panna Gypsy Theatre, the Karavan Theatre or the Urartu Armenian National Theatre, but the majority have a theatre playing in their own language. [[15.00]] It is a long line, I list them: the Croatian Theatre in Pécs, the German Theatre in Hungary, the Serbian Theatre in Hungary, the Romanian Theatre in Hungary, Neaniki Szkini Greek Theatre, Cervinus Theatre, Szarvas, Vertigo Slovak Theatre, Glorious Friends Slovenian Theatres, First Ukrainian Theatre in Hungary, Malko Teatro Bulgarian National Theatre, Teatr LIS Polish ethnic theatre. Few of the listed ethnic theatres are ethnic theatres operating their own theatre infrastructure, stage technology, administrative space, warehouse, locker room, set and costume production workshops, spectators. These theatres employ full-time theatre professionals, who have been existentially linked to Hungarian ethnic theatre arts for decades. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] There are only four ethnic theatres in Hungary with their own theatre spaces and native speakers throughout the country. These are: the Serbian Theatre in Hungary, the Croatian Theatre in Pécs, the German Theatre in Hungary and the Cervinus Teatre in Deer. As a member of the Serbian nationality, I would like to point out that only the Serbian nationality has its own playground in the capital, where the present/being ethnic theatre festival took place several times, and also a frequent meeting place for ethnic theatres. In order for almost all nationalities in Hungary to feel it is important to have their own national theatre in some form, there can be no doubt on the basis of the list and the short description. It is important for us to continue caring for the replacement of ethnic theatres, the revival and annual holding of a national theatre festival, the award of state professional awards to national theatre artists and the establishment of a national reception theatre in Budapest. However, in order for all nationalities to boast of their own well-balanced and professionally high-quality ethnic theatres, further progress would be needed in the area of funding in particular. The safe operation of ethnic theatres would be greatly facilitated if the existing tender element, which has been doubled in recent years, were replaced by budget funding, which would ensure the operating conditions of the theatres in a predictable way, without time shifts. It would also be necessary to create a minority reception theatre in Budapest. The Association of Nationalities Theatres, the Hungarian Teatre Society and other theatrical organizations have already indicated the need to establish a permanent playground in the capital, where rural ethnic theatres and theatres without infrastructure in Budapest could present themselves in their mother tongue. Unfortunately, this initiative has not yet succeeded. We continue to ask for the training of replacements, the organisation of higher education in the theatre. Hungarian theatre artists and directors are trained at university level in Novi Sad, Marosvásárhely, Bratislava. This is what Hungarian ethnicities would like to see at least every three years in the minority class, where at least one or two students of Slovak, German, Gypsy, Croatian, Serbian origins would increase the acting stock of ethnic theatres. It would be possible to get to know ethnic theatres if national theatres were invited to various theatre festivals. The Arcusfest National Theatre Festival has also not been held for a decade, and unfortunately there is neither a budget framework nor a suitable venue for the national army parade in 2017. Mother tongue acting is of particular importance to all nationalities, as it contributes to the dissemination of ethnic culture, to the care of our mother tongue, but overall, to the coloring of the cultural life of society, and to the promotion of openness to each other. This is why we feel that XCIX of 2008 on the promotion of performing arts organisations and specific employment rules. We also had to talk about the specific problems of ethnic theatres in connection with the amendment of the law. In many ways, progress has also been made thanks to the government, but unfortunately, we have to see that the legislative amendment with the specific problems of ethnic theatres, which we have indicated several times and in several forums, has not yet produced the expected results. XCIX 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performers' organisations. T/15367. Proposal No.3 aims to re-regulate almost exclusively the election of directors of performing arts organisations. We did not understand the need or the reasons for the introduction of the regulation to the level of government regulation until Mr State Secretary's presentation, and I thank you for the information, too. However, it would mean a substantial change for nationalities if XCIX of 2008 on the promotion and specific employment rules of performing arts organisations were introduced. With regard to the amendment of law, we would seek a solution for the safe, more professional operation of national theatres, so that our theatres can fulfil the required and expected asset and condition system. Thank you for listening. Hvala na pažnji! [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2017-05-04-74	Thank you very much for your speech. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, there is a further statement by its representatives. I give the floor to MEP László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-05-04-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased to be able to speak after the minority advocate, and I would also like to highlight from the nationality side that this bill, which we can see, is acceptable in part of the amendment, because there are directives that can be agreed with. However, as my fellow Member János Halász said, it is also the duty of an opposition representative to draw the government's attention to what is not included in the amendment that we would expect him to be involved. Mr Secretary of State mentioned in his introductory thoughts that he had consulted professional associations and organisations. All of a sudden, I've called two national art associations. None of them received any information as to what kind of amendment there is. They certainly were not included in the circle that should have been included in the conciliation. Therefore, I would ask the Secretary of State, the Government, to carry out a broader consultation when such a amendment is being made. I say this primarily because, as I said, by choosing the leader, I think I do not want to deal with it and make any arguments against it. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, in the line of Roma performers, it is an important thing that organisations are rated, and that is a perfectly good, acceptable direction. That's what I said. Some things are acceptable. However, they have removed the possibility, Mr Secretary of State, for performers to be individually challenged and qualified. This is a very, very big problem, because so far it has been possible to classify them into different categories per artist, and now it is not. However, it would be very important for Roma performers to continue to maintain this system, because if it does not belong to a single art association or organization, it could still be placed in the same category as it could otherwise be. Therefore, we consider it important not only to envisage the classification or classification of artistic associations and organisations, but also to state in this law what is the situation with what has been the case so far, that the category of individual artists themselves, their degree, could have been reached at that time. So the president of the association asked me to mention this, because it is very important that this is no longer an option there. [[15.10]] Moreover, we consider it very important, for example, for Roma theatres and for institutions that define the possibility of integration. Secretary of State, you know that culture is the best way to build a bridge between a majority and a minority or between a minority and a majority. We have very little opportunity to do this in Budapest, but also in rural cities, so that our institutions are well-designed or even developed. For several years now, for several decades, the Roma society in Hungary has been fighting to have a central place in Budapest for Gypsy. It has now been formulated - I know it will be said in your reply that it has been formulated - and money has already been added, but in two years we do not see what has happened with the opportunity you have shown whether there will actually be a central place in Budapest where it can be referred to as the citadel of culture. This is important, I will say it again, because integration is a very important section of the Roma society, and in order to be more accepted by the Gypsies in Hungary, we will not move forward without these citadels. From now on, I think it would also be very important to pay attention to such an amendment, not only in a narrow section, as you mentioned in the introduction, to try to make an amendment, but also in a broader spectrum, because it would have affected the question of how the ratings of individuals, the artistic performers themselves, will happen, or how, in the further part, different cultural institutions could be created that could not only govern gypsy, but also the other twelve minorities, nationality. I would therefore consider it very important, Mr Secretary of State, that these questions, if not in this... - I do not wish to make an amendment, because we have talked to my fellow Member about possibly submitting an amendment, but I think that it may be enough for Mr Secretary of State to address this issue now, so that performers can get on track. Not for the bill, by the way, but let me say two sentences. I was pleased that a tender had been launched so that the various catering facilities could employ Roma performers. Mr State Secretary, there is only one problem with this, and I am sure that I am speaking in the opposition role, namely that this proposal is only written out for Budapest. Secretary of State, there are many places, especially tourist places like Hévíz, Zalakaros or Hajdúszoboszló, which could be classified as other options - why has the countryside been excluded from the possibility of being able to integrate into this proposal? Because if they were serious about helping performers, they would probably have put it in the main places in the country. Or shouldn't have pulled any strings at all, but said, yes, this proposal is done, this bid will be raised or raised a little bit, and from then on anyone in the country will have the opportunity, any catering unit, to employ Roma performers and bands for entertainment. I think that this is definitely incomplete, if you think only in Budapest, you will take the air away from the countryside. Dear Secretary of State, I hope that at the end, you will address my point and give answers not to me, but to the Roma population, as well as to the art associations and bands who have asked the question through me. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I note that no further comments have been made. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Péter Hoppál, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2017-05-04-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the intensive involvement of Members in the debate on the otherwise moderate amendment to our second great law. While I find that most of the speakers left the room after their speech, I would like to respond briefly to what has been said. In the first question raised, in the case of Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, I regret that she has again completed her political homework and has read the horse-zunges written to her, which do not belong here. I would only respond for a moment, and I think that the current government, when it comes to lex Matolcsy, cannot be accused of giving priority salaries, since our government has reduced the salaries that are applicable in the public sector. So before 2010, let's take a look at the salary of the central bank president Simor and weep, my dear fellow opposition Members. So throwing such questions to our government is, at least, uninformed. What I would like to say about the quote from Kunhalmi, which brings alternative theatres to the edge of the stump, is even more unpleasant. I am starting to worry about the MSZP fraction, fellow Members. I'm starting to worry that they've fallen to this degree of professional incompetence. What about the MSZP? Where will they be after 2018 if they can't even get ready in the debate of a law to see what's in the proposal? I consider this to be a refreshing exception to Mr László Teleki, who, after all, made such a statement about one subject that he had demonstrated his readiness. Ágnes Kunhalmi said that it was completely unprepared when it was about putting alternative theatres on the edge, as this amendment, the appointment criteria, is precisely a question relevant to qualified performing art organizations. This issue is not relevant at all for organisations that are not qualified, which are indicated by them as alternative organisations, so it does not fall within the scope, so to speak. As an add-on, since the group of speakers, with the exception of the esteemed ethnic advocates, was most limited to theatrical organizations, I note here that the law is about the entire spectrum of musical, dance and theatre organisations. Thus, all institutions of this type are subject to legislative amendments. The fact that the government decree, a description of the regulatory environment of the government decree that comes into force at the same time, is not general, has been raised and thanked by many. This is how I considered it natural to present a full regulatory environment here in this House. To the sentence that Dóra Dúró, President of the Commission, said in the minutes such a sentence that the Secretary of State was ordinary, I no longer wish to comment. [[Defiance.]] It is very kind of the opposition to estimate with such sentences the work that my colleagues and the work that I have done, because I have presented the government decree; I believe that this was my task. Interestingly, Mr István Ikotity began his speech with nothing to say in an ideal world, and then he talked about another world, and finally about a third world. I understand that the functioning of utopian societies is currently being studied by the Member, but how this belongs to our topic, I have not been able to follow this rapid, repeated association leap, probably because of fatigue and the 14-hour ministry work. I do not know how utopian societies are correlated with the Act of Performing Arts. However, that there is a need for a framework and a framework for legislation in operation, I believe that we all agree on this. In Mr Szabolcs Szabó's very correct speech, I am sorry to rate you, but we have heard the criterion that there is no good regulation and that pleases everyone. I believe that the representatives on both sides of the horseshoe can broadly agree with that. So what everyone will like is probably not going to be on this subject, and thank you for your elegance for mentioning this for the whole decades, so that is not just in the current period. At the same time, the question that has been raised as an alternative in a previous version to have an invitation to tender should appear in the context of the extension currently in force and not subject to the amendment, which is not new on this issue. I must at least refer to our fellow Member, L. Simon László, who has spoken in blogs and in numerous intellectual debates since 2013 or about 12, which you are concerned about, that if a maintenance manager wants to appoint a director to head his institution, he will sooner or later do so, or somehow just tread out the path leading there. So, what's to shape, have a chance for the maintainer not to have to go through this long and complicated structure, which means convening a committee, which means its assessment, the adoption or non-acceptance of the committee's resolution. Thus, a hide-and-seek is mentioned here by both pro-government and opposition representatives, so that a door could open through which the municipality who has a stable opinion can enter and take its opinion. The voters will give their views on his opinion in the next election, as you have said. I think it is a fair position, but at present the government is not in favour of raising this position to the legal level. So we would still keep these frames - good or bad - so that we could sit in the chair of directors of performing arts organisations through an open tender. [[15.20]] With regard to the issues referred to by Mr Alexov Lyubomir: obviously the constitutional provision under which we have an important role to play in the care and care of tangible and intellectual cultural heritage in the area of nationality rights, and we can, of course, agree on that. That their needs have been formulated during this speech, which I have already met several times in committee, is, of course, what we consider to be relevant expectations. At the same time, I thank you for your elegance for mentioning that the system of access to culture has been expanded among national minority institutions by doubling the tendering framework. I think this is a very important first step. And if you can do more, you should appreciate the host theatre in the national capital as a playground. If the conditions for this are outlined and negotiations are concluded with several relevant government actors, I can point out that the Secretary of State for Culture will be pleased to undertake this task, the operation of this possible new task. And then finally, Mr Teleki's suggestion, which was related in a small part to the issue of nationality. He calls for and advocates the expansion of the possibilities of Roma acting and Roma art institutions. Government measures have indeed been taken in this regard. I categorize some very important and highly professional, unrated art organizations outside the theatre, who do very high-quality work. Their support is stable, and even in the last two years it has been able to increase to a minimum this 1.4 billion-dollar tender source, which is set out to be such organisations. Furthermore, I am very pleased to say that the stabilisation of Snétberger's talent or talent-care school, which has reached the edge of the disaster and is nearing the end, and is clearly due to the gestures of our government. I think there's a fantastic saving in that workshop. In the same way, we expect that the possibility of the Cziffra Center will really create the comprehensive and high level of positioning of the Gypsy culture in Hungary, which you rightly expect and ask for. I believe that, since this is the subject of a government decision and a billion-dollar presentation, from national sources, not from EU sources, indeed, which is delayed, it does not depend, we trust that this will come. I'm glad that's -- how do I put this? - in the current period of government. Possibility of running Gypsy bands in catering facilities. When I go to these events and meet musicians, they always say that employment is a problem. But that's another decade of trouble. There is a black economy in this area, because they don't want to pay as much as they want, which is taxing the catering unit, giving it into your pocket, but it's not good for the artist, it's not good for the employer, it's not good for anyone. It's really a ten-to-twenty-year-old problem again. Now, with a sample program, a competition has been launched for organizations and catering units in Budapest. I consider this a first step. You are absolutely right, the tourism sector will demand it. I am sure that for the programme launched by the tourism agency in the Ministry of Development, tourist destination destinations in Budapest and outside the capital, especially in the area of Lake Balaton, but other important international destinations, will join over time. I'm glad he's pushing us a little bit by strengthening the countryside. The Member is asking me in the right place because he knows that, as a Member of Pécs, I am obviously a dedicated servant of cultural decentralisation in the government, and that is why many times I have not only raised my voice, but we have also taken a lot of measures in recent years. So what I'm saying is that we're taking the air away from the countryside, I can't understand that. The way I see it, they took the air from the countryside during socialist governance, and now all the cultural opportunities in the countryside are breathable. Thank you again for your opinion in this debate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-78	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Hoppál. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. And now, Honourable Parliament, we are about to proceed with the general debate of the bill announced by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965 on the publication of an amendment to the Single Drug Convention in New York, dated 30 March 1961, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/15368. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-04-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I do not want to abuse this 30 minutes, especially if Mr President has taken away my bread, because he has actually given me all the relevant information about the proposal. It is simply that an annex to an international treaty was completed in 2016. One new active substance was added to the list of substances I and IV. In Annex I, which means that this active substance, acetylsalicylylfentanyl, has been included in a circle containing the most closely controlled active substances. In this regard, it is only our job in this case, as in every contract, that Parliament has to decide whether to transpose the new element of the treaty into the legal order. I would like to ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Two factions came forward for the general speech. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Szabolcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-04-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The T/15368. We are discussing the proposal for a bill published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965 on the publication of an amendment to the Single Convention on Drugs in New York dated 30 March 1961. The main objective of the establishment of the 1961 Single Drug Convention was to incorporate the provisions of the six international drug conventions introduced in 1912-53 into a single system. In addition, the provisions of the Convention provided a guarantee that medicinal products legally manufactured in the pharmaceutical sector would not be placed on the market illegally. [[15.30]] An important objective of the 1961 Convention was to prevent the production of cannabis and cannabis resin, as well as illegal opium production, and to limit the production of coca leaves for illegal cocaine production. The drug acetylfentanyl was not strictly controlled in Hungary. According to the Convention, Hungary will contribute to bringing this drug into the most heavily controlled category internationally. acetylfentanyl is a medicine used to relieve pain, and studies show that it is 15 times stronger than morphine. It was never approved for medical use, it was only sold as a designer medicine. Side effects with fentanyl analogues include itching, nausea and potentially severe respiratory depression, which may be life-threatening. These compounds have killed hundreds of people worldwide, as they have begun to be re-used and new derivatives have also appeared. Overdose can be treated as an overdose of heroin. In Europe, mainly Germany, Poland, Sweden and the United Kingdom, there were 32 fatal outcomes in consumption between 2013 and 15 years. In Russia, there were 12 victims in 2012, and in the United States there were more than 100 victims in the period 2013-15. The production, trade and distribution of drugs is an activity subject to State authorisation, coupled with very close and continuous public supervision. With this information, we support the strictest control. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-04-83	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik also supports this proposal, as appropriate. I'm not going to surprise you with this comment. Obviously, we also consider it important that such a substance, a substance called acetylfentanyl, should be included in the list to which stricter regulations apply. At the same time, I would also like to use this agenda today to talk for a very short time about the general problems of the drug situation. Just because I feel that this area, this topic, as important as it is for the government to give priority to and deal with it, is so stepchild to the government, and they do not care so much about it. However, there are very big problems, not only on the part of the government in terms of drug policy in general, but also on the part of young people and the distribution of drugs in the world in general, especially with the situation of designer drugs. We know very well that a young person today can order any designer drugs from the Internet in the way they order pizza these days. A few clicks can be ordered from the Internet and will be delivered in a few hours. I just wanted to show you how serious this is, how easy it is for young people today. Compared to that, in Parliament, I don't know when, how many years ago, we last talked about the drug situation, the state of the drug strategy, its implementation and other related issues. In 2013, the House adopted a drug strategy that we supported. At the same time, we must be critical of the fact that the policy programme derived from the drug strategy came to light at the end of December 2015, more than two years later. At the same time, a four-page document summarized various, very important objectives, to which the resources, the financial compliance with which they will be financed, were no longer assigned by the government. So we witnessed a serious delay here. Since then, according to the profession, the overall strategic approach, which the government lacks, has been clear. This can be seen in all areas, it affects everywhere. At the same time, the level of budgetary resources is also a problem that defines this area. As far as budgetary resources are concerned, it may be enough to mention that in 2004 HUF 1.8 billion was spent on prevention, in 2010 less than 1 billion, in 2011 HUF 300 million, in 14 less than HUF 400 million, and in 16 we have now managed to reach a level of HUF 700 million. So we can see that in 12 years the amount to be spent on preventing and tackling the drug problem has decreased from 1.8 billion to 700 million forints, which is a huge setback; despite the growing problem in Hungary today, as I said at the beginning of my speech. At the same time, which is positive, regardless of government, but we are pleased that EFOP applications are at least available and have opened resources that can be used for this purpose. But since I mentioned that there is a lack of a strategic approach here, in most cases, these too are spent ad hoc on the basis of feedback from the professional organisation, and there is no sense of purpose, no preference order, which would determine what are the most important areas to spend these tender funds on, and what are less important. So there is also serious confusion about the spending of these resources. In this connection, it should also be added that these funds cannot be spent on regions like Budapest and Central Hungary, where the problem is the same; in some areas in this region, they are even more prominent than in other parts of the country. Nevertheless, these tender funds cannot be spent here, and we do not really see the government's ambition to compensate for this region, for example. Overall, in this area, we see the most serious problem, with the criticisms of professional organisations, the thoughtful distribution of strategic planning and tender money. In other words, the current situation of the drug strategy, the direction in which we are going, the results that we have achieved, the areas where improvements are still needed, the areas where progress has not been made at all, there is no way to discuss them publicly, either within the framework of Parliament or with professional organisations. I think it is important to replace this and involve as many professional organisations as possible in this area, because they have knowledge that can be useful for government decision-making. What is still a problem and an old problem is the lack of a supply system, the lack of child and youth addiction care and the lack of relevant institutions. In fact, now that we may be able to spend money on this, replacing the old deficiency, the problem arises that these institutions would only be able to function effectively if they were also provided with government guidance and professional guidance that would help them to act in a uniform way and that these institutions could really receive juvenile addicts in an appropriate way. But this kind of...
u2017-05-04-84	We are listening with great, great patience, but I am compelled by the house rules to remind you that there is an amendment of the law here, and that should be the point of your position. That's a lot more than that. So, with all due respect, I would like to ask that you try to end this speech.
u2017-05-04-85	I'm already at the end.
u2017-05-04-86	Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-87	I'm at the end, Mr. Speaker. I thought that, overall, if this item, let's say, takes 10 minutes, then maybe if it's my longer speech for 14 minutes, it's okay, but I respect your request. In any case, as I approach the end of my speech, I will round up what I have to say. [[15.40]] But once again, I would like to draw attention to the importance of the care system and the importance of its functioning in favour of professional guidance to the attention of the government. This is also an area that is very, very important to young people. We see that the government is not paying enough attention here. There is serious work to be done, serious problems, there is still work to be done in this area. I would ask the Secretary of State and the apparatus behind you and the entire government to pay more attention to this area. In itself, this listing was a reason that I wanted to take advantage of to draw attention to these problems, because I think that, in view of the seriousness of the problem, you should pay more attention to this area. Thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-04-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Zoltán Gustáv Ónodi-Szűcs: For closing only.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-04-89	Thank you for the floor. I understand your concern, and thank you. Obviously, it is strange that we have to talk about this in connection with a law, but I would like to reflect on only two points. One: I think you have understood well, Mr President, that, in recent times, the application of prevention has been implemented in a different structure, these are the EFIs that you have thought of, which you could apply for with money from EFOP. They started to work, obviously primarily in the countryside, which had the opportunity to take action in terms of what was the most important preventive activity for the population concerned. Accordingly, I think that what is preference was decided when they applied for it in the evaluation of applications. The examiner was able to decide what is preference and what is less important. I think it's totally okay. I think it is also very clear to everyone that, in the past period, there has been an inflow of money in the healthcare sector from which neither the subject of addiction nor the subject of psychiatry has been withdrawn. Obviously, this government was able to make progress. I think it is also very important to clarify that health policy does not want to create health in that respect, or does not want to interfere with the profession, we want to implement the recommendations of the professional college only. I don't remember a case where the Secretary of State wanted to rape any of the professional college's decisions, and I'd like to keep it to myself. By the way, thank you for your concern, and I would like to ask you to support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Now, Honourable Parliament, we now have the XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and the management of guardianship. General discussion of the bill on strengthening the system of child protection and amending other laws until closure. Government referral T/15378. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-04-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, A series of measures to make social and child welfare services more transparent, efficient, effective and fairer the supply system, launched in previous years, will now continue with this proposal in order to provide more targeted services and quality services in order to modernise and improve the social sector. To this end, this bill will now be amended by the Child Protection Act, on the one hand, and the Social Law, on the other, and together with these laws, by numerically six laws will be affected by this proposal. In addition to the two laws mentioned above, the Family Support Act, the National Public Education Act, the Criminal Code and the Elisabeth Programme Act are also covered in this package. Please allow the substance of the proposal to be explained and described. The first major element of this proposal is the amendment of the social law. In the area of social services, the bill simplifies the regulation of eligibility for public funding to reduce administrative burdens and, where appropriate, facilitate access to aid. The new system of capacity regulation was introduced in 2012 in order to act as a fair service system that responds to real needs in the service system, based on a more efficient allocation of capacity, thereby reducing significant territorial differences and improving access opportunities, in fact providing the necessary assistance to everyone who is eligible and needs it. Since the introduction of capacity regulation, new services created by local government maintainers and new capacities created by enlargement have been subject to reception in the financing system, the services under the mandatory tasks of the local government have been accepted in all cases, regardless of the available capacities, but in the case of voluntary municipal tasks, reception could be obtained on the basis of a joint decision of the Minister of Human Resources and the Minister of National Economy. However, so far, the practice has shown that most of these applications were considered positive and accepted in the case of municipal reception and capacity acceptance requests. In order to ensure that the local government maintainers are entitled to the reception procedure without the need for time, since in many cases they are responsible for the supply and are dependent on care, it is important that they do not have to wait for this time, be entitled to state aid, be able to expand capacity, if required, the bill exempts municipal maintainers from the reception obligation if the State aid for the service concerned is provided under Article IX of the Budget Act. It's coming from chapter 1. The other group refers to the ecclesiastical institutions of reception, regulatory mitigation, as the government is committed to strengthening the partnership of churches and the active involvement of churches in this area, especially in the field of professional care, in the area of residential institutions. The Government has already decided that additional resources should be provided in connection with the transfer of certain social institutions in the state reserve to churches, so that there is no justification for bringing these institutions into the financing system, so the proposal states that this is also a relief from the previous strict capacity acceptance procedure, so that the proposal removes this category from the admission obligation. There is a third circle of mitigation beyond municipal and ecclesiastical maintainers, and these are cases that, based on previous practice, seemed to simplify and reduce bureaucracy. These are when the proposal sets a time limit for the administration of individual requests for fairness in accordance with the rules of the General Administrative Regulation; in addition to the maintenance change, it also provides for the possibility of receiving individual capacities if there is no additional budgetary expenditure; thirdly, in the case of support services and community care, it allows, if the transfer does not involve a change in the supply area, reception, regardless of capacity. [[15.50]] Finally, the proposal clarifies that, in the case of the conversion of high-level seats to average-level seats, especially for the elderly, reception should only take place under specific ministerial powers. This is therefore the capacity acceptance part. Next up, cases involving the homeless. An important element of plans and measures for the homeless is that no one is forced to spend the night on public property. In order to achieve this goal, the government has taken complex measures over the past period, making services more efficient, and measures have also affected legislation, funding and development programmes. This has, for example, been the way to clarify the work to be done on the care of people at risk, as well as the scope of organisations that are obliged to cooperate. This is how the possibility of creating extravagant seats in homelessness has been defined and launched, so that homeless people who do not need intensive social assistance, but who do not yet have the ability to achieve and maintain a market-type housing facility from their own resources. Homeless people have been set up with integration, reintegration and resocialisation programmes from domestic and EU sources, and the first event has also been launched, at least we have announced that people living on the streets can move directly to independent, autonomous housing conditions, where a team of professionals assists their rehabilitation. This bill is now taking a further step: it is the introduction of the institution of the code red. This is a new measure, but it fits with the series of measures that have been taken so far, as the crisis provision of homeless people in public areas is becoming even more targeted. The red code is a special warning designed to draw attention in critical weather situations, the attention of the members of the social care system that the main task of assisting is to protect life. During the period of the red code, in order to protect life, the institutions are obliged to welcome the homeless person, regardless of the type of service they have registered, the number of seats and the area of supply, in cooperation with street social workers and street social services and regional dispatch centres. Social institutions must prepare for the reception of people on the street in the event of the release of the red code during the most critical period, but according to a defined protocol. On the one hand, the host institution informs the regional dispatch centre of territorial competence of how many people it can receive at the same time, taking in on a particularly hard night - as it was in January, let us say this year - and at the same time designates the institutional contact point. It is primarily the responsibility of homeless establishments to cover the people living on the streets at the time of the release of a red code. So there is no order of order, there is a sequence, in terms of institutional service types it is always for the first time the job of the homeless system and the support system for the homeless, so it must be done here in the first place. Other types of boarding facilities can only be used if the type of needs in homelessness, the type of need cannot be managed, and cannot be solved within the homelessness care. Admission to the boarding facility can only be done through the regional dispatch service, as it coordinates demand and supply on a daily basis, sees the capacity and sees the need, and can only be used through it. During the period of the red code, social institutions should be able to accept to the extent necessary to protect the life and physical integrity of the homeless person. At a later date, the Minister will issue the specific detailed procedure and protocol on how to implement this on the sectoral portal, which will provide the information and professional development background of the profession, but will live according to our plans in the next crisis period. The next element of the bill is that the system of training of social, child welfare, child protection managers, institutional leaders and persons with executive mandates will be transformed from January 2018, and a training system will be established to ensure the continuous professional renewal of managers, conscious, effective management, leadership, and skills development. This is a new system of leadership training. This system prepares sectoral leaders to be able to interpret their own leadership role and the work of the institutions and services they manage in a systemic way, and to acquire modern knowledge for the management of professional tasks in the current legislative environment. In the new training system, of course, management training will be required, as there will be two levels of management training, participation in basic management training or master management training, and renewal training at later specified intervals. At the same time as the establishment of the new system, the basic social and vocational education system will be terminated. In order to facilitate the use of rehabilitation benefits, to standardise investigations and to reduce red tape, the bill abolishes rehabilitation fitness testing prior to rehabilitation treatment, instead, in the case of rehabilitation care for persons with disabilities, a basic examination should be carried out to determine whether the person being subject to boarding care and whether the care is adequate for him; in the case of the other target groups, no consideration will be carried out at all as a condition of cost. Instead of carrying out a rehabilitation fitness test, the completion of a basic examination strengthens the professional efforts of rehabilitation institutions and subsidised housing providers to cooperate more closely, taking into account the substitution programme of large institutions. This is why it is important that the cost rules for the two forms of supply are in line with each other. There is another important part in the amendment of the social law: the bill changes the concept of income in terms of cash and natural social benefits in order not to take into account income that does not substantially affect the income position of the customer. The larger part of the package is the amendment of the Child Protection Act. The government is committed to helping families in crisis. From this point of view, temporary homes are one of the most important means of creating a home for homelessness and offering a chance at a lack of hope and a lack of prospects. It is important that families do not get stuck in the CSAOs, i.e. in the temporary homes of families or in nursing homes - there are several names. This is an old idea and goal, so that families do not get stuck for years, and families do not migrate between the institutions, but we try to use all means to encourage service providers to resocialise, to leave the institutional world. From 1 January 2018 it will be possible to create extra space in the temporary homes of families, which will strengthen this resocialisation direction and allow for more successful deployment and reintegration of those in care. The external space provides preferential housing and less intensive social work compared to institutional care. The bill also sets out additional rules on external space, according to which the number of external seats should be no more than 50 per cent of the number of temporary homes for families and, in order to encourage the creation of external seats, these seats should be exempted from the reception obligation. So it will be possible to expand capacity here, because this is very necessary. [[16.00]] Under the current rules, institutions with a capacity of between 12 and 40 persons, as defined by the Child Protection Act, and their temporary homes and related facilities, operate in houses and apartments under 12 persons. According to our records, there are 46 such institutions at national level, which are smaller than 12 seats. In view of the establishment of external spaces, these small institutions should be located in this new system. In the case of existing institutions, the proposal provides for a transitional period for the maintenance staff to plan a future form of operation. They can continue to function as part of a temporary home for institutions or families with fewer than 12 seats, so they can either continue to function as part of the institutions or can be converted into an external accommodation. According to its maintenance decision, after 15 November 2017, such seats can only be created as an external space. The system, which is built on the basis of the amendment, also facilitates more efficient management of professional staff and resources. In order to help this process, we have announced a standard tender with a HUF 3.8 billion budget in the last few weeks, which is scheduled for the modernisation of transitional and rehabilitation institutions, including the establishment of external seats. The proposed legislation will continue to strengthen the rights of children to protection guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, in which strong, important and significant measures have been taken in recent years. On the one hand, the renewal and replacement process of the children's homes will be completed in the Hungarian child protection system by 19th and 2019, with an additional HUF 4.2 billion being spent by the government. The government would like to break off with the idea of child protection inherited from the time of socialism, that the solution for children of their families in child protection care is to create a separate, separate society, somewhere away from society and the local community, and to live there in isolation. One of the important lessons learned from the large cases of child protection and child abuse in the past period is the need for uniform protocols and uniform procedures to investigate, deal with such cases. In all these cases, maintenance investigations, institutional internal investigations, out-of-court official controls have been carried out, and in addition, the speed and professionality of the institutional internal investigation has made it unnecessary to order further investigations, but in other cases repeated or additional tests have had to be carried out at different levels or at the same level. The bill therefore states that the right to protection against child abuse is an absolute right and that, in order to enforce it, it should be based on a uniform methodology and protocol approved by the Minister for Child Protection in the future to investigate and manage cases of child protection specialist care in the institution, correctional institution. The amendment in the interest of children provided is also to allow child protection guardians and child rights representatives to contact the child in a private, trusting atmosphere at the child's place of care at any time, and to talk to him, which the head of the children's home and the foster parent are obliged to provide. The investigation of child abuse cases has often been initiated by child protection guardians in the identified cases, thus reducing the visibility, but the studies conducted have found that there are restrictive institutional practices. With this amendment, we want to make it clear that the child's place of care, whether it is a foster parent or a child's home or a child's home manager, is obliged to ensure that the child's representative and the guardian and guardian of interest can meet and speak to the child in private at the time they determine. The competence, preparedness and competence of professionals and foster parents working in child protection care and in correctional institutions are also guaranteed for the care of the children entrusted to them, and therefore this proposal empowers the operator of the foster care network to obtain further information when choosing the foster parent and to authorise the appointment and assignment of the managers of child protection specialist care institutions and correctional institutions for a more thorough examination of the suitability of the relevant professionals. With all this information, it is possible to make more informed decisions on executive appointments, mandates and repetitions, which are also in the best interests of the child with whom it is provided, and to make use of it in the case of a repeated management appointment. Another important lesson to learn from the Bicske case, for example, is the need to act quickly with victim protection and service and to protect children from further damage, so the bill puts them among the tasks of the dots, regional child protection services, names the task previously unnamed, the victim protection task, which is most effective when a mobile team, victim protection team is created with invited professionals and psychologists. In addition to the treatment of child trauma, it is appropriate to provide support for other children concerned and professionals in the direct care of children in the context of crisis management. This is particularly justified if more than one child becomes a victim at the same time and if a child's becoming a victim has a significant impact on more than one child. According to the bill, a young adult in higher education receiving post-care care can complete his higher education studies with greater certainty until the age of 30 at the latest by extending the care, which is decided upon by the maintainer at the request of the young adult concerned. This is, therefore, an amendment to the Social and Child Protection Act. Next, I will speak briefly about the amendment of further laws. On the one hand, the amendment of the Public Education Act relates to the strengthening of the signalling system. In 2016, a multi-level child welfare warning system was established, in line with the adapted family support and child welfare services, and the child protection detection and signalling system was strengthened, its legal background, protocols, methodological recommendations and their publication. In order to enforce child rights, the Child Protection Act provides for a child protection detection and signalling system, one of the most important elements of which is the teacher, the educator and the educational institution. The Child Protection Act sets out a clear obligation for all members of the child protection system, and states that if, in the course of their activities, the members of the signalling system possess information referring to the child's risk, neglect or abuse, they are obliged to inform the provider of the child welfare service without weighing on it. Furthermore, in a situation which seriously endangers the child's life or physical integrity, they shall immediately initiate official measures. We thought, and all the professional comments and proposals concerned, that the signalling system would be more effective if the obligation to do so was not only reflected in the Child Protection Act but also in our own sectoral legislation, both for teachers and doctors, and for the two highly affected professions. That is what this proposal is about. The Btk. The amendment also constitutes another step in the development of child-friendly justice, making it compulsory to consider the prohibition of the perpetrator of a crime against children, against the freedom of sex and against sexual morality, and the endangerment of a minor from an occupation in which he would be in charge of the education, supervision, care, treatment of a person under 18 years of age, or other power and influence of such a person. [[Dezső the gullible will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] [[16.10]] The Constitutional Court 13/02. In its resolution, the Commission expressed its view that, in addition to the legislator's discretion in determining the level of the penalty, the possibility of judicial consideration had a constitutional value and therefore had a role to protect. Individualised punishment and, through it, the implementation of preventive punishment targets that can be constitutionally justified can only actually be achieved through this. We continue to show zero tolerance to sexual crimes against vulnerable children. And there are two other amendments to the law. One is the amendment of the Family Support Act, in which the personal scope is added. I think this is a very important amendment, a change of national strategic importance, with children born abroad with Hungarian citizenship in terms of maternity support. The other amendment is an amendment to the Act on the Erzsébet Programme, which states that the extent and conditions of the state support of the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin are determined by an agreement between the State and the Foundation, which must be renewed every five years. Thank you very much for your attention. I would like to ask for the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-92	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Czibere. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-04-93	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we would like to welcome the legislative amendment package that is now in front of the Parliament's plenum. Mr Secretary of State reported very carefully and in detail on the progress made in the area of the social institution, the social care system and the protection of children. Mr Secretary of State has set the objectives, and we agree with them. In the area of social institutions, of course, we agree with the aim of ensuring that the functioning of the social institution system is as efficient, as quickly as possible, as transparent as possible. And, of course, we also agree that we should never sit back in the area of child protection. We have also managed to move forward with the strengthening of the Child Protection Institutional System, including the signalling system, and increasing efficiency. These are not commonplaces, because behind these institutional systems are individuals who are either minors and therefore vulnerable, or who are socially dependent, vulnerable, and these institutional systems perform an extremely important task, since the fate of one person depends on what work is done there on the one hand, and on how much attention we legislators and law enforcement pay, how they try to improve and strengthen these institutional systems year after year, month after month. So, Mr Secretary of State, we welcome these amendments, which we have now heard a very detailed and thorough report here before the Parliament's plenum. Allow me not to go further in that order, but to begin first with the part of the bill that concerns the protection of children and the administration of guardians. We agree with the aim and agree with the amendment, which is about the changes to the design of the external seats operated by the family's temporary home. This is an extremely important task for Parliament and the institutional system to ensure that families who live in temporary homes are able to get these people out as soon as possible and as successfully as possible - in a technical way - to the established external seats. Mr State Secretary mentioned that from 1 January 2018, care for families who are able to live and support themselves will be ensured. We have also heard that the external space is a reduced housing and provides families with less intensive social work than institutional care. This will be a very important step forward. In the current Child Protection Act, under current rules, the temporary homes of families with a fixed number of seats between 12 and 40 persons, and the associated small establishments are located in houses and apartments under 12 persons. And according to the data of the service record, we have learned that there are 46 institutions of less than 12 seats at national level. These institutions with fewer than 12 seats may continue to function as part of a temporary home for families, or may be converted into an external seat at the discretion of the maintainer. Allow me, in the second point, to talk about and provide our support to the Government and the State Secretariat to strengthen the establishment of a common organisational, maintenance and sectoral management methodology and the introduction of this mandatory application in child protection specialised care institutions. A very important step has already been taken here, as, at the end of last year, with my fellow Member László Horváth in an independent amendment of the law, we have already made it mandatory, with the support of many of my opposition fellow Members, to apply a methodology to the members of the signalling system; everyone knows exactly, clearly, what his task is, and we have already foreseen that the Minister should post it on the Ministry's website, and that the members of the signalling system should be informed of what this task will be exactly mandatory. This is now a next step in this legislative amendment, and the Secretary of State has said in detail that it is very important and important to learn from the cases of child abuse over the past period that, in order to investigate and deal with such cases, we need this certain uniform institutional maintenance and sectoral governance methodology, so it must be created, it is mandatory to apply this, and we will obviously keep ourselves to this, because by the power of the law, this standard is in place. We also expect this to result in a much better detection and treatment of child abuse against minors, or children's harm, and will be much more effective, and we expect the number of these cases to be reduced. It is also very important that it is stated in the law that the actors in sector management and/or child protection care provide the public with information on the occurrence of the child abuse case, the investigations ordered according to protocol, the state of the investigations, the outcome and the consequences. By communicating in this way, it will be a signal to child protection professionals, children and young adults alike, that children's and students' abuse in child protection institutions and correctional institutions will be fully discovered and sanctioned. It is very important that everyone, society and those involved, and those working in this sector, know about this. We hope that this will also help us move forward in what we have said, that the number of these cases may be reduced, that they will be revealed sooner, that they will be more professionally explored, and that the range of measures on child abuse will become much more coordinated, and that communication on this matter will become more coordinated. [[16.20]] And we dare hope that it can be avoided that child abuse cases should have such tabloid negative press appearances, and that when a case comes into the press that raises an unconfirmed suspicion, we will eliminate the fact that there is a systemic failure to arrive at the wrong conclusion. I mean, there was a case where someone was accused completely wrongfully, but the sensation was already there, excited. Here, too, people's lives, professions, careers can be ruined, just from the other side. We'd like to avoid that, too. In the third point, let me say a few agreeable words and sentences about ensuring a peaceful relationship between the child's guardian and the child's representative with the child. We agree with the content of the amendment. Of course, everyone knows that when the child is present at such a hearing, the caregiver can fundamentally influence the minor, the child, on what to say. We therefore support the possibility for the child to be contacted in private by the child's guardian and the child's representative at any time when the child's guardian decides that he needs it. We agree that the law requires this private conversation, meeting to be ensured by law. Mr Secretary of State said that this amendment also concerns the Criminal Code. Here in the Expo, we have heard that this is a step towards another step in the development of child-friendly justice, and in order to do so, this proposal makes it compulsory to consider the prohibition of the perpetrator of a criminal offence against the freedom of sex and sexual morality of children from an occupation in which he or she would raise, supervise, care and treat a person under the age of 18 or otherwise be in a position of authority or influence. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, we'd suggest a tightening up. Personally, I would also like to ask you to consider that if the court, the judge, takes a conviction decision and finds someone guilty of a sexually assaulted crime of a minor, you will have to be punished as a punishment, so that the judge will also pronounce a decision prohibiting you from engaging in the occupation. So if a person is found guilty of committing a sexually-related crime against a minor, he should not go back to a job where he will deal with children as a punishment. Of course, there is an opportunity under the Criminal Procedure Act to review this punishment every ten years, so the sentenced person can take the opportunity to request a review of this punishment, so he has the opportunity to change the penalty in court. There would be such an opportunity every ten years, according to our amendment. I would ask the State Secretary to consider it, and I would also ask my fellow Members to consider it. Since let's be honest, as politicians, we are saying this here, not as professionals and not as lawyers, it is most likely that if someone commits such a crime, he will commit this crime again if he comes near minors and children. This would be one of the amendments we would like to make to this and we would like to tighten it up in the draft law and the law in order to protect children. The other amendment, which we would like to present, concerns the appointment of the leaders of social institutions. We agree that before appointing the head of the social institution by the competent authority, ministry, ask the previous employer for the opinion and it is listed in the draft law that everyone should be consulted before the person is appointed to the head of the social institution. It is therefore a matter of asking for an opinion from many people, such as the previous employer, in the case of a person appointed to head the social institution. We would propose that the local government also seek the opinion of the appointing authority in the case of re-election before it is appointed to the head of the institution. In the first case, it should not be, because someone may come from the other side of the country and apply for the position of head of the social institution, so they may not know the person yet in the local government, but it is likely that at re-enlistment, it would be worth asking the local government's opinion on how they have worked in recent years, what experience, what opinion they form about it. The bill concerns a lot of points. We therefore agree with the bill and welcome it, thank you very much for coming to Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-04-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-04-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We are here for the longest time in Parliament on the amendment of the Child Protection Act. The last time we had a pretty ember debate, we amended the Child Protection Act in the case of child abuse in Gyöngyös and Agard. I would like to draw attention here - because Mr Secretary of State has repeatedly referred to it - to the shame that the sentence has been reduced in the second instance on this matter. We can argue here in Parliament and amend the Child Protection Act every month if we do not acknowledge that the signalling system is not working well. In front of me, Commissioner and Secretary of State spoke a great deal about the signalling system, the protection of children, the sexual violence and abuse of children. I would like to point out that this is what ratification of the Istanbul Convention is about. It would be nice if we could finally make a move on this case. Confirmation of the signalling system... - to discuss the development of a uniform methodology. Mr. Secretary. Just because we introduce a methodology doesn't mean that the cases are gonna go away doesn't mean that the abuse is gonna stop. What will change if a methodology is introduced and these cases continue to take place, and the court will reduce the sentence at second instance? The reasons for this are as follows: "The grounds have been noted, the court imposed the maximum penalty, but in the second instance, the limitation of the defendants was taken into account. In the opinion of the doctor, the parents were obsessed with a healthy meal and therefore their consciousness was impaired, so they eased the punishment. I don't care if they've narrowed their minds or not, that child died, that child died in front of the supply system. The next point, the congresswoman, has also said that in the future, the representative of the child rights will be entitled to meet children personally without the presence of the head of the child welfare and child protection service provider or of his staff, including the foster family, at the time he or she initiates it, and this will also be possible for the child protection guardian to do so. Mr Secretary of State referred to the fact that the number of cases detected in the Bicske children's home has increased and it is necessary to introduce this measure. [[16.30]] That's the only way I make questions. How hard is it gonna be for the kids? How well do you know, what is the experience now, of child protection guardians for children? 'Cause what we always see in cases is that these kids are really locked up. Plus, how much does it help or how successful can it be? Before the appointment, assignment and re-election of the head of the foster family network and the head of the children's home, it will be up to the holder of the power of appointment to verify that the person concerned is fit to lead. Well, that's what the competition is about. That's what it's all about. Isn't that right, Mr. Secretary? You can ask the previous employer what his attitude toward children has been. What if he didn't have a previous employer because it's his first application? We're talking about things that real life lies about. The law continues by introducing the same mechanism for foster parents. Who's being asked in foster care? The neighbor? Who's gonna let them know he's qualified? Shouldn't you have done a bigger investigation, Mr. Secretary? I don't know if Mr. Secretary of State knows that there are many people in the country who are foster parents for a living, and there are children in slavery. I could list settlements from my own district. They bring out children for a living, and under such circumstances! I wouldn't trust my dog to a lot of foster parents. I'm sorry, let alone raise a child. We should get ahead of him. But who are you going to collect information from, Secretary of State? With regard to the temporary home for families, a very limited deadline is set here to transform these 46 institutions, 15 November, if I recall correctly, into the required framework. Can these institutions do it by 15 November? Can they be prepared for that? Mr Secretary of State refers to the law that we are talking about institutions of less than 12 seats at 46 institutions. What's wrong with having less than 12 seats? Isn't it better that it's smaller? I'm just asking questions, Mr. Secretary. Isn't it better to have as many adults as possible with fewer children so that they can pay as much attention as possible? I don't think these 46 institutions would be the right place for the government to turn a blind eye. The new activity of the regional child protection specialist service is the introduction of a crisis management service in the event of multiple child victims or a significant impact of the child's victimisation on more than one child, in order to address the trauma of children and support the activities of care professionals. I would like a little Secretary of State to return to what these crises are. I'm returning to the Istanbul convention again. We could also solve a lot of things by ratifying the Istanbul Convention, ensuring the budget. Won't it mean that extra burdens will be added to the supply system, that no source will be provided? Besides, in this child welfare system, in the protective network, in the pediatric network or in the pedagogues, we can see it very well, there is a growing shortage of professionals. Will there be an extra person, Mr. Secretary, or is it just a story that we want to put more burdens on these people, the already incomplete team of professionals? Amendment of the Criminal Code. Madam Congresswoman has left out a very important sentence from this law, but I will read it because it must be heard:. The current Btk. regulates the imposition of penalties for the prohibition of employment only as an option, which may be applied depending on the judgment of the court. However, in order to protect children more closely, it is appropriate to provide, in principle, for those offenders who have committed sexually-based and sexually-based crimes or the endangerment of a minor to harm children, to prohibit employment in which they are raising, supervising, caring for, treating or other power or influence with such persons. And then comes the most interesting sentence:. In order to maintain the possibility of judicial consideration, the bill provides for an exception to this rule, particularly in cases of appreciation. What's the exception, Mr. Secretary? What are we talking about? Except for the judge in Derek? The head of the Bicske Children's Home, who was decorated on August 20 by Minister Zoltán Balog? Mr. Secretary, if we're going to tighten it up, let's not put in a half-phrase except that. What can be considered when children are abused sexually or in any way, especially in an institution? ! And we could now bring up the case in the Göd, which just started yesterday, that people with disabilities... and I would like you to talk about that, too, Mr. Secretary, because I read today the statement that the EMMI has launched an investigation. How can this happen? We are talking about 40,000 people with disabilities, and here, as the report says, we are also talking about three-year-old children who are in the institution. How can such conditions occur in residential institutions in Hungary today? Who is responsible, Mr. Secretary? How can a foreign organization only reveal this abuse? Or at all, Mr. Secretary, is there an abuse? It would be nice if you could say, Mr. Secretary, no. Amendment of the Social Administration and Social Benefits Act. According to the amendment concerning the support of active persons, entitlement to benefits will cease if the suspension persists for a period of one year, so that the client is not provided for a year, because he is constantly engaged in public employment and training. According to the explanatory statement, after a period of one year, it may be assumed that the customer no longer wishes to receive the benefit. Mr. Secretary, that's not true. Not the client does not wish to use the care, but the law is respected by the client and the procedure must be resumed afterwards. Let's not put these people through this. Let's say he's on community service for eight months, and then, according to the law, to get away from benefits, he goes to a training program, he doesn't want him to drop out of care. Let's not cripple this layer any more. Homelessness, Mr. Secretary, code red. Well, I'd say it would be better if we put orange code in this law. Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask here how we stand with the European Union programme, which would specifically improve this situation. We are talking about HUF 34 billion; homelessness, care for children, severely endangered, disadvantaged children and elderly people. The government hasn't been able to start this program in two years. We shouldn't be here telling the law which one it is. Mr Secretary of State has said a sentence that they want to strengthen relations with the ecclesiastical institutions. Come on, Mr. Secretary. But how are they gonna solve homeless care, so if you have to call dispatchers, and while you're on the phone with dispatchers, maybe the homeless guy dies? I would like to ask you one more question: what about the people who get cold in their own apartment? What does the government think of that? We see from the data that the government has not been successful in its activities in recent years because we see unprecedented data. Plus, the data is fake, because it doesn't have those data where, say, people get pneumonia in case of cold, they get into the hospital. It is no longer a cold, but its consequence is registered as dying of pneumonia, and it is not a concept of cold. The establishment of specialised care centres. We were here last year for a debate. A year has passed, Mr Secretary of State, when we talk about the fact that, in hospitals, basically, the shelters will be abolished and transferred to a social care system. What happened in a year, Mr. Secretary? Here's the amendment again. Then we see that it is almost nothing, but we are amending the law again, like when I talk about the Child Protection Act. The Family Support Act. I thought Mr. Secretary of State would explain this a little bit more. Excuse me, if I don't get to the bottom of this, I'll make another 15-minute comment. It will be a strategic step, extending the scope of the law to children born abroad with Hungarian nationality in terms of maternity support. I know I'm gonna get it, maybe I was on the poster in 2004 against dual citizenship. You know, Mr. Secretary, over the years, you've proven that all you people need is a vote. [[16.40]] I could say that the HUF 68,000 maternity allowance is okay, let's give it to them, now they're citizens. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State: will the same conditions apply to Hungarian mothers abroad as to Hungarian mothers? Or we will make an exception to them, as in the vote, that they can vote by letter, but those who work abroad are Hungarians, right? Because in order to receive maternity support, it is necessary to meet the criteria of a mother living in Hungary. It's prescribed how many times she has to show up at a gynecologist and how many times she's a protective woman. Will this be expected in the circle of the now introduced extension? And I'd like to ask you, how are you going to verify that, Mr. Secretary? Because let's be honest, we hear from the news that a lot of people have received citizenship - about 800,000 now - who have nothing to do with Hungarians. How will this be checked to see whether it has happened or whether the same legislation will apply to this support to people living in other countries? In the amendment of the National Public Education Act, my fellow Member also said that the same applies to discussions with members of the Child Protection Warning System, where the signalling system also applies to those working in educational institutions, teachers, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are talking again about the Istanbul Convention, and that the Istanbul Convention would solve a lot of things. By doing so, they acknowledge that the warning system is not working, and that you have stopped the employment of youth professionals in schools a few years ago. The law said then that there was an opportunity for municipalities to have the resources to employ these people, and from this year I knew that they would refinance it. Secretary of State, we should not have stopped the application of these professionals. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-04-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. KDNP hasn't responded. Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-04-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, While there are things in the law that should be appreciated, I believe that my duty as opposition politician is now to ask my concerns and questions about the areas of concern and question. I try to follow the order of the law, so sometimes the various comments on the subject may be exchanged in objects. The first is the question of code red, which has already come up. How will this be validated? Because you can see from the law, and what you said, Secretary of State, that through crisis centers, through dispatch service, the organization of the whole thing, the conduct of it. So it won't be that a homeless person who feels like he's about to freeze, can go in, and there they're obliged to provide him with care. Let's just say this is the better case, but my question is how this is gonna work. We know very well that the coverage of street social work is not national because of the population criteria. In places where there is usually street social work, it can be made clear to the dispatch service or crisis centre that people in the red code are in a life-threatening state, so in places where the street service is used, homeless establishments usually have a number of seats that a situation caused by a red code can not cause a problem that they cannot accept homeless people in distress with an increased number of crisis spaces and those at risk of getting cold. This can cause problems in places that are smaller settlements, smaller cities, where the number of seats is not such that they can be accepted by these institutions. But people don't get involved there because there's no street service, there's no connection between the crisis center, dispatch service and homeless people. This could be a problem in these areas, and to eliminate this, it might be worth figuring out something technical. The other subject I would like to talk about is the appointment of a leader or the extension of his status. I worked in the public sector, I worked in social institutions, as Secretary of State you know very well, there was a saying. And this saying - a bit of a joke - was said that the good colleague not only promises but keeps promises. If this saying is taken into account, then it can be enveloped that often the malice and the death of the neighbor's cow can be called up, or for some reason this man once looked at me badly, then in my report before the appointment of the leaders, I can even write things that may prevent this person from being appointed as a leader, even in relation to his relationship with children, which is quite subjective and not rational. Not to mention the prestige and status of the leader. I think that we should not put in such a life situation a pre-appointing leader or a pre-extension leader, so that people can be put at a disadvantage even on the basis of subjective opinions. This proposal, which we have tabled in the form of an amendment, is also linked to what we have already said about the long-awaited social career model, that if this is to be introduced in life, it must not only be based on the multiplication of a simple degree, positional and passed years, but also on the introduction of a quality assurance system. And if the quality assurance system was finally properly introduced in the social care system, then these problems could be eliminated. Then we do not make very serious decisions on the basis of a subjective opinion, whether to appoint someone to the head of an institution or not to appoint them to the head of an institution, but we can make the right decisions on the basis of the results of a repeated annual quality assurance examination. And of course, the Ministry responsible for the sector would be responsible for this and its task would be to develop the protocol, to develop the point system, and if this were to happen precisely, such requests for opinions would become unnecessary. Based on the existing materials, in fact on the basis of the summation of the work carried out, those competent in the appointment could make an appropriate and adequate and secure decision, and on this basis it is more secure and envelopable that the appropriate person, under whose leadership no abuse occurs, will be placed in the chair of a particular institution. A similar issue is also the issue of fitness in the situation of foster parents, including in the employment of foster parents. What you have described in this proposal is very good, but if we consider the current state of affairs, then we say that it is like if a member of the tribe living in the autumn of the Amazon wishes to pursue a life-style like the American citizen living in downtown New York. What are the conditions in Hungary today? Today, there are conditions in Hungary that many providers are responsible for coordinating and managing the foster care service. He also did not have to travel from one side of the country to the other, that someone had not been dismissed because of inadequacy, but that he had been removed from his status, that foster child had been taken away from him, and that foster child had been taken away from him in a county, three suppliers away, and that he had been admitted as a foster parent and had been given a child in the next month. As long as there are such conditions today, it is very difficult to cross over to this state that we will have the reports and that the provider who employs the foster parent can make an objective decision. I believe that, even at a legislative level, a much more circumstantial and more precise system of criteria and suitability for foster parents should be developed. And let us not forget the responsibility of giving institutionalized foster children to parents, or to people or foster parents, who, if they close their doors, do not know what is happening inside the apartment. And if something happens inside the apartment, it's only gonna come out in hindsight, and it's a lot of people's responsibility, and it could have very serious consequences. So once again, this condition can be achieved if a much more precise and much more detailed definition is made of how a foster parent is qualified to perform the given task and on what basis it is not. My opposition colleague has already asked me about this, but I would also like to ask the crisis management service of the child protection services whether this entails an additional source for child welfare centres, what additional resources it entails, what additional human resources it may involve, what additional specialist it will be to be hired to carry out this task. [[16.50]] Because it does not happen every day like a bus accident in Italy, thank God it happens very rarely, but every day there are crises, whether in educational institutions or in children's institutions or in everyday life, which can occur as a crisis, and which would also require a specialist to resolve. This can not only be an accident, but also a natural disaster, or any crisis affecting the settlement, which affects the minds of children and their thinking. The fact is that this service is necessary, not only because of the great tragedies, but also because of the small tragedies, the only question is whether the proper money and steed will be available. I continue with one of the most outrageous things for me, and this is the situation of sexual offenders who harm minors and those who have been convicted of a crime by endangering a minor. They've done this law very strangely. It reminds me of a King Matthias story that I didn't give it to him, or I'd say I gave it to him with one hand and I took it with the other. What is the passage about which this amendment amends? There it is conditional to prohibit it, so you have the opportunity to prohibit it from exercising the task, but it does not include that last sentence. So they made an amendment in which they didn't actually add any extra weight to this measure, it remained in the same condition as it was, because the fact that it forbids it is in conditional mode means the same thing as if it was in declared mode, but there's the last sentence next to it. I understand that there is judicial freedom, three pillars, and the rest, and I know that this is what this is about, there is only an international precedent that this can be done, and even in Hungarian legislation, there is one that limits the judicial power at this level. I believe that this amendment is actually neutered. I also tabled an amendment to get this sentence out of it. I didn't give my child a slap, or I forgot to give him his lunch for a day, but what's a crime and a final sentence - I didn't find anything in these cases, and I also did a mini opinion poll in the last two days, and I asked at least 40 people in the last two days, and no one could list a single reason that would require special appreciation for the perpetrators of this type of crime, so that we later let him into a group of 12 people, behind closed doors, doing everyday activities with these children under his supervision and under his responsibility. So that doesn't make sense. I would very much ask you to accept my amendment, and this particular appreciation should come out of it. Talk to your lawyers again, I've talked to lawyers, and it doesn't violate judicial freedom at all if that sentence isn't in it. Otherwise, in this situation, I don't care about the rights of people who committed this type of crime. I believe that their right on this matter is secondary. Ejection and reconstruction of institutions. Big numbers can be said, Mr. Secretary, big numbers can be said. For an average person, it may seem to me that you say that HUF 3.8 billion, or HUF 3800 million, seems to be a tremendous quantity, but if you think about how this is then divided into institutions, the number provided, and the state of our institutions that the walls are leaking, the pipes are not good, there are hundreds of years of wires in the wall, compared to renovation, modernisation and ejaculation 3.8 billion nothing. Nothing in the face, especially considering that the cost of organizing the water vb is almost this much more per day, or that the stadiums are multiplying with mushrooms in Hungary, and renovations that do not make any sense. I know that this is not your responsibility as the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, just try to influence the government, so that we may try to distribute the funds in such a way that this ridiculous HUF 3.8 billion does not come into this area, but is a multiple of this. I know that the current amendment was also motivated by ombudsman's reports and could also be motivated by the situations identified by the Ombudsman. In these cases, it is very serious what concerns the category of offences, which is mainly addressed by this proposal. It does not talk about or find solutions to problems relating to the situation of the institutions in ombudsman's inquiries: the number of seats, congestion, shortage of professionals, the state of the institutions. There should be a solution to these, too. And that's what this 3.8 billion is really, really not enough for. And that's what the social career model is also needed for, because, as long as there is no social career model, there will be a shortage of professionals in these workplaces, because no one will go to a mental health home or rehabilitation home or a disability home, so that if you go outside a border, let's say, if you look at someone living in Tata, where I live, you will travel between 70 and 80 kilometers, and you will get three and four times more for a person than if you go to such a home, and you have to deal with ten-twent-thirty-forty at the same time, depending on what position you are in and whatever profession you are in. And there is one more outrageous thing in the law, I have already said this in the amendment of the Erzsébet Programme Act, where two former pioneer camps were clearly offered to a Hungarian foundation on a platter. Now we see in this law, and by the way, one eye cries, another name, because in this law we see that you know that next year the elections will fail, because that is why we have to do this now, to preserve for five years the money corridor that we wish to pay to friendly foundations, friendly people and friendly organizations for five years. I don't think it's about anything else. It's about you knowing very well that you're over, you've stolen too much, you've lied too much, you've done too much damage, we're gonna follow you in 18, but this way, the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin or even the Saint Augusta Foundation can continue to make the money the same way, even four years after the change of government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-98	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Ms Bernadett Szél, lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-04-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If I had to briefly sum up the substance of this bill, I would say that the mountains gave birth to mice. I was really looking forward to it, and I'm very sad to say that you've been ruling this country for seven years, because of child abuse and sexual abuse in children's homes, you promised to put a package on the table that would protect children. Well, that's not the package. The thing is, they're still in debt. So I can see this as an intermediate state of affairs, absolving and absolving, but the thing is, they can't do the job. They've developed a method. This is fantastic! After seven years of government, they did a methodology and put it on the website. It's something of a huge government achievement that I think the whole country needs to fall to. The representative of the child's rights shall have the right to speak to the child who has been abused in private. Yeah, I think it's okay. The driver shall be satisfied of the driver's ability to drive the person concerned. After seven years, that's a really big score. Crisis management services shall be provided. I really think you guys are acting like you just took over the steering wheel. There's the LMP's previous proposal, we said that anyone who assaults a child, but who assaults an adult, shouldn't go near children. You have now written that anyone who abuses a child should not go near children. Good. Here, too, there are concerns that there will be exceptions at all, so there will be an opportunity to favor the person who manages the institution. We can't accept that. But we'd tighten it up. And now everyone in the Fidesz who's here is going to stand up and say that I'm the liberal, they say, "Soros hire," anything that comes to their mind, but I wouldn't let any of the kids who abuse an adult get near it. That's the big deal. So, be nice, back to your offices for a while, and think about what you've put down on the table, because that's pretty much what you're doing here, and in your lackeys, you're gonna tell me that you've done something. I call this job what you do as if you're working. [[17.00]] It's a pretense activity. It's not enough, it's not enough, it's not enough! - and you're late. This will not make the children safer in these institutions. Mr. Secretary. Let us talk about another issue: how is the ratification of the Istanbul Convention? Because they have been very quiet about this, and I think we have the right to know it here in opposition and everyone involved in this issue, what the government is working on. We know it was an administrative settlement, don't we? Where are you? If you are working, show us what's going on in the office, where there are public-service professionals. I think it's been years, and now we're really a year ahead of the elections, for seven years we've been trying to explain to you that there are institutions providing specialist care, there are children's homes, there are correctional institutions, these institutions need to be brought to a systemic level. These institutions should be monitored from a child-rights point of view. Many times, the media has gone before you. We are in a position here in Hungary, in practice, that if the media hadn't written the abuse that took place, you would continue to alibi. Even though I can't see this as a big innovation that's been put on the table, at least something's happening. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] There are serious problems within these walls. For example, there is the Bicske Children's Home, which has appeared several times in today's debate. I would just like to say to you that the institutionkeeper who should be monitoring the institution in principle has been informed of the abuse in the newspaper. What kind of situation is this? Why don't you talk about them? What are they gonna do about that? How will this whole system work more effectively? I think that things should be said as they are, things should be named by name, the child protection care system in Hungary is currently unable to perform its function after the seven-year government of Fidesz. And I have the terrible news for you that this is T/15378. The proposal we are discussing will not fundamentally change that. I am infinitely desperate, because it was you who said that it was family-friendly government, that you are constantly puffing about how important families and children and women are to you and the rest of them are to put one of these on the table. We are talking about people, children who have been severely neglected, abused, victims of rape. In practice, when these children enter the so - called child protection system, we see that they are put from one vulnerable situation to another in a vulnerable situation. Many times, not only do they not receive help in dealing with the traumas they have suffered, but they are, in effect, being abused by those whom we would hold to help these children. We have said, for years we have said, here in connection with previous LMP proposals I have spoken a great deal about this, that the problem begins there, and this is the zeroth step, that although employees in such institutions must meet the conditions for a non-criminal record, there is a clear moral certificate, but the fact is that such cases may simply not be revealed, they remain hidden. There will be no criminal prosecution. For such an employee, a number of child - protection institutions can be found out how he treats children. It is often an open secret about what is going on in these institutions, and no one is taking any action. And then it's been seven years, a lot of scandals, and now they've put half of it on the table, actually, and there's also a worrying conditional way that if someone thinks it's possible, they can give such a person immunity for working there. I really don't know what to say about why they're inventing the methodology for investigating child abuse cases now. So, I really don't understand the fact that after seven years of government, you think about it. There were a lot of opposition parties here, and I don't want to take it out on us, and we kept telling them what the solution was, they didn't do anything. And otherwise, there is not only a problem with delay - this is one of them. The odds are different, the conditionals are different. The third is that the conditions must also be guaranteed. It's one thing to make the rules. But I've been thinking about how the conditions will be ensured that things work. That is why I said that this is absolving and absolving, because there is an old Hungarian saying that you cannot make something out of nothing. If you don't put money in this system, this system won't work. It's a budget period now, so we're talking more about money than we usually do, so I'd like to say again that we're talking about people who work for roughly the worst wages and salaries in the national economy. In this regard, Fidesz-KDNP does not have a memorable saying, it was not expected. There's a shortage of numbers in the area. It should also be noted that there have been such fundamental questions as to what is the guarantee that once they have done the methodology, they have posted it on the website, that it will reach the professionals concerned. Will the signalling system receive training, for example, on how to identify, identify or prevent abuse at all? How will the signalling members cooperate? Because as many of these cases I see, it's also a recurring pattern that cooperation can't be achieved. How will that make it better? Will there be more professionals in one case? Will he get more attention? Then I'll ask you if there's gonna be more money, because here, if you have to spend it on something, I think that's it. Will public authorities act more effectively or faster? These questions are open to me. When I asked you about the issue of the Istanbul Convention, I also asked you because one of the most important points in that agreement is the need to provide the necessary money to ensure that the systems work. I think that's one of the main reasons they're refusing to ratify, because from here on out, this particular rubber rule, as far as the budget allows, and this typical political blab that you guys do, is not working. 'Cause it's gonna be black and white, and it's gonna be what it costs, and it's gonna have to be secured. There is no discretion for Mihály Varga when he pulls the budget lines. You have to give me that money. So be nice and answer that question. It is also a sad fact that we are talking about children's rights here in Parliament today, and this law, I think, is fully connected, because it also shows how zero the activity you have put on the table in recent years is. But there's an organization, a civil society organization. You don't like them that much these days, because Vladimir Putin doesn't like them either. They tried to make it impossible for this NGO to get into an institution where we have people with disabilities. They've been doing this for months with different, said reasons. The CSO has asked me to help them get in and do the independent monitoring procedure that they are otherwise qualified for. This is a programme controlled by the European Commission, and we are talking about professionals, not someone coming in from the street and saying that they are going to monitor us here. The thing is, you didn't let these people in for months. I myself have struggled to allow these people into the institution. There have been various interesting developments in this regard. What they've come to me for is that I have a mandate, and for now, until this is taken from us, the way it works is that we can go into any state institution with this. My fellow Members, we are using this opportunity because there is much to see in this country. The thing is, I tried to get into the Great Tophaz. I got an appointment from the principal at the time, Mr. Tamás Formanek. Very interesting things happened, because shortly after that, I was called by the Social Affairs and Child Protection Directorate, the Maintenance Department, and they told me that it would be good if I moved on to the date of my visit, because the Deputy Secretary of State would come with me. About a postal exchange revealed that Mr. Tamás Formanek had been dismissed from his post, and was immediately relieved. Well, I didn't postpone the visit. I went to the facility, along with the entire civilian surveillance team. They had just found a new acting director. We were standing in front of the gates, and they told me that since I had a mandate, I could go in, but the civilians couldn't come in with me, so they could stay away. What they showed me, I wish the world would work that way. There was cake, coffee, spontaneous party in the dining area below, guitarist man playing Pooh for the children. So, they showed a picture that if it worked this way in Hungary, I would say that there is nothing to criticize about what is going on here. Then the civilians added the other half of the story. And I find it deeply outrageous that now everyone understands that the government knew exactly that it had something to hide. If they didn't know what was going on in that facility, they wouldn't have tried to stop these independent professionals from getting in there at all costs. Because they have shown that there is virtually torture in that institution. I'm talking women's tights tied up, and I'm talking groomed. I'm talking about people who were lying on the floor with a belt strapped to the floor, and their bodies were scrubbed all over the floor, trying to get out of this condition. Hungary, 2017 - Fidesz and KDNP govern. After all, having lived to see this scandal happen, I'm coming in here to discuss the Child Protection Act, not the Minister. But he does not say in the press that he takes responsibility and resigns immediately; and he is very sorry that he did so and that they will not want to kill civilians anymore, but rather do their job, because Hungarian people pay enough taxes to get access to institutions that care for people with disabilities. There's the money. Why don't you give it to them? Why don't you spend the money on what it's for? [[17.10]] So I think they've crossed another border stone that needs to anticipate your failure. There is a saying that governments are worth the way they treat their most needy fellow citizens, and now we see how Fidesz treats people who are most needy. I'd like to ask you and answer that, Mr. Secretary, why the EMMI is acting like it wasn't there. You said you'd start an investigation, review the situation, exactly what happened there, acquit the principal - that's not the end of the story, is it? The whole system needs to be scanned. Yeah, I was actually trying to get into the Topház, it was really hard to get in, the civilians couldn't get in, because they practically stopped them from getting in, and what's in the other institutions? [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The same.]] And let me ask you at all, what does someone who's supposed to be monitoring do? It should do it at least annually, but it should continue to carry out internal checks according to Hungarian law. These were not given, so the documentation of these checks as to what was found in these institutions is not public. Anyway, I've been asking for it in public interest. Although, if you were interested for a moment in trying to clarify this matter, you would already be on the EMMI's website with all the documentation. But that after this incident Minister Balog does not come in here and say that I take responsibility here on the spot and resign, because during my ministry such a thing could happen, I think that Hungarian people have every right to hate politicians. I really think that this lack of consequence, when people try to get away with this much by setting up the leader and sending him away, I think that this tells me a lot about the moral state in which the Fidesz-KDNP and all its politicians are staying, because I haven't seen any Fidesz-KDNP politicians who would stand up and say that it's terrible and let the minister resign. They could! If something is not a party political issue, then what is the situation with people with disabilities? Your predecessor was here, I talked to him for years about how we should comply with the various conventions in Hungary, there was no such striking example that they caught themselves and showed a representative a perfect world, and then the civilians went in and saw the people tied up. We've just managed to do such an exploration. But the thing is, nothing's happened in years. How long has the system been like this, Mr. Secretary? How long have these people been in this state in Hungary? And how did they even dare to try to hide the truth from a congressman? How does your ministry even work if something like this can happen? They cannot arrange this by launching an extraordinary procedure, and the system of checks must be put in order. And I think that you are now at a moment when you have to tell me who from the EMMI is standing up for this case, and at the same time, as you stand up, tell me where you put the 21 billion forints that have been set aside for disemboweling. We'd like to know where the money goes.
u2017-05-04-100	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome back. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will first ask Mr Szabolcs Szabó if he wishes to comment as an independent member. [[Szabolcs Szabó says no.]] It says no. It is now possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2017-05-04-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. To my fellow Members of the opposition, I would like to say once again in a little more detail that one of the amendments that I have just drawn up and worked out with my fellow Members is that if a sexual offence is committed to the detriment of a minor, that is to say, the judge condemns the perpetrator in relation to the freedom of sex or crimes against sexual morality, then he should not have discretion as a punishment, but should be prohibited from the occupation - point. It is not specified how long it should be prohibited. And the Criminal Procedure Act, which we are not amending now, gives us the opportunity, by the way, to apply every ten years for a review of the convicted person, who has been convicted of this crime. I think this will also answer your concerns, and at this point we can agree with the amendment of the current legislative package. If I still have time, let me just say a few words about the fact that we legislators here can't really talk about the final verdict of the judge in court. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes, you can!]] And I don't think it's fair to make that kind of accusation against the Secretary of State sitting here. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-102	Thank you. I now give the floor to notary Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2017-05-04-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to continue what's already been affected by the congressional ladies, what's going on in boarding homes, what's going on. Mr State Secretary, the example is not first, when we are already faced with issues of this type, the Minister sent the Secretary of State last time and ran away from responsibility, which is what he is doing. At a time when child abuse takes place, when hunger takes place within the framework of specific institutions for the most vulnerable children, for disabled children, where according to the findings of international civil society organisations, from bondage to hunger, there is much going on, Mr. Secretary, there is no need to submit a bill, no, there is no need to explain the certificate, no, there is no need to cancel it, there is no need to sail, there is no need to wait for you to be swept away like the wind of garbage. They have put a multitude of EU funds in this institution, to my knowledge, and it is not a problem, because these resources are not being used as they should be used, they are not being used, and they are not being used for the benefit of those who are necessarily in this institution. Or if this is not happening within the framework of the institution or not on the part of the maintainers, on the part of the operators, but, as some claim, on the part of each other, on the part of the operators, on the part of the operators, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, why is it not possible for some people to receive the kind of care that needs to be rescued from these situations in order to have a specific set of conditions? You don't seem to be interested in this story, you don't care, because in order to ensure either the professional or the conditionality, you don't ensure that there are appropriate conditions. It's not that shameful, it's an outrage that can happen. So, Mr. Secretary, I'd be happy to have you resign here. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-104	I now give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén, who will take the next two minutes.
u2017-05-04-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First, I would like to say to Gabriella Selmeczi that I understood that you tabled an amendment to this issue from the benches of Fidesz, but this debate is not about the amendments made by the various Members, but about the original proposal. As I have said, I have tabled such an amendment, and I hope that if the party has already tabled it, then one of them will be adopted, and this shameful passage will be removed. I would like to say one more thing that many people have mentioned about the child protection warning system. I think - in agreement with Mrs Bernadett Szél, by the way - that this amendment will not resolve the situation, because, although it is not a law dealing with their territory, it is the Child Protection Act, but because of the person who works in the educational institution, I think that as a teacher he is quite familiar with the legislation that applies to him, even if it is not in the legislation dealing with their field, I think he already knew that he had an obligation to indicate himself. You may know better that you have an obligation to signal now that you will be included in the Public Education Act, but that does not mean that you will implement it. Once again, as long as the appropriate sanction system is not established on what the sinner deserves, not the one whose pledge is in my hands, but the one who misses the signal, we cannot expect results. Once again, I would like to say that this is the current situation, that if the social services notice that someone has not made use of the mark, they can press charges, they do not provide adequate sanctions and they do not provide adequate protection even for children. Once again, perhaps a separate, separate Btk. clause should be made about the fact that, as a member of the child protection warning system, a person misses the signal, and from here he can automatically or automatically initiate the procedure for the notification of a citizen. And yes, there should be a penalty for someone who doesn't signal, saw the case as a teacher, and didn't report it, because I think that the teacher who didn't report at this time is not a failure to signal, but a co-conspirator in endangering the minor. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-106	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a normal time frame. [[17.20]]
u2017-05-04-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some things I didn't get to say in my lead speech. The Minister of State spoke about the amendment of the Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits, and stressed here that the system of training for persons with a management mandate engaged in social, child welfare and child protection activities providing personal care will be adapted as of 1 January 2018, in the new training system, the management mandate will be conditional on participation in basic management training or master management training, and at specified intervals of renewal training. At the same time as the establishment of the new system, the basic social and vocational education system will be abolished. This might even be perfectly fine, but then there is another sentence: the training institution is appointed by the minister. Who's gonna be the training facility? I would like to ask you if Lőrinc Mészáros bought some training facility this week to conduct the trainings, because we see that the ability of this extraordinary man is beginning to expand in the last few weeks. I'm sorry, you have to put these on, because we can see that this man is already trying to get the Matra Force. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, also spoke about the amendment of the Elizabeth programme; what they are doing with this is also a disgrace, and we can bring up the Ripper of the Ripper here too. What else didn't they get? What else do you want to give to someone, under the cloak of socially deprived people, Mr. Secretary? Well said, my good fellow Member, do you want to secure these organisations, because you will fail 18? Secretary of State, you have shown that laws can be annulled by another law. They will not be able to secure themselves, they cannot, because what they have done these seven years cannot be tolerated by this Hungarian people any longer. They tell me all the time, you're right, Bernadett Szél said, I'm glad the Secretary of State came here, but we haven't seen Zoltán Balog as Minister in years! Today, I saw him announce that he highlighted one item about the whole child protection law and the whole amendment, one item today: that the Hungarians living abroad who are having children will be given the 68,000 HUF grant. That's all the law has to say, Mr. Secretary? So why didn't you put it wrong that we were buying votes again? By the way, it's not gonna be up to the budget that we're going to give you an extra 68,000 forints or not. I am glad that the Secretary of State for Health is here, because these abuses are not only in the social care system. I have to tell you here that we haven't found out in a year at Karcag Hospital where our Bishop's Lady resident was sedated, and in the middle of winter, in the middle of winter, he disappeared from the hospital at 100 pounds. We haven't been able to figure out what happened in a year. I asked for an ombudsman's inquiry, that's all I could do. And then you have to ask yourself, why are we building stadiums? Why? We don't even know how many hundred billion forints we've been at in the last seven years. No one knows anymore, because with the Tao money, maybe we're not talking about hundreds, we're talking about a thousand billion forints? Then why don't we strengthen the social security system? Why don't we strengthen health care, strengthen education? And then we'll see in next year's budget that, of course, we'll give it a little bit, because the elections are coming, and we should somehow forget about this for the last seven years, but we're not gonna solve the basic problem again, we don't want to deal with it. My fellow Member rightly said that we are talking about children, children. Why can't the Istanbul Convention be ratified? Why can't we just put an end to this and start working when we're talking about child protection? All I did was bring up cases like that, and again, the Bicske Children's Home. It may be said that we will not be able to influence the courts with this, Mr Selmeczi, but that is not what we have seen in recent years, Congresswoman. If they want to, they know everything, if they want to, they can influence even the courts, and Peter Polt can take care of it. However, my fellow Members, these cases often do not go to court. The case in Bicske showed me, he didn't even make it to court. I would like to point out once again that this man was decorated by the Minister, until today he has not come here and apologized. [[László Kucsák: But this was the previous speech!]] So? Congressman, press the button and give me your opinion. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: It's a little more serious than that.]] You can't say it enough, you didn't apologize, it was okay for such a mute, such a man, to be honored on August 20, at a state holiday. Then what do we expect others to do when the government sends this message? And with the way you behave to us in many cases, Congressman, what message are you saying? Did you see what was in one of those high school graduations? The congressman has read it, he's in education, what's the family, who's the leader of the family? The husband, the man, and then there's a woman in charge, if they're divorced, and she just stays there to raise the child by herself. So, they're sending messages that... that... And then we'll talk child protection. The government has no child protection, no family protection, no women's policy, but it's long gone, and nothing, Mr. Secretary. My fellow Member has said well, for seven years they have been pretending to be working. We should finally get started, Mr Congressman, Mr Secretary of State, but I think we can manage this small period somehow, since we have endured these seven years, and I hope that the next government will work for the people. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-04-108	We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-05-04-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would not have asked for the floor if my fellow Member Kucsák had not been dealt with by the fact that the congresswoman was once again dealing with matters of child protection and child abuse. You know, these are the cases in which you bring various draft laws into Parliament's walls, while, within the framework of the institutions that you maintain, there are huge problems. In this regard, Mr Secretary, if you are still here, if you have not resigned, then it would be good to report, let us say, what you are doing in a preventive manner, because in relation to the events that took place in the last year, the prevention was nowhere, you know that, and I can even say that you admitted it when faced with the stories. You don't just have to go after the events. If institutions are already operated, institutions are maintained, there must also be provision for professional work to be carried out and for activities to be carried out in the interests of children who are disabled or who are not disabled. I must say, there are huge problems in the walls of this institution, we can see the example of the pit right now, but I will not repeat the story. Secretary of State, don't you think that as an institutionkeeper, as a ministry supervisory body, we should perform the basic tasks? Once again, should prevention be enforced, leadership selection should be made in such a way that it is in the interests of those who receive care within the walls of the institution? And that it should also be ensured that the appropriate staff, the appropriate professional set, can carry out its task with appropriate salaries, so that all these torsos can be avoided? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-110	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi in two minutes.
u2017-05-04-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Firstly, I would like to respond to the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr. The statement he made in his first sentence is very strongly thrown away from reality. The second part of my two-minute speech would be to believe, fellow Members of the opposition, that it would be very useful to have a real, logical policy debate here, but it is very difficult if they contradict themselves in a speech. [[17 .30]] Let me give you an example. One part of a speech criticises why this methodology is completely unnecessary, incomprehensible, and the other part of the same speech asks how different members of the child protection signalling system will communicate with each other in offices. The answer is that a very good and to be supported is that if the methodology is constantly strengthened and clarified not only now, but also in the future, because this professional protocol, called the methodology, will be an aid for who has a clear role and how the members of the child protection signalling system will be able to act among themselves. By the way, this is exactly what my fellow teacher-educated Member has been talking about, that it is difficult to have a good and useful debate without your contributions being somehow logically framed. In mathematics or logic, there is also an item that A is true, B is true, there is no correlation between the two. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-112	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind in two minutes.
u2017-05-04-113	I may have some qualifications in numbers, but I'd like to go back in mathematics to child protection. Mr Secretary, I sincerely hope that you will speak not only at the end of the debate [[Charles Czibere intervenes.]] I therefore believe that, since Minister Balog has taken the rabbit's shoes and has not appeared before the Parliament and has not clarified himself, for example, in relation to the case in Göd, I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State will also be involved in the debate. The questions keep coming to you, and I'd like to ask you to answer them. [[Charles Czibere: I will.]] Because the EMMI can't pretend it wasn't there. Housing institutions are subject to the supervision of EMMI. I also wrote to you about the Bicske Children's Home, and they wrote the following:. In addition to the maintenance check, it is a guarantee of the child protection law that basic child welfare benefits and child protection services under personal care are activities subject to an operating licence. Institutions providing special care for children shall be subject to annual checks to determine whether the institution operates in accordance with the legislation and to guaranteeing children's rights. In addition to the normal control, the body which authorised the operation shall, if it becomes aware that the personal, physical or operational conditions or operation endanger the development, life, physical or health of the child, or any other right, keep an on-the-spot check. When was an on-site inspection carried out in Göd?
u2017-05-04-114	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-04-115	Thank you, Mr. President. The only reason I'm doing normal is because I can't do it for two minutes. I would say to my colleague Selmeczi that I know that we have been given this several times in such an interesting debate that we have no understanding of anything or professional speeches. We know very well from the last seven years that you know everything, especially family affairs, women's affairs, which your prime minister doesn't normally deal with, and most of all, with the country's robbery, you've been perfectly able to deal with in the last seven years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-04-116	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see any further opposition, so the general debate is closed. And now I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, I think he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Károly Czibere: I wish.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-04-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking you for your feedback. I think that there is zero tolerance in almost all indications and comments and the same passion, and that there is zero tolerance in these cases - especially in the case of child protection - of cases of abuse, abuse, abuse, abuse, and abuse, and I mention it - and that all means must be taken to detect them and to reduce the visibility. I would like to thank everyone, almost everyone, for proposing, commenting and amending how this could be strengthened. A general approach in part in the case of Göd, partly in the case of child protection institutions, Bicske and related cases. On the one hand, I think that the way to really respond to the question raised by Mr Nándor Gúr about prevention is to build enforcement and legal protection systems that are independent of the institution, the maintainer and the head of the institution. So the most important tool to prevent and enforce children's rights - but this is also true of disability rights and the rights of people with disabilities - is that they are more vulnerable to this type of abuse in an institutional environment, so the government and the legislator must always work on how to build a multi-party multi-party enforcement guarantee around the client. I think that's the most important thing. It is also important to prepare the leader, and it is also important that the professionals are properly trained and prepared. What are we going to do about it? The 12 billion-dollar training programme, which started last month, is about to launch, which will make training free of charge for workers in the sector, the social, child welfare and child protection sectors, such as the new management training system. I think that this is obviously also the case with the increase in wages, in 16th, in 17th and 18th, the average wage in the sector increases significantly, which contribute to our prepared and prepared numbers of employees. However, the prevention tool is the starting-up program that will improve the chances of young people leaving child protection, young adults, for example. So I think there are a number of these elements. But let me get back to law enforcement. The concept of the government is that it is important to have maintenance control, it is important to have internal control of services in its own circle, which is required by the legislation, as the congresswoman has quoted, and that is what is happening, so I have asked the SZGYF in the case of Topház, for example, but it is also important to see what people who are independent of the institution and the head of the institution say. There are four such persons who today validate this in Hungary. One of the authorities, the authority itself, as you mentioned, must regularly monitor these institutions, such as the guardian, such as the child protection guardian, such as the representative of children's rights and beneficiaries - whose number we are going to increase now - and such are the Ombudsman, thus theoretically independent actors around the client, around the vulnerable and service user. It is no coincidence that, on the one hand, the government has been trying to strengthen their role in recent years, and it is no coincidence that the decline in vision has been most due to them in recent years. When we consider who has made the most announcements in recent cases of child protection, we see that they are child protection guardians. Dear House, This government took it, took it from the head of the institution and the foster family, the guardianship of the child protection guardian, that's the government. This is the government that has initiated an out-of-court investigation in each case, in such and similar cases, asking for a report, an examination by all the actors listed here, and then an inquiry in the competence of a professional manager, delivering within two to three weeks, preparing the final result and informing the public. It is also true, and I agree that the media has an important role to play, and many times, in most cases, it has helped us, but let us remember the street of Alföldi, where the media could not exactly reveal the situation in substance and in reality. In this case, I also turned to the president of the media authority to try to create a regulatory situation in media regulation, media ethics, where professional work and the quality of life of children have a negative impact, let's say, on such a case as what happened on Alföldi Street, where it turned out that there was no basis for any slander... - quite precisely slander. The other important thing I'd like to say here is civilian control. The government in child protection as well as in the case of disability not only tolerates civilian control, but also requires civilian control. [[17.40]] Let me say that, for example, the National Disability Council has discussed and discussed these cases. He's been negotiating a detachment strategy. Let me say that seven professional colleges - basically from civilians - operate in a service area, which are proposing and analysing bodies for the sector. A control body consisting of separate civilians was formed for the replacement process, the IFFOT, the Supervisory Board for Institutional Relocation. So the idea of excluding civilians from this world is simply not true. Both in the case of disability, child protection and child welfare reform, the basic outlines of reform and the strategy for replacement were based on continuous and live intensive dialogue with civil professionals, experienced professionals from practice. The 16-year-old child welfare strategy is also available. This January, the strategy for the replacement strategy, the 11th strategy, also revealed changes. Because these experts suggested that we reduce the length of the detachment strategy, close the institutions. This hole's gonna close, too. Because it's also involved in the detachment strategy. This government has decided not to go to residential homes and small institutions, but to take 20,000 people to supported housing at the end of this strategy. 10 grand of that by the end of 2023. This government has decided to re-embed these people, who have been forced to live in large institutions at the border of the settlement for decades, into their environment, the local community. This government has decided that it will provide these people with an autonomous, independent and complete life. It's the government's first order of six and now 77 billion. Congresswoman asked where 21, 22 billion was, that's the second round of disinheritment. In the first round 660 people moved out of six institutions out of 6 billion forints. The second round starts now, his application ended at the beginning of April, with 2,500 people moving out in 39 institutions in the next two years until 31 December 2018. So I think that to accuse this government of any procrastination or any concealment or any cover-up... You can say from the previous period cases where they were mapped from point to point, asking all the documents, and all the facts placed on the table, and then exposed to the public, and then your legislative changes, revealing to you, whether you have children's welfare - Gyöngyös - or child protection - Bicske - or disabled people. I think that this government can certainly not be accused of not going to the end of the case in any case of its weight and not taking it to the conclusion of a lesson. That is why, a year and a half ago, a working group on priority child protection issues was set up. There's the Supreme Judge, there's the Chief Constable, there's the Attorney General. We want to discuss all the consequences of each case. This package was also prepared from the proposals made at the meeting on 18 November last year. So I think that we will be partners on all issues that should enforce children's rights. Let me move on to the other question, everyone's touched on it. As an example, we call it blacklist business. I think that we agree that if a person has abused or abused a child, he must be banished from public services once and for all. I don't think there's a debate between us. The question is, how do we achieve this? This proposal contains several ways of doing so. For example, what has been mentioned by many has to be asked back, informed. Several people asked the foster family. Unfortunately, there are many times when foster parents find themselves unfit for one maintenance unit, passing to the other maintainer. The new maintenance guy doesn't know anything about it. This is what this proposal does to prevent this from happening. Yes, if someone didn't treat the child that way, then he shouldn't be a foster parent in second, third, or fourth place. We think that's what this is for. The most delicate part is obviously the question of judicial authority and judicial discretion. I promise, and thank you very much to the congresswoman and to the Member, on behalf of the Government, that we will examine it. The same goal leads us to rule out, as far as possible, any possibility for life that our children, let me put it this way, let us let those who are bestial criminals, criminals who can corrupt our children or pose a risk to their physical, mental, spiritual or moral development. All such proposals will be examined in substance, and, of course, we will study and balance with experts from the Ministry of Justice. There were other questions, let me get in line. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély mentioned the training institution in her last two minutes. According to the current plans, the idea is that, since one of the institutions with the greatest experience in training public service managers and managers is SOTE's health management institution, we now have the idea and there is a lot of overlapping knowledge with the social field, today's idea is that this can still happen, but today's plan is for the sector to be deployed there. So they are the ones we looked at, and there are encouraging negotiations; until they are signed, obviously, I cannot say this permanently. Next thing you know, they've eased the decision on the Agarde case. In the rule of law, this is the possibility for the court to consider all circumstances. I think that there is a way to legislate here, there is an opportunity to analyse these cases. Let me offer you this again, because this will also be discussed by the Task Force on Special Children's Affairs, including the Court's decision, and we will draw on the experience there. The next question, as Congresswoman Bernadett Wind said, is the protocol to be published now? No. This is a piece of protocol, but last year, in the case of child welfare, we published five protocols, before which we released the protocol for the detection of abuse to colleagues working in health institutions. The protocol is basically a professional development tool for employees to be able to apply the legislation. Let us not only make it legislation, but let us make it applicable to them, and prepare them for the application of that legislation. It's the only way they'll be able to take advantage of that. There was a question about whether we would strengthen the system at staff level. Yes, we will increase the number of professionals working in public authorities, government offices and social services from 2018 onwards, and we will also increase the number of representatives of children's rights. Both elements are about the members of the child protection interest guarantee ring. So we would like to strengthen this guarantee in numbers and in salaries, but also in numbers. The next question was whether the 15th of November is not too short in the temporary homes of families. They knew about this much sooner, maybe a year ago, that they had to prepare for this. After all, there was an idea that it would be in the law last year, but we didn't put it in because of the short preparation time. So they didn't have a total of five months, they had 17 months to prepare for it. The next question: in relation to the red code, Congresswoman asked the 34 billion RSZTOP - we call the food package programme - where she is. He's heading right for the homeless case. I'll tell you more, because on December 21st, the right part of the program is a 4 billion-dollar sub-programme, which for four years ensures that homeless people get one bowl of hot food a day, it started, so the first part of the program started in mid-December, almost throughout the country. It's a matter of public procurement. There was a county where public procurement was unsuccessful, and it started there now, and its continuation will now take place in July. What you asked me about, I think, is the part about children. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Homeless.]] Homeless? It started on 21 December 2016 and operates continuously for four years. [[17.50]] So that's totally fine, and the rest of it is fine, because public procurement is constantly coming. In June 2017, the distribution of food for children starts in a large, one billion-dollar sub-programme in three counties and becomes national in the autumn. I think that this is well planned and that we have been able to launch public procurement on time. She asked me about the nursing center, Congresswoman. This is an important, principled decision of the government to create this new type of institution between health and the social sector. That's what we talked about. This is where he's going in. This is a pilot, this is the pilot of a new institution to take account of the elderly who are in the nursing home today, and their need for care is far greater than the average in social care. Quite simply, if services and service packages are not differentiated according to the needs of the users, primarily according to their need for care, we do not respond to their needs, which is likely to come to the institutions with increasing care and care intensity as ageing and age increases, so we need to be prepared. This now provides the legislative framework and will start over the year, over the next year in the institutions, and on a systemic and national level, I think that this will take place from 2018-19. He asked the question of those who were exposed to cold in their own apartment. This is precisely why we have brought to your attention the local authorities that the winter crisis is not only about the homeless issue, but also about those who are more at risk in their own homes. That is why we have drawn the local authorities' attention to the fact that the social law includes not only the welfare system, but also the adult protection system, so the vigilante, the policeman, must also go, watch where the chimney does not smoke, and should be indicated. There were more than one and not two cases this winter, where the policeman had to break down the door, but the signal came in. I have to say that this winter, and we have to thank the people and the population, the inhabitants of the settlement, we have seen signs of solidarity - the pissed-off coats, blankets, and let me not mention the donations made by the charities - which show us that people do move in situations where they see that a lot of people are in need. Let me tell you that in 2300 settlements, firewood was distributed to 180,000 people, for example. So I think that the responsibility of the municipalities cannot be avoided in this matter. Article 7 of the Social Law. It clearly states that if there is a situation which threatens physical integrity, there should not be any consideration of the competence, competence or anything of the municipality, but should be given immediate assistance by means of cash benefits, benefits in kind and services, and that is why exceptional municipal aid is in the social law in order to assist in such a case. The government provides HUF 35 billion for this in the municipal register for municipal subsidies. The next question: Mr Sebestyén Vágó asked about the red code: small settlements, supply white spot, dispatch service. We think dispatch is regional. The experience of this winter has shown that the dispatch centre has the highest number of signals, three times as many signals as ever before. So we think that if it's tied to the dispatch center, and it's not inflexible, there's a lot of people here who've suggested that it might be inflexible, there's a lot of information until it gets there. No! There were cases, two cases in January, when there were no homeless people of the type, needy, or homeless people in homeless shelters that he needed, and he had to ask for the nursing home. We think that even mathematically we shouldn't offer a chance for this to happen, which is what the code red serves. In any case, the protection of life is more imperative for us than to say then what is the profile of an institution. We strengthen dispatch centres, and we recommend it because we can see that they have the most information, including those areas where there is no social work on the streets, and we think that through this system we will get help. There are institutions in places where there is no social work on the streets, but the signal works. [[But how does he end up in the homeless home?]] How did you end up in the homeless home? It goes there, I didn't say that at the beginning. I'm sorry there's gradualness in this case. This means that he must first be dealt with by the homeless establishment, and he cannot let go of his hand until he finds it; so there is no such thing as an empty space, so the homeless person cannot let go of his hand until he has taken him into the institution. So it's not like you're code red, and then you'll have it for him one day, and then the dispatch center will handle it whether you find it or not. No! It's the homeless people who find a place. [[Cutter Sebestyén: But how did it get there?]] I just told you. Next question in executive names is subjectivity. It doesn't have to be considered, but it's going back to the blacklist again. So we think that we need to help the leaders with appointments in order to provide a sufficient amount of information about the professional record of the person to be appointed. So I agree that this is subjective, and it may be true of the colleague you mentioned, but regardless of that, I think that all information must be provided, because at some point there may be information that would not otherwise have been available. So I think that, together with this, we have to undertake that subjective evaluations will also appear. This is still the case today, for example, in the case of foster parents, because the legislation lays down a very serious set of conditions for foster parents. [[Interjection from the MSZP.]] No, that's true, the housing conditions, the psychological tests, there's a lot of skill tests to go through. I would like to reject what the Congresswoman said that foster parents in the countryside are willing to do this for a living, not out of love for a child or out of commitment to service. It's an excessive generalization that I can't identify with and agree with. The installation of victim protection, the congresswoman and the congressman asked. Yeah, we mean that, but we're not gonna have the victim protection team installed on child welfare centers, crisis team, but on the dots, and, yeah, there's gonna be extra resources, and there's gonna be extra staff. Therefore, this will not be saved from the current child welfare capacity and not from the current child protection capacity. We're serious about this. Without victim protection, this package is worthless. The next question is that there is nothing in the 3.8 billion modernisation programme. However, not only is this 3.8 billion HUF, but let's think about the substitution program, which is 77 billion, let's think about the Tiops from the previous program, let's consider that there is modernisation in the TOPs, let's think about the KEHOP. In 2015 alone, the state-owned institutions developed HUF 7.2 billion of COHEP, which is an energy upgrade. So there is not only this resource at all, there are a number of other sources to modernise the institutional network, but we agree that this must be done constantly. [[18.00]] Congresswoman Bernadett Szél said that - I was talking about training, re-training, I was talking about wages, I was talking about methodology - that there would be cooperation in the signalling system. Yeah. I think this is a fundamental question. What we see is that cooperation in the signalling system is alpha and omega on this issue, if we can confirm it by all means; and in the autumn, the health law, and now the amendment of the Public Education Act, is also affecting this direction. All indications suggest that this is an appropriate means of not enforcing the signal of co-workers, but to be taken seriously, that they have a task in this regard, and that there should be consequences and consequences if they do not indicate that there is abuse, too, if there is no signal. It's also a physical assault. So we think that the obligation to cooperate must be taken very seriously and should be encouraged by all means. I would also like to thank the Member woman for the support and the amendments. I would also like to thank the Commissioner for her cooperation in the autumn and Mr László Horváth. I think that the common goal is indeed to ensure that cases do not remain undetected, the aim is to protect our children, the aim is to continuously improve the quality of services. And the goal is that the children, those with disabilities who have been entrusted to us by society, and for whom we have a shared responsibility, so that they can live a full life, and, in the case of child protection, children will have a full life opportunity, a chance when they leave child protection, all the help they can get from institutions, service providers, services and professionals. We will be doing this for our part, and we will support any proposals that take steps in this direction. Thank you very much, my time is up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain health and health insurance laws until closure. The government referral is T/15369. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Ónodi-Szűcs, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-04-119	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. As usual, I'd like to present you with a law salad. [[To Dr. Wind Bernadett and Charles Czibere, who talked to each other:]] - and I hope to succeed if the Congresswoman and Congressman allow me to say these things. Thank you very much. What we're talking about is a legal salad, and the last time I was in front of you in the spring, I was trying to explain to you how many of us are trying to move in that direction, how we can make the possibility of people, citizens, more and more easier in health care. This is what the current legal salad is actually trying to do, basically trying to make people's lives easier, and a few points that would cover deregulation. I think it's going to be very difficult to find something in there that will bring back negative news, but I'm going to try and be curious about your questions. The first such point is the amendment to the electronic health space. As of 1 November 2017, a new time calculation will start in Hungary, since from this day onwards health institutions, including pharmacy and all public health care providers, will be obliged to connect to this space, and in this connection, the previously paper-based findings and recipes will cease. The related technical amendments are included in our amendment proposal. It is also a technical amendment, but it is extremely important that we want to make it easier for Hungarian citizens to get to the transplant waiting list. I can already see that the word "waiting list" may have a negative meaning, but you should know that in Hungary a citizen has the greater chance of getting an organ from Europe if there are more people on the waiting list. That's a pretty simple sentence. What we want is for anyone who has a chance to be on the waiting list to enjoy an extraordinarily important investigation. I also think that it is a deregulation case that, if it is to be used in an experiment, that if it is not an experiment in humans, then it is not necessary to ask the authority for permission to manufacture or market the medicine. It is also a deregulation issue that we want to reduce the administrative fees for SMEs. I don't think that's gonna cause much debate. For the Hungarian pharmaceutical industry, it is extremely important, especially for small companies, to face as little authority fees as possible. We would like to reduce these fees by 50 percent. Also a relief, or I don't know how to put it, is a new life situation, that at the end of last year we managed to reverse the patical liberalisation, and today I can tell you that every pharmacy that works in Hungary is majority-owned by Hungarian pharmacists. The legislation is that if death occurs, the heir should have 45 days after the end of the proceedings to ensure the creation of a new ownership ratio. It is also a question of deregulation so that the minister can now define the circle where a national medical institution can be established in Hungary in a regulation. I think that is not a question of why this is important. More and more professions are entering with the need, whether in the capital or in the countryside, to receive authority within their own profession. One word as a hundred: this is an extremely technical proposal. I think we're trying to make people's lives even easier, and I'm asking you to support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Ildikó Bene, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-04-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The T/15369. Legislative bill No.1, as Mr. State Secretary said, salad law, which will come before Parliament almost every spring and autumn, and obviously contains clarification in a number of areas by opening several laws, and, as Mr. State Secretary said, this present bill primarily contains legislative harmonisation and technical amendments based on practical experience, but I think that it contains very important issues. The law opens the Health and Personal Data Protection Act 97, and this current amendment contains, in particular, precise changes related to the use of the e-recept, and defines the remaining missing legislation that serves a safer identification and more efficient operation in the electronic health service space. In the present case, the electronic prescription means in part the electronic prescription of doctors, the issuing of prescribed prescriptions and the electronic storage of prescriptions. We have talked a great deal about this electronic health service space here in Parliament, and it is very important that we are talking about an integrated information system that links information systems that are still operating in a modern way, using standard technologies, and ensures communication between actors, and I think that this will be a very serious step forward in the health system. I think that the ESTE can function effectively and serve patient care well if all actors in the health care sector are able to use this system well and effectively. The electronic prescription is a very important module of this system, and it is very important to expand the data for the patient's sex and number of non-subsidised medicines, so that the patient's so-called unfunded care is also shown to the treating physician. This therapy is a very serious security for healing. In fact, if the prescription of the medicinal product or medical aid is not done by electronic means, since this system becomes general, this does not mean that paper-based prescriptions will disappear from one minute to the next, it is certain that this should be a lead time, but it is surely necessary to ensure that the drug or medical aid provider can record this in the healthcare provider system, as this is how data on the treatment of the patient will be fully and fully visible to the doctor. [[18.10]] It is also important that the retention period of the prescriptions has also been reviewed because, in the case of paper-based prescriptions, it was five years in pharmacies and in the case of medical aid distributors. Obviously, there were physical reasons for this, since storing these large quantities of prescriptions is not easy. I think that by introducing the ESP, we can also achieve that health care data, which provide for 30 years of preservation, can also be implemented here. It is also important to note that this applies not only to the prescription itself but also to the data of substitution. The introduction of an electronic prescription, I think, has a very serious advantage. The waiting time for the patient is decreasing, and it is certain that it will allow the pharmacist to perform more accurate and rapid expediation, and I think that this will allow, in part, the time spent on the patient, information, as this may increase, and this is clearly important for the patient's treatment and patient safety. Mr Secretary of State also spoke about the changes to the transplant. Hungary joined Eurotransplant in 2012, and now, following recent years, we can say that more and more transplants are being carried out in Hungarian patients, and the result of the accession was that the process of organ transplantation was much more organized and much more coordinated. As Secretary of State said, these patients will be placed on a transplant waiting list, based on the decision of the transplant committee, following a preventive investigation. We also know that the patients on the transplant list are in serious condition and that the necessary care is taken in time, that they are on time, and that they are given the chance to get an organ as soon as possible, that the underlying tests should be carried out in an outdated manner. In order to ensure a rapid examination or a reduction in the length of the waiting list by making the studies out of order, this is certainly very important for these patients, as we know that it is often a very serious, heroic struggle to keep the patient at a stage suitable for transplantation. I think it is very important, in order to schedule these benefits, the interrelated investigations, that these institutional registration lists be born and that the professional rules of the list be laid down. It is also necessary to regulate which service provider should manage, which benefits should be covered, what reporting obligations should be carried out and which bodies should be provided with it. The state secretary also said that the laws on medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market are partly technical clarifications. I would like to highlight one thing, and that is the use of advanced, novel therapy products. These are substances created by cell or tissue-based techniques, while our traditional medicines are based on chemical compounds or proteins. From a regulatory point of view, these advanced products are also quasi-drugs, but since they are subject to EU regulation, it is therefore necessary, as a general rule, to lay down that the authorisation procedure for hospital-related production of advanced therapy products is free of charge, the licensor is the National Institute for Pharmacy and Food and to publish information on these decisions. Mr Secretary of State said so, but I think that one of the most important elements of this law is the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises with authorisation to manufacture pharmaceuticals, established in Hungary, because it is of particular importance for SMEs to improve their operation. I also think that this is what it is for to have a 50 per cent reduction in administrative service charges to be paid to OGYÉI. I think that this can give us the hope of building up a competitive portfolio as quickly as possible for domestic export-oriented SMEs. The Act on the supply of pharmaceutical and medical aid and the rules for the distribution of medicinal products has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State. Unfortunately, it can also be seen here that life and practice bring about the changes that are necessary, as in the event of the death of a pharmacist with a share of ownership in the company operating the pharmacy, the fact that the property of a pharmacist falls below 50 per cent, which, according to the current regulations, would result in the withdrawal of the authorisation of the pharmacy. Therefore, the proposed amendment in this case provides for a transitional period for the company operating the pharmacy to settle the ownership situation for 45 days from the date on which the estate transfer order became effective. So once again, this salad law does contain rather technical and legislative amendments, but I think, in agreement with the Secretary of State, that these are very important for the care system and patients. I would like to ask with respect my fellow Members to support this legislative amendment proposal in addition to their opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-122	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr László Teleki, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-04-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I think that it is indeed a technical amendment, and this is a very big problem for the Hungarian Socialist Party, because there would be a lot of problems in health that we would like to see here within the walls of Parliament, to be modified or to speed up something for the sake of healing and patient care. In recent years, a number of public opinion polls have been available, which have shown that the biggest problem in Hungary is the health problem. Therefore, you, Secretary of State of State, should in any case consider how to improve the data that you have seen. Of course, technical proposals, which my fellow Member has also said, we say that it can be absolutely supported, but the only question is where is the addition of the amendments that could be made in order to cure or prevent it. Therefore, overall, I think that even the part that wants to regulate the system of waiting lists in the case of transplants is important, but I would ask Mr Secretary of State that we hope that there will not be a system in this that will enable it to upset the good system where one could see that it was not possible to prevent one patient from doing the other, because so far it has been true that there has not been an example, or that we have not known that there might be one, and that there will be a system in this, because a lot of people are saying that if there is money, then one can get ahead of each other. But it's not about that, and I know it, but we need to reassure the public that it's not about that, but it's about speeding up investigations in a technical classification. Therefore, I would consider it very important that, even in the direction of public opinion, these issues should be fully clarified, because today it has not been clarified when this material could be seen by others. The system of personal data, records. Once again, the question is that we hope that, despite the fact that there is a shortage of doctors in health care now, there is a lack of nurses, and now we want to build a system that we do not know who will handle it. But the only thing I'm sure of is that if we get another company in the system that might take the money out of health care, we're gonna be sad. Then it won't be about how to cure patients and how to make them transparent about who's in the system, but about getting a company to something, then there's a very big problem. Tell the Hungarian Socialist Party or the public that it is not the case that we want to make money again here, and that is why we are making up this system. The next thing I know, which I think is very important, and it is absolutely important to mention the use of medicines and the electronic prescription system. [[18.20]] The electronic prescription system, I think, is very topical, because the situation was chaotic, it could not be understood, especially for specialists and pharmacists, how this worked. So we certainly consider this to be good, especially if it is in the best interests of the patients that a system is in place that even makes it visible what kind of medicine they have taken. And if you don't go back to that doctor, but you'll be connected to a central system, that's definitely helpful, because so far, a lot of times the patient couldn't tell you that if he moved away, if he moved anywhere else, or if he was sick, what medication he had received until then, but this system - I'd like to refer to it in the same sentence as described - means that anyone in any country can see that the patient who went to the other side of the country could look into the system for what medicines he had received. Once again, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support the proposal because the issues that would have been very important are missing. Knowing the precise nature of Mr Secretary of State, I hope that in the next period he will also mention how to improve, let's say, outpatient care, hospital care or emergency care, because these are the main issues of the majority of people, and this is indeed not in this law, in this salad law. I would not go further because it does not belong entirely to the law, but also here the waiting lists must be mentioned, as I said in my other speech. The government is wrong that waiting lists are down, and there's no way to get into CT first, or to get into an MRI first. If a patient occurs, it is necessary to wait for weeks and months to be able to access these tests again. So I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State for his seriousness to try to speed up the reduction of these waiting lists, because many people's lives depend on it. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-124	Thank you. I now give the floor to László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-04-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna hit a high ball right at the beginning. Preparing for the post-election period in 2018, and while I am not a State Secretary, allow me to answer your concerns about the ESZT whether or not it has been tailored to the company. It was not tailored to the company, it was brought up by the need for technology and development, but this does not rule out that it was good for people, and I will try to shed light on it in my speech, because it looks very much like the efficiency of what created this system was, there were people in it who were largely responsible for not working well. But perhaps it is appropriate to start with such a debate or such a salad law, though I do not wish to consider all the points exhaustively and to discuss them all, because more people have said the very essence of this in front of me, and I do not want to go down into the jungle depths that may mean a detailed description of the justification, because many of our fellow Members have made a living by giving back the plasticity that we have read in writing. But the debate of salad laws is also very important because it is possible to raise questions, to raise problems that are even relevant to the bill itself, but in real life it is a serious problem and which is missing from this House. I have a very old comma horse, and perhaps my fellow Members know that I do not think enough of how much we can debate about health in a good way, because there is often a debate at the level of the personalist or any other political debate, and it also represents that value. This is basically excellent for the media, but not professionally appropriate. So, I really miss the debates in which we can discuss them and talk about exactly professional matters. But let's get to the professional part, shall we? I've already touched the ESTE. Here I will return to the first thought and explain what I was thinking. Perhaps also Mr Secretary of State knows that I have tried to map all 23 billion forints of development from the start of the ESTE and at the stage of its implementation when the development at ÁEEK and other consortium partners, consisting of various investments, EU projects, tried to figure out where it went, how quickly it was implemented, how it was set up, and it was possible to see that the total project of 23 billion, of which 14 billion forints was carried out within the framework of the State Healthcare Services Centre, had some elements, and I continue to claim, and I was very difficult to prove it, but there are some elements that I think have completely failed, and these were largely problems with computing and computing technology implementation. And I would very much like to name it that I think, and I would like to face it, if you are not so, that Magyar Telekom is in charge of developing - and disprove me, Mr State Secretary - that now the ÁEEK has to involve new partners with new EU funds to make this system work and work properly, because Telekom has produced a service that seems to have not been fully operational. I don't know if that's why the program was delayed, because the original schedule you sent to my question was delayed, because you told me when I contacted you about why this project was slipping and how far it would slip, that 250,000 users would be connected to it by the first quarter of 2017 and that 250,000 people would be able to work with it. I fix, by the first quarter, it connects everyone, and by the second quarter, I think we are now in the second quarter, if I count correctly, there will be 250,000 sectoral users in this system. He has now set the date for November 2017, Mr Secretary of State, when this may be possible. So you could see a continuous slip in it. A very simple random check, a counter-check, to see what kind of problems they might have had: there was an app, a mobile app called MANTA. It was written oddly, the M was large, the small and other mix letters. The point is that this is a mobile health journal and information application, which I do not know how successful or how many people have downloaded it on their smart devices, but it is a good indicator of everything that the MANTA app in the largest social media - I am sorry that our colleague Ágnes Molnár is not here, because he would understand what we are talking about - he has about the same number of likes as the Fidesz in Sopron, which is about 800 pieces. This is practically equal to zero in social media or in the world of Internet users. So the popularity of a mobile app can also be measured on a social media site. I don't know the download numbers, of course, but it's also telling me that there hasn't been any news on this app for over a year. In addition to the development, for example, we spent 12 million forints on communication tasks in the framework of the Origo News Portal, which lived even better days at the time, and I looked up two articles on the promotion of MANTA. So we spent it on a mobile app, and this is probably the tip of the iceberg, 12 million forints for advertising, of which we managed to write or deliver two articles. Well, the public media's been doing better than that these days. If this were now entrusted to the Ripost, the Origo, the 888 and other media triumvirate, they might be able to produce more articles from it than they used to produce from it. To sum up, therefore, it can be said that although the ESPT is a tremendous opportunity, it is very important for the system, but I also think that a future government or current government should have a primary role to play in identifying, where appropriate, the abuses that had previously broken down the extremely important work of the ESP within a limitation period. My guess is you have to look for problems around the multinational telecommunications company. For my part, I am constantly following this, precisely in order to find out why Hungarian users had to put in place a year later or why they had to wait a year for this, because I believe and know that this system is not only safe, it will not only work well and it has to work well, but it will be of great benefit to Hungarian health care as a whole, because it will contain a lot of sick roads shortening, a lot of data from which we will see a perfect picture using modern health technology, and we will get a perfect picture of what the sick journey in Hungary is, what the habit of Hungarian patients is, and where we can get them so that their participation in health will be at the lowest possible cost. So, overall, it can support a cost-effective health care, which is why I take it seriously that we will have to deal with the EST. The other question, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State may keep his habit of getting involved in the debate, which is not intended to be a debate or provocation, is a few questions that we would like to have an answer to: this is about the transformation of the legal protection service. What I mean is that the OBD, which may have been set up in 2012, is now fused and that the EMMI is essentially acting as an independent organ. [[18.30]] Here are two questions. Is Mrs Krisztina Novak still the director or head of this body? I can see from the nodding that you did. And why was it necessary for you to receive a Deputy Secretary of State salary? Maybe it's a technical issue. The third is whether there has been a decrease or an increase in personnel from the OBDK to the body now established as a legal protection service. In addition, what justifies what is the 31st. Are you in the section? We have included, in the law on the development of the health care system, the possibility of carrying out health control activities. This is a very long point, spas and several field visits. I'm telling you, this is 31. In this context, the applicability of 2017 has been postponed to 2019. The question also concerns the reason for the deferral. Is there any objective, personal or other reason why these checks can be carried out from 2019 rather than 2017? By the way, the checks we've included cover very important public health tasks. The other is the fight against patical liberalisation. It is clear to the contrary that succession in the pharmacy is a very serious problem. I've got a double, conflicting attitude here. Because, on the one hand, there is a multi-interest, it can be seen, where there is simply an economic and capital accumulation interest. Of course, everyone would like to make the most of their capital. But there is also a side, which, if you will, is the counterpole to the apothecary dynasties. After all, not all families have developed that those who have been apothecaries for many generations have become pharmacists themselves. From now on, however, they have the succession, and more people have approached me with this, which raises the problem that if the parents were apothecary, they will not be able to pass on this ability to generate wealth or even income, to tradition, as they too will be cornered by this property rule. And it doesn't matter that we're going to leave you 45 days here, by the way, to be turned away from the final estate order. In fact, the problem here is to find a good mix or to find good legislation to control market players at some level, which is, by the way, multinational or capital-enhancing participants, and at such family pharmacy, we do pay in some way that this is a long-standing family business or a traditional business. In particular, since the heirs are not a pharmacist, as this comes up many times, I believe that my fellow Members have also been contacted several times to see what can be done. So, while on one side this regulation was a restriction, it would have been an opportunity for property, but eventually it would also be a restriction. In this connection, I think that we will have to rethink certain elements of the regulation, because I do not know, and this is the question of whether this current regulation leads to quality medicine supply, or, in some cases, problems will arise that there will be no pharmacist who will acquire these pharmacy or pharmacy property, because, let's say, there are fewer professionals, or there are no supplies, or there will be problems. Here, I think we need to reset this scale, since it's a drugstore, to count and see what's in the pan and balance it. Overall, I think what I wanted to say was that I spoke a little more than I wanted. If you have the opportunity, Mr State Secretary, I would only like to be answered very briefly, obviously not to the provocative part, not to my reasoning about the EEST. Just to make the actual meaning of the legislation clearer, and then maybe we'll get a little closer to a solution. We can't comment on Jobbik's position yet. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have now come to the end of the keynote speeches. A two-minute comment is possible. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2017-05-04-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I just want to ask you two or three simple questions. If I understand correctly, if I read correctly about bringing institutional registration lists to life, then there is no exact definition of the cases in which they may lead such lists. If I remember correctly, it was defined as, in some cases, a,,, for some benefits. What are these individual cases, some benefits? And if the institutional lists come together in this sense, then how is the central, national waiting lists really in a thank-you relationship? Technically, why is that necessary? What is different, what is the difference in this regard? If the principle of providing care is not a date for inclusion on the list, then what else is there? In fact, these questions arise when you get past the proposal at first reading. So what I'm really saying is, if there's an institutional registration list and there's national waiting lists, then between these two, there's a correlation gap or the question, the question mark gives me the uncertainty, at least for me. If these two are the same in terms of function, then what do you need them for? If, in terms of function, it is not exactly the same, but different, is the registration list, i.e. the institutional registration list, not the opening of a kind of loophole that my fellow Member Teleki spoke about, expressing this uncertainty, i.e. expressing the uncertainty of the system in this regard? There's no risk, there's no danger, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-05-04-128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-04-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Here with most of the salad law, as my fellow Member Luke said, we agree. On the other hand, there are some issues that have been addressed to the Secretary of State. If you can provide a reassuring answer to these questions, we can really support this salad law, since it includes topics, especially 90 percent, which are fully eligible, and so far has not been regulated and organised. But I think there's a new system that we haven't applied before, or if we've applied it on paper. This new system, this ESTE, must indeed be introduced, but it must be introduced as my fellow Member has said, that this system is working properly if each of its players, who are involved in the system, can use it, apply it, and use it. Now I have a lot of concerns and questions. I tried to register as a private person and a public figure with a client gate. In fact, I was able to log in because I memorized both the username and my password, and now I'm just talking about me. I've been trying to encrypt the contact details and data that tell me that some doctors or institutions can't access my data. Well, Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you've tried-- it's not easy. And as we looked at the polls, so far, government windows and government offices haven't been crowded by people who don't have a customer gate. I think that people who appear at a general doctor or in the institutional system are more of a 50-year-old group and most of them do not have a customer gate at the moment. In fact, many people don't even know what a customer gate is. But I'm moving on, and many people don't even know what this health service space is. I mean, we're just talking about it in here, in Parliament, or at a medical community conference, at best. Last time there was an IME conference in Budapest in February, which was shown through a very nice demo recording of how the system works from the user, from the resident to the home doctor, through the institution to the pharmacy. If that's how the system works, it's perfect. But there are some concerns, even in data protection, and this has also been raised at the conference, which they have not been able to respond to properly. After all, it can be encrypted, but the info law states that the patient should be told before the procedures are performed that they can perform those procedures on him. Here, however, you will only be able to do so in hindsight, since after the customer gate registration, you can help him either at the government window or at government offices, which users, whether by name doctors or institutions, are unable to access his data. [[18.40]] Now the question arises, if you don't know that there is such a system, because most of the population doesn't know that if we're doing a poll on Kossuth Square right now, I think a hundred percent of those interviewed don't know what this system is and how it works, then how can we expect Pilisgyarmaton, say, Aunt Erzsie, if you don't like your home doctor or one of the doctors in the institution, to stop you from having a problem case? Unfortunately, they can't handle it this way. My fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, has suggested that the exceptional cases that cannot be solved by encryption are psychiatric diseases, diseases and diseases, but also the prohibition. So it can be so easily dissolved, because there is an urgent need button, which, if the doctor pushes it, every medical case will be revealed to him, even if the patient has provided that he cannot see his data. But since it comes up again - and we go back to the Alpha - so if Auntie Erzsie doesn't know about this system and doesn't encrypt this system, or if she did, then she doesn't go up to Facebook at home, not even the customer gate, and she doesn't watch on a daily basis to see if Dr. Zoltán Tóth checked her data. Because it can be sued and settled in court afterwards, but it is, of course, not satisfactory. And once again, I say that there is very little information available to the public, because they do not know about this system. But we must, because my fellow Member Luke also said that from the very beginning we supported the system itself, since this will eliminate paper-based prescriptions, whether the referrals or the charts, or every paper-based system. It has also been said that this was done by means of an EU resource, just as the IFTs were introduced at the National Rescue Service. It was also implemented within the framework of an EU resource, but unfortunately the system itself is not working. And I don't want to set this as an example, and I trust that it won't work like IFT, which doesn't work at all, because it still has the paper system next to it for almost a year now, and in some districts the IFT has been abolished because the system freezes down, the software can't handle it. It's so slow, and it's connected to a mobile network, and it can't track it where it doesn't have coverage, it can't be used. That's a problem. It was also raised at the conference, and it is also an interesting question that there are a lot of computers in the general medical system that are outdated, very old, not spent on it, especially in the districts where a general practitioner provides more villages and has an office in each village. But there the system itself may not be able to store this new database, serve the system itself. At the conference, it was said that the software related to this new ESZT, if the old system ran away on it, would also go away. But this one's in parole mode. So my question is: can GPs apply for device development within the TIOP application, or a source that eliminates this error, so that if the system is outdated to make the ESTE itself work, they can buy new devices, even in all three clinics? I mean, you don't know what kind of a patient appears in which office. We also need to talk about its advantage, because there are a lot of good advantages to the system itself, which my fellow Members have already said here, that if you go to a doctor who is not his home doctor and I return to Auntie Erzsi again, she will go in and have you prescribe her medicine. And what medication are you taking, Auntie Erzsi? Well, that little red pill. There are a lot of red berries in the system, but if you look into the ESTE, you will see the medicine you have prescribed and are constantly taking, and the doctor you went to will know exactly what medication your aunt Erzsi is taking; just as when she had hip replacement surgery, when she was in the hospital and with what disease. And once again the concern, really, is that they do not know the system of users, patients cannot apply it, and this urgent need button is important to everyone. The question was also raised in doctors at the conference as to why we forbid that if there is a button that we press - which we really need, because if there is a life-threatening condition, because it was designed to bring someone into an institution in a life-threatening state - then every single data should be available to the person working in the institution to provide the best and most appropriate care and not to give a medicine that might cause their death in the event of allergies. I think that I have said every single suggestion and concern that goes against the system, but once again, Mr Secretary, there is much less against it than the argument behind it, and I think that if you give us the reassuring answers to our questions that you have asked, whether my fellow Member or I, then we can support the salad law itself in this form. Again, there is another problem in the health system, but I think that we need to resolve it not within the framework of the salad law here, but in a health debate or even a health round table discussion. We could tell you how to reform, redefine this system, how to put more money into the system, which has already been said by policy-makers and economists, but it does not belong to the salad law. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-130	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-04-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Secretary of State, I really don't want to ride on the documents of the ESTE and on the things that might be worn out. Especially since I believe that Mr. State Secretary was at that time the Director General at the GYEMSZI at that time. I asked for what to know about these projects, and I would join my fellow Member here, how important the public is, and we know that these software elements are always involved in these improvements. Now, I may not have found all of them, but really, in the order of magnitude, we have spent all the money to make the Even good, and almost no one knows anything about it, or very few, a narrow professional circle knows about it. True, let's be fair, because it's in a pilot version, obviously the profession needs to know more about it, and then the public needs to know more about it. But we spent, for example, in the TÁMOP 6.2.7-13, on the one hand, 11 million 800 thousand forints to ensure a mandatory publicity, and then I roll the list, because here they have to be selected from a large Excel board. Then mandatory, non-binding publicity ProDICTUM Kft., at TIOP 2.3. 11 million 500 thousand HUF, is also available to the public. Then the TIOP 2.3.2-12, this is a mandatory public conference, HUF 24 million, and if I count it in my head, we are now slow, I think, at more than HUF 40 million. Then, in TIOP 2.3.3-13, DFT-Hungária Zrt. is required to provide the public with 14 million forints, and now I'm not as good in my head as I am, but we have to walk in abundance above 50 million forints. And then even for the New Age Agency in 6.2.3-12, 15 million HUF for communication services. And I know that these software elements need to be spent, but we spent 80 million forints on the various project elements, as this was done from several applications in the EU, we spent virtually 80 million forints on communication, that we are in the mandatory publicity that very few people in Hungary know this, and I am sorry for the wording of the tarpaulin. That's why I said the MENTA program at random, that despite its pleasant smell, there are a lot of things that stink about it when we spent 1 0 million forints on something, and it has an 800 likeable pages. Technically, almost no user knows this application. And I don't know how much he touched people, as soon as I tried to register for him today, it turns out I've already registered for him once, so he didn't really grab me enough to use it, because he's already told me by my e-mail that I signed up for it once. So I probably deleted the whole thing from my own smartphone after a short while. So you could do a lot better and a lot more out of the EST. I would really like to ask you this, although I am not sure that the Secretary of State can answer it, but perhaps I should ask the Director-General of ÁEEK whether the professional news is really true, that a new company had to be asked in essence to develop the system to actually work, because everything that was on the computer site was not so functional. [[18.50]] I can see the reactions, but then you can rebut that in a certain way, because that's what the news was about in a professional book. And for something so important that we've created in health care, if there's shadows like this on it, it's never good, because the goal itself is much better and much higher and much more important than slipping away on such small amounts of money, a multi-company multi-business multi-business multi-billion profits. And I also looked at the fact that the amount of their annual turnover in that year was the one that was essentially ordered by the ÁEK, so that Magyar Telekom's revenue at that time, T-Systems, is exactly what I think almost half of its annual turnover was provided by this project. It's a huge big investment, big order. And I will note only quietly that at this time in the Prime Minister's Office there were workers working and a secretary of state who, I believe, was a lobbyist for the T-Systems or Telekom, and then later, when this bounced out in Parliament - I think that right here, my fellow Member of the President Novák, who is in my place, has kicked the case off - he was soon dismissed from his post, or he was called off by the Secretary of State or left the government. So this is a very bad light on the project, and yet I very much hope that, as much as this project has been through storms, this will be a very successful investment and institution of Hungarian health care, which is very well functioning and which will determine its future in the right direction. We would really like to have these questions answered in today's debate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-132	Thank you. I am asking my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to comment on this debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is therefore closed. I'll give the Secretary of State the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2017-05-04-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Then let's start with the ESTE, because everyone seems to have one positive message, yet we're still trying to stir up negative cases around it. Let me tell you my own experience in order to make them feel what a gigantic development this is. In 2003, I led the outpatient center in Debrecen as a young titan, and the social security center was 100 years old, and the social security company was on a road show and went from country to country. On Christmas 2003, I was invited to such an event - it wasn't the Fidesz government when they remembered it, so I went there from the Fidesz Fidesz company - and then the IT boss of the then OEP was on the road showing the electronic recipe. We are talking about Christmas 2003, and then the idea was that in April of the following year this would work. And I stood out very scared when I had to advertise that six months or a year later there would be an e-recept because I knew what work was behind it and how hard it was to put it into operation. If the reasons for the delay should be dissected, I think that this is not the room where it should be dissected; I would be happy to see it in my office, so we can discuss it. However, if you had to take one reason that really pushed the launch, the only reason was that it was a security level 5 system, which means you need a device that someone has to access to this system. The lucky situation is that the electronic ID card is already suitable for this, but we needed readers to do so, with which to autorize. And the purchase of these, as far as I know, of nearly a hundred such readers within the health care system, has been delayed. As soon as this is installed, you can start virtually live everywhere the application itself. I don't think that's gonna stop. So I will always be able to be destroyed every semester by where the ESP is going, because we will be developing again and again every semester. I do not think that it is what Congressman has been trying to suggest that something has gone wrong here and that it should now be corrected from another source. No; in relation to the waiting list - I will also go to the waiting list, but let me reply to it separately now, Congressman - we would like to see what works nationally in hospitals, how the inpatient waiting list could be extended, for example, to outpatients in order that what you said about not getting in MR or CT in advance could not happen. Or in the same way we would like to have an electronic vaccination book so that it is not possible that when a child wants to go abroad with his parents, he does not know what happened ten years ago, whether it was vaccinated and more, that they are all available. And I think the pilot might go quietly, but it's good news for me, because there are no scandals with him, so how does it work? I myself went to a hospital demonstration at the end of last year in fear, as you said, a basic care doctor prescribed a prescription, and then sent it to a pharmacy, and in pacic software the pharmacist validated it, released the medicine, and then asked us for the VAT, because the software was hooked up with the NAV and had to pay the VAT on the medicine that was released. But aside from the joke, so the point is that this system is working, and I'm very proud of the fact that this implementation has to be carried out at exactly the time of our secretary of state, because I think it's going to be a lot easier for patients, too. And, yes, I accept that this particular digital self-determination module may be a little bit cumbersome right now, but that's why we need all the criticism, all the debate to ease this. And I think, although I can no longer remember the exact surface, there is a possibility of excluding a lot of people from the system in advance, but I will look at it for you, and I will come back to this, Congressman, if that is true. This should be the ability of the application, so I do not think it is likely that there is any provision in advance for who can see what. And speaking of the emergency button, which means that if there's an emergency, access to data is necessary because... - I'll give you another example to understand the situation. Where I worked, at Kenézy Hospital, every afternoon from 4:00 to 8:00 a.m., the head of the E.R. had the authority of a doctor's director, but if he had to act like a medical director, he had to write a confirmation report on why he had to perform in that role. The same thing will happen here: if you press this emergency button, you have to account for why you did it. And if you can't prove the cause, we're gonna go after him. I think it's a perfectly normal reaction, you can't mess with anyone's data by looking at the patient's data. I could tell you one or two of these tabloids, one or two of these tabloids from America, where all the doctors in a full clinic were fired because they looked into the data of a celebrity who had nothing to do with it. So it's a living thing. We will also take advantage of the possibility that if someone abuses what the system entitles him to, then we can act against him. Congressman asked what that would mean to the general practitioner. Now, the fact is that the ESZT has no front ending, so there is no surface on the DÖR, so outside the self-determination page, which would allow user interaction, but everyone must use its previous application, while running in the background, the ESZ must run in the so-called back end. So today, according to law, software suppliers who delivered software to hospitals, clinics, have to write all these interfaces. So if you don't want to lose your own customer to your supplier, then you should be able to run the same software on your earlier computer that he used. In the meantime, you must prepare all such interfaces by 1 November. As far as I know - I can tell you the date of February - 70 percent of the suppliers were already able to produce the interface in February. So I feel like we're making good progress, but after working at an IT company many years ago, I don't sleep in peace, because a software is never ready and never flawless, but I'm very confident that we're going to disprove it now, and everything will work perfectly. The debate was missed. The reason I'm always surprised at this is because we had a debate day in a double time frame where they could take me for eight hours, and I was standing here. I think we're gonna have to deal with all the fights. I do not feel fair that we are being accused of a lack of debate; this was possible; I think they have taken advantage of it. It's a waiting list. I would like to stress that the waiting list was created precisely so that it could not be overtaken on the waiting list. So if there is no waiting list, the doctor is free to decide when to operate or when to treat the patient. Today, legislation obliges institutions to open and register a waiting list on the OEP website if there is a need to wait for more than 60 days in some form of care. So this is the guarantee that, unlike the previous ones, it is not possible to overtake it within the waiting list. All forms of care, hip replacements, knee replacements, corneas where waiting for more than 60 days is mandatory for the institution to keep a waiting list. If the institution goes under 60 days, this procedure is no longer necessary. [[19.00]] So the guarantee that it cannot be prevented, that it cannot be abused, is the waiting list itself. And I think what the opposition is trying to forget is not about hospital lists, it's about outpatients. I've told you this a lot, because it's a high ball for me, and I have to hit it again, because it's my job to knock these down. Three or four years ago, there were more than 70,000 Hungarian citizens on the list, today less than half of them. Now I'm not telling you what the number was yesterday, it's somewhere under 30, I didn't think it would turn up again, because it's so high that I didn't make it; next time I will, I promise. The fact is that this is a small number, because in the surgical round, which is required to wait list in different institutions, nearly 180 thousand surgeries are being performed in Hungary in that surgical round. If you compare the mass of the waiting list with the mass of the number of surgeries, I think that you live in one of the best countries in Europe, and this is so much the case that the OECD numbers show this. So if you look at the shortness of the waiting list in different rankings, knee replacements, hip replacements or cataracts, then Hungary is in 2-3-4th place - short, not long, I emphasize. What you can count on me now is what patients experience in outpatient clinics, and for that very reason, I ask you not to see anything nasty about improving the healthcare space, because we want every outpatient institution in Hungary to have an obligation to keep a book that is centrally controlled. Similarly to what we have achieved as a success in inpatient institutions, it should be achieved in outpatient institutions, and I hope that we can help this. But first, we would like to take the first step: after the pilot, we should start this system nationwide from 1 November, and I hope that this will work. I don't know, because I'm not prepared for this, Congressman, I'm sorry, but let's go and see the numbers. You obviously remember that you had an obligation to use part of the EU resource to promote it. And it is also quite clear that, in the first period, we carried this professionally and not to the general public, I think that we have done so. It can be debated how effective this has been, but the intentions, please do not question them, Congressman. The congressman asked me what data security looks like, and... no, I'm sorry, I misplaced the paper, oops... yes, I'm sorry. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We also need a good software for this!]] He asked me why we weren't dealing with something that was actually a problem. Let me reject this, because this government has not created any problems in the health care system, so what we have today as a tension is all inherited problems, and I am not saying that it comes from both yours and yours, but let me add that after 2010, we have not created any problems. Another question is that we can be called to account for the speed at which we can eliminate the cases. However, look, if we are talking about resources, I can say that in recent years there has been a significant withdrawal of funds in the healthcare system, only this year there are nearly 200 billion more than before, next year there will be another 200 more if I add the previous year, which means that the 1.5-2 percent deficit of spending that many of us were counting on, which we did not take out, but what happened in 2009, will be replaced sooner or later. But I think that the input itself will not be enough to make you or the patients feel better in the system, but it is more important to make our processes more regular, more regulated, and that the EEST is one of those elements that can guarantee that this will work differently. Mr Nándor Gúr asked how this waiting list issue worked. Once again, if you are older than 60 days, you do not have to keep a waiting list, if it is longer, and the institution has an obligation to open one of these, and there is the possibility that if you see a waiting list shorter than in your own institution somewhere else, you can request to another institution and complete that care there. Let me add that we see that within the waiting lists, by the way, the institutions sometimes - how should I put it? - they are not fully following the rules, which is why we have now made a proposal to the government that we would like the institutions to be sanctioned if this opportunity is abused. In other words, we see that there are holes in the waiting list that are not charged, and then there are very late dates - we want to make this more regular with sanctions. Interestingly, the Hospital Association was fully supportive in this case, since it would also like it to work well, we did not have any discussions about it. Who's the winner with regard to the suppliers? I can tell you, Congressman, that the operator of the ESZ is the NIS, it is a public body, so I think that you should put any other questions on the NIS. It's our job to work with them, to manage operations, and it seems to be okay. I have to see Menta, Congressman, I don't know what happened to that, I'm going to owe it to you. He asked me about paragraph 31. I think there's a reading there, it's not about the date of the official procedure, it's about, in my opinion, when we have to set the new TEK for the institutions, but then we'll look at it together; I think it's about... [[Dr. László György Lukács: Okay, I accept that it is.]] Paragraph 1. I think there's a reading there, it's not about the date of the official procedure, it's about, in my opinion, when we have to set the new TEK for the institutions, but we'll look at it together; I think it's about... (Dr. László Lukács: Okay, I accept that it is so.) Here, the previous regulation has allowed regulation at regional level, which is no longer the case, and since this needs to be reconsidered, we would like to ask for time for this to work. There is only one reason for this: the lack of our abilities. We're gonna kill him, and it's gonna work, and in the meantime, everything's gonna work out, and I don't think anyone's gonna get hurt. Let me answer the pharmacy question. I think it's a big deal, after all, what happened last year. If you think about it, at the end of August, I was standing here with trembling legs, as I did not know that the 700 pharmacys that had not yet been arranged for the Hungarian owner were still behind us as a task, and you know that at the end of the year, with the exception of some of the chemists, were able to do so. I do not know an example in Europe where we could have returned to the workers what was theirs, as we agreed with the profession that this was not a sac shop, not an alphabet, a form of professional care, because he added his expertise to what he was selling there. And I have to say that the pharmacy market is healthy, so I don't think they're going to be pharmacists, because the balance sheet reports say that last year the total profits of the totals exceeded the last of the pacics, when liberalisation started, and what I can tell you is that the big wheel reports that, compared to previous years, there has been a third decline in the outpouring of the pharmacy towards the big wheel. If a market is functioning in a healthy way, I think there's gonna be a buyer for every pharmacy. We're just trying, Congressman, to give the family time to settle relations after the deceased. Obviously, the legacy procedure itself is not a fast process, it usually lasts several months, and then you have 45 more days to say that if there wasn't enough time to settle matters during this time, there is still an advantage in which you can make use of your opportunities. I think that this could be pushed further, but the kind of exposure or fear you've been saying, I don't think it's happening right now. I would like to stress that the Hungarian pharmacy market is healthy and prosperous. I hope that I have answered all the questions, and I have not run away from anything; that if not, then please, you can warn me of this at any time, you know that I do not run away from anything. I think that we are facing difficult months from the point of view of the fact that we do have to get this system to work, because it will have 100,000 users of the system, which still requires a kind of education. We do have to deal with the DÖR, because we need to be able to present the digital self-determination module so that the untrained user can handle his own data, but let's add that this system is in order to make our patients much safer. If this starts, I won't have a colleague who can refer to the fact that the information wasn't available for his decisions. I think it's a breakthrough, a - how should I put it? - the beginning of a new timeline, and I'm very confident that even in this horseshoe, everyone will see it as a success, not a failure. I would like to thank you for the questions, for the improvements and I would ask you to support the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.10]]
u2017-05-04-134	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/15376. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-05-04-135	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to T/15376 on the regulation of education and the amendment of certain related laws. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. The bill contains amendments to six laws, and I would like to go through the most important points of these. The first is the amendment of the 1992 Law on the Status of Civil Servants. The draft proposes that the higher education institution take into account the time spent in teaching and teaching work in the former public education institution for the higher category of pay in the case of teachers. The bill provides for a period of preparation for the application of the new rules to higher education institutions until early September 2018. To sum up, this is a proposal that will bring about a positive change for academics, researchers and teachers in higher education institutions. The second contains an amendment to the Law on National University of Public Service and Public Administration, Police and Military Higher Education. This is a technical amendment, the bill establishes a single system of registration for students with public service scholarships and students with Hungarian state scholarships. In the single system, the Education Office will act as a record body for the fulfilment of the conditions of the scholarship for both the Hungarian state scholarship and the public service scholarship. The third, including several substantive changes, concerns the amendment of the 2011 Public Education Act. Here we are proposing to clarify a number of issues that have been raised in recent years to improve school processes. First, I would like to say a few words about foreign school trips. I would like to highlight the expansion of the interpretation provisions with the concept of a trip to foreign schools, and in this connection we propose some new rules. The definition of the concept and its presentation in the legislation deserve special attention, as the amendment of the Public Education Act is an essential part of the process of guaranteeing safer travel for students in the case of the bus accident in Verona. Foreign or multiday school trips should be subject to different regulations due to their speciality and complexity - just the distance of the journey or the complexity of the organization. The legislative amendment will define and clarify concepts that will also help differentiation in future legislative processes and measures in other sectors and allow for stricter requirements to be laid down. This problem also includes defining and clarifying the responsibility of the head of the institution, and contributing to this the special liability insurance, which will ensure the safety of the students and, in the future, that if an accident does occur, the enforcement of claims will be facilitated. There is also an authorisation for data processing in connection with the Unlimited! program, which is of a technical nature. It is of particular importance for the government that all students take part at least once in their studies on excursions to Hungarian territory across the border. The data processing provision contained in the draft legislation is aimed at registering the data of students participating in cross-border excursions organised in the framework of the Unlimited! programme. The proposal aims to create the possibility of foreign vocational training in order to allow Hungarian vocational schools to set up and train a member institution abroad, i.e. across the border, if, by the way, the domestic law of the country where the training takes place, so that the legal system of the country there allows this or does not restrict this possibility by a contract. At a specific point, we would like to propose amendments to education and education in transit zones. With this amendment, we provide a legal basis for the establishment of a temporary educational institution for children in the transit zone, which may differ from the requirements for Hungarian public education institutions. The current law contains a text corresponding to the refugee situation of 20 years ago in the case of asylum seekers. In the present situation, there are no asylum seekers in the transit zone, as their status is not yet established. The next section of the proposal is one of the most important changes to the press recently, affecting children with integration, learning and behavioural problems. The amendment allows certain subjects to be taught not only by teachers but also by teachers who are qualified to teach the subject in order to expand their inclusive approach. This is therefore in the best interests of the children and pupils concerned. It is very important to point out that this rule is an option and not an obligation for the institutions. There was also a great deal of attention to our proposal to exempt students with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties - not Sni, with special educational needs - from evaluation and certification. I should stress here that this amendment was included in the bill at the initiative of professional workshops, medical educators, therapeutic pedagogical institutions, pedagogical specialist services and therapeutic pedagogical professional organisations, so that in future, while maintaining many other benefits and assistance, they could not apply the means of exemption from qualification and evaluation to the students involved. The reason for this is that students who are less well-performing in certain areas are more likely to receive prevention and development rather than subject exemption, because subject exemption is less conducive to their knowledge-enhancing and catching up. In the whole system of public education, it is an effort not to be labeled or branded. The result of the subject discharge may be that the student leaves the school with lower skills and knowledge, which will adversely affect him both in higher education and in the world of work. The next part of this package of proposals concerns changes to the qualifications conditions for the teaching profession. The bill responds to the lack of teachers, so it facilitates the qualifications of the pedagogical profession only in cases where it can be proven that there is no education in the school. The amendments were also developed on the basis of a proposal from the Public Education Round Table and its working groups, in particular the pedagogical Employment Working Group, various professional organisations such as the Autistic Working Group and the National Pedagogist Faculty, which led to our primary objective of mitigating the current pedagogical deficiency. We are talking about a non-new problem that has existed for decades, which has actually been brought to the surface by state reservations, because for certain subjects, there has never been a qualified teacher in the country. The draft facilitates the qualifications of the pedagogical staff in order to alleviate the shortage of teachers in each area. The aim of the amendment is that if the teacher's work cannot be filled with a qualified employee, in this case it is possible to employ for a limited period of five years a person who is either qualified as a professional teacher and who is qualified in the field of science in higher education - it is very important that he has a higher education degree, so here we are not talking about teachers with a prior degree without qualifications - he has either a higher education degree and a qualification in the field of science in higher education, or he has a higher education and performing artist's qualification in a basic art school, and he undertakes to acquire appropriate teaching skills. So it is very important to reiterate that the decision here must be made between not being a teacher at all in the particular case, or we can temporarily fill these posts with teachers who have this knowledge in a different field. I think the answer to this is probably clearly that we should teach the children, take care of us rather than do this because that qualified teacher is not available. Some examples: say, if there is no trumpet teacher, the trumpet teacher may be able to teach music with the horn for some time, or a chemical engineer who, by the way, obtained an engineering degree at the Technical University, will probably be able to teach chemistry in a high school. I think these are perfectly reasonable and practice-oriented amendments that make everyday life easier and try to find a solution to the problem. Of course, the final solution here will be to provide teachers with adequate qualifications in all such jobs. [[19.20]] That's definitely a goal. If we look at the number of applications and admissions in the relevant areas of higher education, this has been steadily increasing since 2012. I trust that we will soon be able to reach this level. The last part of the proposal essentially concerns the amendment of the National Higher Education Act. Technical changes are, in fact, the issue here. I'd like to mention a few of these. One concerns the operation of the Senate, and here the new provision says that the Senate must be renewed every four years. There is indeed a technical reason for this. He assures the chancellor's administrative involvement in the organisation of teacher further trainings, provides for specific operating conditions at Semmelweis University, has a well-known reason for this, and provides that in the higher education institution, who is a teaching assistant and otherwise has obtained his doctoral degree, he is obliged to be assigned to the position of assistant professor within three years. At the moment, we have only raised the requirement, but there is no pressure in the higher education institution to become an assistant teacher assistant assistant assistant. Here, we have created an obligation to do so. So I think this will certainly create a positive and beneficial situation for these colleagues. I think that all the others, perhaps I wouldn't mention, are indeed technical amendments. Perhaps one or two more examples: clarification of the student redress procedure against the decisions of the higher education institution will be provided. The amendment proposes that DSD II, Deutsches Sprachdiplom II, established by the German Cult Minister's Conference, should be amended. the language examination certificate of his degree shall be free of charge. There is another important point: this concerns the change in the structure of higher education institutions, based on the unanimous decision of the Senates of the University of Semmelweis and the College of András Pető. They have started integration negotiations, in this sense, if this is concluded, and this will happen within a few weeks, then Pető András College will be merged into Semmelweis University on 1 August 2017 and will continue its activities there with adequate guarantees. The reason for this, the essence of the agreement between the two institutions, is that the method that is unique, developed in Hungary, the Pető method, can be further developed and protected in the sense that there is little copyable and that this method remains connected to Hungary. Thank you for your attention and for voting in favour of these proposals. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first to László Kucsák, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-04-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to give you some information about this bill in the hope that we can look at the set and not about the complementary set more than the previous bill. As Mr Secretary of State has said, civil servants... - we have three proposals on education and three other laws relating to education. The first of the laws concerned is the law on the status of civil servants. Kjt, the law on the status of civil servants, must be applied with the derogations laid down in the Act on National Higher Education. This amendment is added to the provision governing the assignment of teachers in the higher education institution. I'll tell you a little bit more about this later. The second law concerned is the Law on the National University of Public Service and the Law on Administrative, Police and Military Higher Education. This proposal establishes a single registration system for students with public service scholarships and students with Hungarian state scholarships. In the single system, the Education Office will act as a record body for the fulfilment of the conditions of the scholarship for both the Hungarian state scholarship and the public service scholarship for both study and employment monitoring. The third law is the law on national public education, which contains, on the basis of the proposals of the Round Table of Public Education, amendments to the law aimed at improving the functioning of the system of national public education and other amendments to the system for improving certain aspects of the system. The aim is to ensure better functioning to the satisfaction of all actors in the public education system. I'd like to talk to you about a few points later. The next, the fourth law concerned, is the law on national higher education. This proposed amendment aims at the renewal of the Senate every four years, the institutional coordination of teacher training in higher education institutions, the clear establishment of institutional responsibility of the higher education institution, and the regulation of institutional employment to ensure the advancement of staff in teaching positions. The amendment proposes to clarify the use of legal terms based on the experience of law enforcement, Nftv. the renewal of the implementing legislation of the Higher Education Act in the light of its changed legal environment. The Nftv. Therefore, this amendment of the Higher Education Act also includes the agreed outcome of the revision of the legislation on the Minister for Education Act. The fifth law is the amendment of the law on public service officials, which amends the law by codification. The sixth is the amendment of the Act amending certain social, child protection, family support and other related laws, which aims to ensure that the common kindergarten nursery can continue to operate until 31 August 2018 so that the maintenance staff have sufficient time to make improvements. A little more in the context of the Kjt., i.e. the law on the status of civil servants. The Kjt. In accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, positions in higher education institutions are divided into steps of payments. The degree of payment of the public servant in the higher education institution in the given job is determined by the legal relationship of mandate and by Annex IV. be determined on the basis of his or her working relationship with the exception of his or her step. The draft proposes that the higher education institution should also take into account the time spent in teaching in the former public education institution for higher grades in the case of teachers. The draft provides preparation time for higher education institutions until 1 September 2018. The amendment to the National University of Public Service provides for the form of public service scholarship student funding and its conditionality. 21/A. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on Higher Education, the rules of the Act on students supported by Hungarian state scholarships shall apply to students who receive public service scholarships, with the derogations provided for in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Higher Education. With the exception of public-service scholarship students participating in law enforcement training, but not including students in the security department of the law enforcement initial training, the university enters into a scholarship contract. The conditions of the Hungarian state scholarship are laid down in the Higher Education Act 48/A.-48/S. Its sections are set out below. Under the National University of Public Service Act, therefore, these conditions, such as the obligation to obtain a diploma over a period of one and a half times the training period, and the obligation to maintain a domestic employment relationship with a period corresponding to the training period, should be applied within 20 years of the acquisition of the diploma to the public service scholarship students with whom the university has concluded a grant agreement. Under the Higher Education Act, the body responsible for registering compliance with the conditions of the Hungarian state scholarship is the Education Office. The National University of Public Service is responsible for registering the responsibilities of students with public service scholarships under the legislation in force. The proposal establishes a single system of registration of public service scholarship students and Hungarian state scholarship students. In the single system, the Education Office will act as a record body for the fulfilment of the conditions of the scholarship for both the Hungarian state scholarship and the public service scholarship for both study and employment monitoring. The public service scholarship student will continue to be a special Hungarian state scholarship student, as the calculation of the supported semester of the Hungarian state scholarship and public service scholarship student will continue to be carried out separately after the establishment of the single registration system. On the subject of the National Public Education Act, the Secretary of State has addressed several points, so I would like to make a few points myself in a little bit more detail. One of them is the limitless! The data processing clause is aimed at registering the data of students participating in cross-border excursions organised under the programme. The registration of data is necessary for the use of excursion-related grants, which are proposed in Articles 8 and 9 of the Act. See section 5.1 of this Official Journal. [[19.30]] The next point is the provision or the intention to amend, which has triggered one of the most significant press voices in recent weeks, so that the amendment for students with mild and moderate mental disabilities would allow them to teach certain subjects not only by teachers but also by teachers with qualifications to teach the subject. It should be stressed that this rule is only an option and not an obligation for the institutions; this is the draft act 10. Article 2 (1) (a) Another important point is that public education development plans have proved to be an inelastic design tool and have not become the basis for public education decision-making. Therefore, the amendment aims to put planning on a new basis in order to make use of capacity, making it more efficient by comparing the number of children, pupils and the number of seats for different public education tasks each year. This method provides substantial information to establish and base the annual ministerial decision-making process; this is the 14th bill. §a or point (a). The bill also provides for the possibility for the Hungarian vocational training school - also mentioned by the Secretary of State - to establish a member institution and to carry out training across borders, provided that the domestic law of the place of training permits or does not restrict this possibility by an international contract; point 16 of the bill. He also mentioned the provision on integration, learning and behavioural confused children, Mr Secretary of State; here it is important to stress that subject exemption is less conducive to knowledge-enhancing and catching up. In the whole system of public education, it is an effort not to be labeled and branded. The result of the subject exemption may be that the student leaves the school with lower skills and knowledge, which would adversely affect higher education and the world of work; the bill 18. Article 2 (1) (a) It has also been mentioned that the bill facilitates the qualifications of teachers to fulfil their duties in order to alleviate the shortage of teachers, only in cases where it can be proven that they cannot find a teacher who is qualified and qualified for the course. The amendments were also developed on the basis of a proposal from the working groups of the Public Education Round Table, in particular the pedagogical Employment Working Group, the various professional organisations and the National Pedagogist Faculty, through which the primary objective was to alleviate the current educational shortage. Here, Mr Secretary of State has explained the other circumstances of this issue. Here it is important to refer back to me that this is not a new problem, it has been present for several decades, in a latent way, but at the same time it was brought to the surface by state institution maintenance. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, on several occasions, during the various debates on education, it has been mentioned that one of the very important reasons for the introduction of state institution-keeping in 2010 was that we inherited an extremely fragmented school system. These problems could not be brought to the national public in the case of fragmented schools with a significant, municipal reservation. It is an interesting fact, by the way, that at that time professional representation or professional and representative organisations were not as strongly heard on this issue as they are today. It is therefore important to address this problem in the way it is, in fact, that it is a long-standing problem, a possible means to remedy this problem is now being formulated in the proposal before us. Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned concrete examples, which I would not like to go into further detail. Therefore, it was essential for the drafting of the amendments to address children by professionals with adequate professional knowledge, while ensuring a framework for the safe organisation of the provision of tasks. In addition, the amendment provides an opportunity for teachers to make an effective contribution to the performance of professional tasks by obtaining the appropriate skills; the bill 19 Article 2 (1) (a) There are many other proposals and provisions in the bill before us. Once again, I would like to invite my fellow Members to look at the proposal itself, what the intention is, what means the legislator is trying to seize on the basis of intention, in order to answer these questions that are present, and to address any problems. Thank you very much for listening and for supporting the proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-04-138	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-04-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I understand why this package of laws and this salad law is on the table. Allow me to deal with your most painful points and to highlight to ourselves and to all of us what has led to this. Because it is possible to argue whether, say, centralisation is a good or not tool in education policy, to argue that the National Basic Science Plan, which includes our national knowledge canon, is a good tool or not a good tool for teaching children in the modern world. Of course, what we see, and I would like to come straight to the first reason, is that there is now a cumulative situation of education, whether it is a parent or a teacher or a child, that is to say, a specific way out of this system. Therefore, in recent years there has been a level of abandonment, and I will also mention this, which is one of the pressures of this bill being here, which the Hungarian teaching profession has not seen for a very long time, and I think that the stupid and unnecessary sudden retirements are another reason why we have to talk about it here today. So, in recent years, we have had quite a lot of discussions with each other about certain educational policy instruments, directions, options. Today, the PISA results have shown how this system does not work, but the 43,000 children out of the system show the fundamental failure of your education policy. There's an argument, but I don't think there's one, and that's what really tilted a little inside, and it's heartbreaking, and it goes a little beyond our political struggles and our public struggles. You can't argue, please, that children in difficulty are helped by the state or not, or what they do to help them or not. So there is one point where, I think, we really are not talking about political and power issues, not arguing, of course, that everyone is always looking out for the child's interests, of course, from the right and left. Normal, I do not think, in a thinker with minimal humanity, that there is no need to pay particular attention to children with congenital or established learning and integration difficulties, even for a few years, that they do not need to be dealt with by trained teachers with special skills and knowledge. You can't look for a solution in this direction under pressure, even if some organisations are, by the way, encouraging you to do so, or saying that you should legalise an illegal system that has already been in place, because we have been doing so for years, anyway. You can't go in this direction with the politician and the leadership. This is what the heartbreaking point of the Education Salad Act before us is about, and the law proposes that children with mild and moderate mental disabilities should not be given the care they have to live a full life with which they have the chance to live a self-sustaining, happy life. Therefore, the critical point of the draft is that this time not only qualified teachers, but also teachers who are not prepared for this task, will be able to teach certain subjects for children with mild and moderate mental disabilities. A society's strength and humanity is very precise about how it treats the fallen and how it treats those in need of special attention. The government that crushes the weak is not strong, but stupid and inhuman, and, in my opinion, very weak. The most inhuman part of the entire package of proposals is that, on the basis of certain points, at least, it is clear to me that the amendment is very consciously trying to push children with difficulty out of the opportunities for education. [[19.40]] The amendment would also remove the possibility of exempting students and children with Btm who have difficulty in integration, learning and conduct, including dyslexic, dysgraphic and discalculative, from classification with merit marks. This would put about 100,000 students in a very difficult position. There are many children in education today who at this age may not necessarily be found, for example, dyslexic or unclear that they will not be exonerated in some way. Thus, when they are a few years old, they are forced to experience failure by the new legislation that can stamp on a child's life. The best I can do is use the comparison of the just Together is Chance Group to make sense of what's going on. They put it this way: you can't motivate a child who can't swim by swimming, son, because we're going to grade from here on out. I'd like to tell you a few more problems, something important to know about this. Partial or full exemption may be granted by the district or county expert committees. In the case of btm diagnostics, the expert committees in the district of education issue the expert opinion, in the case of sni-diagnostics, to which the Secretary of State pointed out the distinction, the county expert committees issue the expert opinion. If the submitted draft legislative amendment is adopted, partial and full exemption will only be issued by county expert committees, but only in the case of sni-diagnosis. We have a professional problem with that. The first is to eliminate a very well-established procedure. In addition, this may bring about a re-alignment of the supply system when it has not fully recovered from the previous transformation. Professionals cannot be transferred to county experts suddenly because they also work on other professional tasks: educational advice, early development and so on. In addition, this is a task with high stress and high professional skills that not all professionals can take on. This also involves an increase in professional shortages. In addition, the county expert committees have a very large waiting list everywhere. They still can't keep up with the deadlines. There will be huge waiting lists, and many parents are already submitting a lot of complaints to the Ombudsman about this. In addition, the principle of phasm in the assessment of children is better enforced by process diagnostics in the academic expert committees by working with children. So you'd better stay there, by the way. In addition, I find it problematic that sometimes the btm category is washed together with the sni in the draft law. Due to a partial or full exemption, not all children need to be sni-sty, but the benefits given in the btm category, i.e. equal opportunities, as well as easier placement on the labour market and integration into society, would greatly help children and learners. This proposal could also generate the cessation and withdrawal of the job of professionals, developers and educators involved in the care of btm, even though the primary objective would be to start prevention as soon as possible - prevention, prevention - carried out by these professionals in educational institutions, kindergartens and schools. Since 2010 - and I would like to draw your attention here when you tell me, fellow politicians, that the problems that we are now dealing with have been going on for a very long time. Yes, these were earlier, even under our governments, but we were constantly trying to correct it. However, after 2010, you, the government, continuously reduced the number of students who could be admitted to medical education. In 2010, 1300 students were allowed to participate, this year they can hire 1090 students. And every specialist here matters, and you know it. I believe that this draft legislation can be read as a declaration of admission. By wanting to reduce the professional expectations of teaching and the expectations of therapeutic pedagogical work, you admit that essentially whatever you do, it simply doesn't work. There's less teachers than they used to be. And unfortunately, the numbers show the same. Only in this year's academic year - and here is the point, for which you need action very quickly - 951 teachers and 3019 teachers have ceased teaching. Of these, 565 teachers and 840 teachers retired. In contrast, only 353 teachers and 482 teachers began their teaching careers. Summa summarum: 4,000 people only this year, and of which 1,300 retired, the rest left the track. That's the problem. That's a hell of a way to leave. That's what's really forcing the government to do right now. I'm running out of time. Finally, the third cardinal thing I want to mention will be taught in certain regions of the country, in certain areas without education. Please, until 2009, the previous governments continued to do their best, and by 2009 we managed not to teach children without a teacher's degree, and we paid attention at the same time to the need for pedagogical education in certain practical jobs. The teaching profession - I'm not, my mother was, you know, who are teachers themselves - is a profession. To teach a child something, to listen to his soul, psychologically, is a separate profession. You can be a wonderful biologist, but that doesn't mean you can teach the kids. Plus, it's a hard-core job. You can't slap kids against a wall at the end of the day. That's the point of pedagogy, which is why I think they should be placed at the top of a society in appreciation. So, summa summarum, you weren't supposed to clean out retired teachers from the system. Retiremental educators should also be called back, who may be, as well as retired teachers, with pensions, so that they can work in some form in contractual relations. I know there's a lot of pressure. This has also come from the previous systems, but it is also largely due to your poor education policy. But politics - and this is not a question of ideology - can never go away in the direction of not dealing with children by professionals or teachers who have no education, and we simply cannot afford to do so. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2017-05-04-140	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-04-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have been accustomed here in Parliament to the fact that, when it comes to laws dealing with education, opposition representatives take every opportunity to use the laws of education for political purposes by slipping the statements contained in the bill. I'm giving you an example of my statement because I don't like to talk in the air. The MSZP Member before me said that we retired the teachers foolishly, and that we caused a shortage of teachers, but that is not the case. I know very well that only teachers working in deficiency professions received all the benefits, all the concessions, but where there were too many in certain professions and very many have done so that young beginners can get a job when they reach retirement age, we have sent them to retirement. Well, these slides serve the purpose of grabbing every means to make Fidesz-KDNP's education policy look false and bad, against which, I believe, we must raise our voice in the name of the truth. We've also gotten used to the fact that the Teachers' Union is threatening to call a strike committee. That's what happened now. I have before me a letter from the President of the Teachers' Union, sent to several recipients, including our group leader, and indicated that he would initiate a meeting of the Strike Committee, even though it is a bill with a very important professional body, namely the Education Round Table and its member, the National Teacher's Faculty, which was not only formally discussed, but also presented a few of its passages to their proposal by the Minister for Education. [[19.50]] So I'm asking you, why is the Pedagogical Union on strike? Who in this country knows more about professional issues, such as the employment issue of teachers. Once they propose a professionally founded proposal, on what basis does the Pedagogical Union declare a strike? Of course, it's the right of his heart, and the law allows it. I just wanted to point out that the laymen, if any, who are still following the parliamentary broadcasts at this late hour, should not be misled by these false allegations or by the subsequent strike threats. We are discussing a very well-founded, very thought-out bill that fits the perspective of the education government here in Parliament. I do not wish to go through all of this because, on the one hand, the Secretary of State gave a very exhaustive and very reliable explanation, and the spokesperson of Fidesz also interpreted this in detail. I would like to point out a few points of view, together with an explanation of why the Christian Democratic People's Party supports these proposals and the whole of the law. Of course, we support the amendments that put higher education teachers in a better position, such as their grade of payment, or that the assistant teacher, if he has completed his doctoral degree, should be appointed assistant in three years' time. This remedys the unworthy situation which has been common in higher education so far, that the employer has not had such an obligation. You can only approve of that. For many years, the education government has made a clear effort not to allow money and institutions to go out uncontrolled by non-compliance with the rules. This concept is based on the fact that scholarships have been registered by the Education Office for some time. We can only endorse the fact that both the public service scholarship students and the Hungarian public scholarship students are registered in a uniform system, which is necessary to ensure that no one is allowed to apply for a public scholarship or spend taxpayers' money beyond the statutory deadline, as this is the budget. We agree with the renewal of the Senate every four years, which is in line with the democratic principle, and we also agree that the Senate's responsibility for institutional coordination of teacher training is determined by the law. The National Higher Education Act, which was established in 2011, provided for the renewal of teacher training, which I do not want to repeat here, I think most of us know and also provided that teacher training should have an institutional centre, a teacher training institute, but there is still much to be done in this area. By assigning the law as a coordinating task of the Senate, it can only be hoped that it will become a more conceptual and truly more important task in the real world of higher education institutions that are training teachers. It is only possible to agree with the rules on the Commissioner for Educational Rights. I would stress the fact that no one can order or take orders from anyone. This refers to the independence of the institution of the Ombudsman. Otherwise, it is an institution that the Hungarian education law system can be proud of, because it is still quite unique that the Commissioner for Separate Educational Rights is guarding the compliance and enforcement of rights. There is no man in this country who has not been shaken by the tragedy of January in Verona, so it is only possible to agree with the law in which the head of the institution is responsible for the field trips and requires the introduction of certain rules. In case of cross-border excursions, this should also be taken into account, as these are, however much they go to Hungarian territory, in a legal sense, foreign excursions. If there's bus trips like this, don't let any tragedy happen. We can only support the law that, at the initiative of parents, the first grade can be repeated and there should be no trace of that. For the record, it was in a previous law. I felt sorry for him when he missed it, because it is the flexible principle that children's development is at a different pace, and there are wise, reasonable parents who realize that they will help their children more if they extend their initial education period by a year, and there is no evidence that the child receives, say, an inadequate certificate. And the same is true in the ninth grade. We can support that, too. We also support regulation for children with btm. A person who is struggling with integration, learning and behavioral dysfunction is not a problem with his intelligence, but with his willpower, his psyche, which is difficult to combine with, say, not evaluating it from Hungarian, history and mathematics. They obviously deserve special treatment and demand it at all levels of school, but they're not sick children, they're not people who have problems that can't be corrected. Today, pedagogy must be so differentiated and, in practice, increasingly differentiated that it helps these children to thrive in later life. By the way, the rules have been described by the Secretary of State; there are many different paths here. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the most controversial issue, the forced release of the medical educator, that is what I would call it. Dear fellow Members, ask yourself, if there really isn't a child with a mild or moderate mental disability in our kinship, would they decide not to learn singing, not to sing, or to sing the group, or to say that anyone with a vocal education can sing, sing, sing, or sing, if they are in our kinship. It is important that the child sings because growing up without music can lead to emotional bleakness. If he's trained as a medical educator, it may be more effective, but it's not harmful to him. In addition, to put it mildly, it is not fair to say that this has come up as a result of our education policy. Before 2010, it was already apparent that there were serious teachers' shortages, and that the pedagogical society had grown old, yet the pay of teachers had not been increased, there were circumstances in the educational institutions that leaving the field had begun, because the vast majority of teachers did not share the liberal principles that had been communicated by the then educational policy. Therefore, as of 2010, we have created the pedagogical career with great force, with a significant increase in salaries, and the Klebelsberg scholarship has led to an increase in the number of teachers' students. But, my dear colleagues, how many years does it take to get out of a teacher training system so many people can make up for the ever-increasing lack of teachers? Well, at least a decade, if it wasn't a lifetime, because there were such shortages. And the education policy of the preventive governments did not pay any attention to this. Recognizing this situation, we have taken the necessary steps, but the time has not yet come for it to result. Another example is natural sciences, where more people apply, but today there are still not enough. So the perception of an educational politician that a change in education often does not show its effect until 20 years later is almost as basic as whether he can read and write. [[20.00]] Asking that in two years or four years, to remedy what the past 20 years have failed is simply unprofessional and tells us that there is no knowledge of educational processes. I must think that there is something political behind this, which is mainly explained a year before the elections, although it cannot be approved. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Yes, fellow Members of the opposition, I must say that this is not fair in this way, because I do not assume that you do not know that a four to five-year teaching course, where a student comes out in one year with a number x, will take 5 to 10 years to fill up the gap that the previous ones did not make up for. Therefore, the adjectives that we are inhuman here, of course I am referring to the education policy of Fidesz-KDNP, or to expel the children, are again not fair claims. You know very well that's not what this is about, but you're misinterpreting the phenomena. Overall, KDNP supports this bill with a good heart and a good conscience and requires success in enforcing it. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-04-142	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-04-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It seems to me that there are quite a few points in which there has been a debate with both professional organisations, teachers' unions, opposition parties and the government's position, so I would like to mention them first. Teachers are a matter of unskilled teaching, and I think it is a substantive problem where no one should close their eyes or put this whole issue in a party political dimension. I could tell you, too, what kind of measures have been taken by governments that have led to a shortage of teachers in Hungary, but it doesn't mean we're getting ahead of ourselves if I do this now. However, I must draw attention to some of the important things that I believe have contributed to the lack of teachers in the current government. On the one hand, about 4,000 teachers leave the education system every year is a huge problem, a huge number, and teacher training may not be able to replace this number. If so many quit each year, then the question arises how we can replace the exits and the missing teachers in the system. That's not what's happening right now. So the situation is not getting any better, let alone getting better, it's getting worse. Congresswoman Hoffmann spoke about the need for a medical educator on the proposal and mentioned that the signs of a teacher's shortage were visible before 2010. That's true. There are subjects for which there were not a sufficient number of specialized teachers to teach at the time, and, for example, the introduction and possibility of a single teacher's education contributed greatly to the fact that this was the case. At the same time, if this situation had already been seen before 2010, there would be expected results by 2017 that show at least in terms of student numbers and predict that in the coming years there will be an increase in the number of higher education institutions, either in those subjects or even in the case of medical educators. But we can't talk about that. If it had been seen before 2010, that this situation would have taken place, it would have been possible to achieve results in seven years. But no! The number of leavers is increasing, and the shortage of teachers has appeared as a problem in Budapest, even in places considered as elite schools, not only in the classical field of science or even in the field of therapeutic education, but also in the case of teachers. While a few years ago, even dozens of applicants submitted their applications to a teaching post, there are places where no one will apply. This is where we talk about the career model in this situation. Because obviously, there are professional reasons for the lack of teachers, how attractive it is for young people to be teachers, and there is also a part of the budget, how attractive it is, how secure it is, how decent it is to earn a decent living. Without taking the results that have actually been made in this area, it is a very important circumstance that teachers' wages have been separated from the minimum wage. According to the original plans, in January each year, together with an increase in the minimum wage, they would have provided a value-reliance for teachers' wages. Thus, compared to the minimum wage, he would have kept the almost double the salary of the beginner teachers that he almost achieved when he introduced the career model. Just because it is not tied to the minimum wage, the scale of the scissors between the minimum wage and teachers' salaries has now been reduced to a rate of about 1.3-1,4-fold the wage of the minimum wage for beginner educators. And if you add that compared to the minimum wage of a skilled worker, a beginner educator earns a net of HUF 14,000 more, then this is a figure, supplemented by the previous one, which makes a significant contribution to the fact that there is and will be a shortage of teachers. The need to increase the minimum wage should not be taken into account again, the introduction and increase of minimum wage for skilled workers is justified, but it should be noted that teachers' wages are not valuable compared to the minimum wage, which results in this situation. With regard to the protests of the various professional organisations, or even, specifically, the pedagogical union, I think that we should all be pleased to have as many teachers' organisations as possible involved in the opinion of educational laws, even if they give a radical opinion. In no way would I like to see the National Pedagogical Faculty, which should fulfil the function of a technical negotiating body, or a trade union which should fulfil an employee representation function, confused their role with each other, not denying the right of the Pedagogist Faculty to speak on employee interest issues, if it is about the education sector, nor even the right of the trade union to express itself in professional matters. The solution contained in the bill to address the shortage of teachers is, I think, temporarily acceptable. It is acceptable that in areas where they are otherwise unable to solve education with a specialist teacher or a medical educator due to a shortage, there, if there is a affinity and opportunity for other teachers, we involve them and care, if it is truncated, but it is ensured. The problem is that no measures are included in this proposal to resolve the situation in the long term. I think it would be possible to accept in substance that we are now temporarily improving the situation by making these facilitations if we saw the strategy of how the government will alleviate the shortage of teachers. How will the situation that has taken place over the past few years be resolved, I will not say any years or specific time bands, and the decisions of the past periods have been followed? But since this is not in it, it is therefore feared that such a solution will be created, which will help the various institutions to overcome the situation, but in the long term they will get used to it, and the shift towards professional solutions will not happen. [[20.10]] Another question is the question of certain btm children. I find your argument here very strange that the fact that they are exempted from the assessment is adversely affecting them. Sometimes I don't know if you really believe what you're saying about these things, because this is an area in which almost the whole profession considers it justified that, according to the decisions of the expert committees, these children should, in particular, be subject to individual treatment. Obviously, each child needs and deserves individual treatment, but who has difficulties, and who not only has difficulty in integration or conduct, but also has learning difficulties; for these children, it is indeed justified that they should be treated in a way that is different from that which is due to children who are not facing such difficulties or to them. In fact, I do not understand what professional reasons there are to justify that these children will not lose their motivation, they will not feel more disadvantaged by being treated in the same way, with whom they are otherwise unable to compete, because they are struggling, and this individual treatment, this individual treatment that they have received so far, will not be received. In addition, there are several measures that are clearly eligible and to be supported, but once again, as a salad law, we will have to vote on parts that are not related to each other by pressing a button. Here we can mention the adjunior reclassification, as well as the various data protection regulations, which Mr. State Secretary also spoke about. So they are indeed eligible parts of the bill. There are some legal inaccuracies on which we will also submit amendments, but these are the main reasons why we cannot support the bill in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-04-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply will now speak. I give the floor to Szabolcs Szabó in 15 minutes.
u2017-05-04-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, we have been very busy this evening, so it is unlikely that many people will be following the meeting; we will be holding the session of the Cultural Committee here again in plenary. I don't want to make the beginning of it too much, because Rózsa Hoffmann has already advanced it, so I don't have to say that, of course, a opposition politician, when an education salad law comes in, always says that, yes, the fact is that in recent years we have seen quite a few of these salad laws, there has always been comments from the pro-government representatives about this, that this will make public education and higher education even better, and all other areas that are affected by the salad law; opposition representatives always say that they have caused huge chaos, and that these gratings have actually managed to keep the education of chaos deeper and deeper. I think that we are not going to agree or agree on this, so I would just like to record this as a fact that I still think that what is going on in public education and higher education is very wrong. And let the voters and the students and the people who work there decide whether they like it or not. Let's actually look at the elements of this educational package. Let's start with the sections on higher education. On the one hand, it addresses a very old problem and is absolutely welcome, which can be read in the presentation, in order to make it compulsory for the teaching assistant colleagues with the right conditions to be promoted to senior lecturers if they have been waiting for a certain period of time. I was lucky enough to do that because my boss was powerful enough, and he beat the table so long that I might have been appointed within six months, but I have a colleague who's been waiting for three or four years, and it's really unfair. This is not about pay, of course, this is also important in itself, because this gross amount of 50-60 thousand HUF, which is between the assistant teacher and the assistant assistant, is not negligible in addition to relatively low higher education teaching wages, but it is also an important element of appreciation, I think. Once you have your Ph.D. degree, please promote your university. So I can only support that. In fact, honestly, I'd be a little more firm about that. There is a deadline of 1 September 2018 in the Act. I think that this is not a measure related to educational cycles, but a measure that fits into budgetary cycles, so it should be tied to 1 January, it doesn't make any sense for 1 September, and then we will not push it back, but we will move it forward, it is going to be the negotiation of the budget law, it is not a huge amount. I think it is safe to move this measure forward to 1 January 2018. I have also tabled an amendment, and I hope that the pro-government colleagues will also support it. Then, which concerns higher education, again a lot of special rules are being introduced and amended to the National University of Public Service, and this has already been discussed in detail, perhaps in the most detail, Mr Kucsák. Of course, I have no professional objection to this; at most, I have a bad feeling about such salad laws, when new elements of the special rules always appear at the National University of Public Service, as if it were a special institution in Hungarian higher education, which, as such, I do not know, is being polished here and constantly highlighted. So, you have such a bad feeling. I've never seen Eötvös University of Technology before, but I don't even remember making separate laws, and every single time. So you just have a bad feeling about it. But I'm telling you, I don't have a professional excuse. Indeed, the regulation of the Senate's election is changing, although there are rather minor technical clarifications and details, some not very substantial changes, I think. Here, I would note only in parentheses that once we get to the point where we probably will be left with this, that we will actually consider the composition of the Senate, for example, and the role of student self-governments, we should probably think about whether, as we know them, there is a place in the Senate, for example, because let us be honest, this is a system that is not working well. We've just released what we think about this on behalf of the Joint. As regards the development of higher education in general, we said that we would abolish Student Credit2, make the first degree free of charge, provide language training in higher education for everyone, and note that otherwise we would abolish the HÖK in this form and put it out of the Senate. But that was just a parentheses comment on my part. Then there is an interesting amendment concerning the system of appeals in connection with the recruitment process. I understand that there has been a change in the regulation of the administrative procedure, and this has to be redirected, so this is a technical clarification of the law, I fully understand, but what I thought about that change of administrative procedural rules, I now see in practice, and I have a very bad feeling when I read that the first-degree decision with the communication will become final, there is no appeal, if anyone has an objection, go to court. For example, the admission procedure has not looked like this in Hungary so far, and I found this rather strange, but I tell you, even when the law on administrative proceedings changed. I understand this is a technical transfer. Then there's a very interesting change in 34. § changes the rules of teacher training, and it is stated that administrative coordination of teacher further education will be carried out by the Chancellor. What the hell the chancellor has to do with educating, I don't understand, but of course, because we said from the beginning - I know we don't agree, but that's what the world is like - what we see the chancellor at all as a serious restriction on the autonomy of higher education. [[20.20]] And then, in recent years, we have seen the chancellor always receive new tasks, always with newer rights, and now it is also part of the administrative coordination of pedagogical further education, so he doesn't have bills, which was originally said to fix the finances. This is administrative coordination. In my mind, it's not exactly a chip of bills, but we may not agree on that either. Then there's the amendment to the Public Education Act. I don't have to talk about this for a very long time, because colleagues have told me everything about pro and versus. Interestingly, there is now a situation where I agree with opposition representatives on certain elements and I agree on certain elements with pro-government representatives. For example, in which I can agree with Rose Hoffmann, it rarely happens, for example, that she is involved in this amendment of the law, if I remember correctly, in Article 18. In paragraph 3, if the particular pedagogue's work cannot be completed with a colleague of sufficient qualifications, it is possible to appoint a teacher who can obtain it within a closed deadline. Just so you understand, everyone who may be listening to us, I'm a geographer, ergo I couldn't teach, but if this law comes into force, if I interpret it correctly, I'd go teach geography in a high school, and I'm willing to do, within x years, I think I'll be doing, like, a supplemental course in teaching teachers at one of the universities, so I can teach geographers there. And I think that in the case of certain objects it is okay, for example, in the case of natural sciences, mentioned by Rózsa Hoffmann, say, geography, biology, chemistry, that is completely acceptable. In parentheses, for example, when Fassior High School was at the forefront of the world, it was at the top of the world because such academics were there, and there were many researchers there. Another question is that I think it's a little skin-lined in this circle where the law allows it, because let's just say, I think drama pedagogy or dance pedagogy is a little different than, say, biology or chemistry. So it's more of a pedagogical skill. So someone may be a very good folk dancer, but that doesn't make him a dance educator. So this is a completely different category. [[Dr. László Pósán: Nor is he an air gymnast.]] And he can't be an air gymnast, really. And I have the same opinion about drama pedagogy. Drama pedagogy is a much more serious pedagogical activity than explaining to you that disk tectonics is what - to set a concrete example. In which I must fully agree with opposition representatives, it concerns the education of children with mild and moderate mental disabilities. This has been thoroughly searched by colleagues. I don't have to tell you what this bill is about. I think that, in fact, we have to admit that there is a shortage of teachers with adequate qualifications here, that is a fact. I do not think that, after seven years of government, we should refer to the fact that, unfortunately, this is what we inherited. After all, seven years, seven years, would have been a real step forward. But let's just say they found out they were doing it wrong, and now they're going in a new direction, but then we'd see that it's okay, but how it's going to start or in what direction, that there's some substance in front of us. But, no, it's a change of policy on how to grating and crafting the existing situation. This is not the same as the fact that there is no teacher-educated researcher, let's say, a class at a high school, provided that within x years he acquires a teaching degree. 'Cause we're talking about kids that need to be dealt with in a very special way. And if you have a colleague with inadequate education to deal with these children, then on the one hand, the child will not progress as you can and on the other hand, the teacher will have a huge failure experience. 'Cause no one's gonna tell me that this kind of teacher is gonna be successful. Because it's not about what the Hoffmann Rose said, "Oh, it's good to sing, sit down, and then we'll sing "I don't know what run or scout." This is a more complex problem compared to this, so I can't agree with that, and I would be very interested to know what kind of medical education organization, advocacy or professional organization it was, which so requested, and asked for the justification which was then included in the bill. Because I find it hard to imagine that a professional organization would have said that this is what we are asking for. But if so, who was it specifically? 'Cause I'd love to talk to them, by the way, just as an interest in how they feel about it, because, God forbid, they can even convince me that they're right. Then, what might be highlighted, is that it is indeed a good thing that the Commissioner for Education's job description, tasks and other regulations appear in the law, in detail, I think that the Commissioner for Educational Rights regularly comes to us in the committee, has done quite a good job in recent years, practically in his person - we can say - he has fulfilled the hope the legislator had at the time to establish the Commissioner for Educational Rights function. So I totally agree with that. What I am interested to know, Mr. Secretary of State, is where the Hungarian vocational schools can operate foreign member institutions, and where the regulation with the content comes from. Usually, when we read this, we always end up having such a demand from a specific institution, because they want to open a member institution somewhere. That's what I'm curious about, specifically, where this demand came from, where it came from, why it wants to run a member institution like this. So, as a summary, I can say that I agree with some of it, most of it, not this package of laws. I have submitted modifications, I have mentioned the promotion of the assistant professors, and I would like to point out that, in the case of medical educators, children with mild and moderate mental disabilities cannot be taught by medical teachers, I would take it out of this, so we suggested leaving. In the case of class-teacher tasks, the hours indicated in the law amendment have been doubled for both numbers, and we believe that it is important for the class-masters to recognise them better, so we recommend this. And what has been said here by a number of colleagues is that they would use a much stricter rule than evaluation and rating, and they would not use it so extensively for children with learning disabilities, we do not consider it a good direction. I'm sorry I overslept.
u2017-05-04-146	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2017-05-04-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, Dear House, For nationalities, minority communities and individuals, the effective and proper functioning of public education and vocational higher education institutions is crucial. On behalf of the Government, T/15376. The National Assembly's Committee of Nationalities of Hungary asked for it in the interests of teachers, educators, educators and educators who participated in ethnic education, but in the interest of the students of nationality. Although I am now responding to only certain elements of the bill, I will not address the question of teachers working in higher education, although higher education is a very important area for us as well, especially in the field of education and educator training. [[20.30]] Point 3 of the submitted bill is the 2011 CXC on national public education. It seeks to amend the law. Article 6 Article 4 (1) of the National Public Education Act. Article 4 of the Act, which lists the tasks of the educational institution, supplementing it with point 4, is habilitation for health and pedagogical purposes, rehabilitation. Point 2 is a child with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties, whose personality development is difficult or shows specific trends, but not defined as having a specific educational need. Point 4 encapsulates the task of providing a wide range of opportunities for educational institutions and educators to provide talent for students with special talents and talents. It also covers the area of activity that contributes to the development of students who, because of their social and social situation and their subsequent break-off, deserve special attention in public education in Hungary; this is the individual or group teaching profession outside the classroom, which serves the development of students. The involvement of national minority pupils is significant in all aspects, as those in national minority education undertake significant extra work in all types of schools on account of the additional 5 ethnic language lessons to be devoted to the learning of nationality and the participation in and preparation for, but also the whole range of activities outside the course of teaching for the culture of nationality. Unfortunately, the addition of the 4th point to the bill is an important group of young learners, because of the involvement of many families and students, a high number of Roma-born children in health and pedagogical habilitation and rehabilitation, who may need health and pedagogical rehabilitation due to certain social disadvantages. Rehabilitation for educational institutions is also the organised activity that society provides for long-term or permanent disabled children to retake or occupy their place in school communities in society with their skills still at their disposal. Rehabilitation here is a planned, joint and coordinated, individualised application of educational, employment measures, and the involvement of the person to be rehabilitated is essential. Therefore, the positive attitude of the person's environment is also decisive, in which the organisations of ethnic communities should also play a role. Now that Parliament is also discussing the amendment of the Law on Equal Treatment and Equal Opportunities or the Child Protection Act, when integration represents a decisive direction for ensuring student development in public education, the impact of this amending proposal can be a significant step forward for people with disabilities. The placement of people with various health and pedagogical difficulties in healthy and well-developed student communities promotes the social integration and integration of special education, i.e. the stigma of therapeutic pedagogical employment, the dissolution of stereotypes that can be linked to it, the social integration of educated pupils raised in this branch of public education, and the integration of the child at an early stage of life. It is clear that special development needs continue to exist, and specific educational needs must be continued by well-trained teachers, development educators and educators. Point 4a does not mean that special institutions can report, if you like, the need to become redundant in such a way segmented institutions reserved and operated for people with severe disabilities, and we hope that there will always be a sufficient number of professionals in the country to carry out difficult tasks, who do the habilitation and rehabilitation activities, as well as in the so-called normal institutions as well as medical educators and psychologists. Our committee understands the question of foreign school trips and welcomes it in some respects, while at the same time seeking the possibility that the excursions to their home country for the study groups of nationalities living in Hungary can also be carried out with the help of the educational wallet of the mother countries, with the help of applications in Hungary or with the support of EMMI. During the studies of all ethnic students, get to the country whose language, culture and traditions are an essential part of his life! A good relationship with fellow nations, learning about the history of the mother country, its typical natural, social and cultural values, and a good knowledge of it is a priority in the education of ethnicity. T/15376. Bill No 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 submitted on behalf of the Government The Committee can agree with the provisions of Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure. Welcomes the additions to the Education Rights Commissioner, and the role of the Commissioner of Education Rights is also interesting to us because of the specific characteristics of national education. The bill is 16. §2 of the Act can be a new opportunity for ethnic gymnasiums and ethnic vocational schools, if and if they offer training which is considered to be a lack of training in neighbouring mother countries, an undeveloped vocational training programme, and obviously also provide theoretical and practical vocational training in the Hungarian language to Hungarian communities living across the border. Since our membership in the European Union, we have seen the implementation of projects involving professional, technical modernisation, development of teaching tools, further education and student exchange programmes in the field of public education and higher education, in the case of a number of successful forms of cooperation among all the parties involved in joint projects, especially in the case of nationalities living along the border. Our Committee can therefore also agree with this addition. Article 19 The possibilities of § 2, namely the issue of the absence of teachers with professional qualifications, are also important for the institutions of nationality, and the provision of an appropriate teacher in our schools also causes serious difficulties, especially where specific subjects need to be taught in two languages, so that temporary solutions to the bill can also lead to temporary improvement in the functioning of our schools. In addition to the use, development, teaching, learning or deepening of the language of nationalities, the exchange of modern pedagogical methodological knowledge and their joint development is a good aim for innovation. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary requests that, during the negotiation and adoption of the bill, the representative ladies and gentlemen take decisions in accordance with the interests of student youth. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for listening.
u2017-05-04-148	Thank you very much for Erika Kissné Köles' speech on Slovenian ethnicity. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First of all, Congressman László Kucsák, Fidesz, has applied, and I give the floor to him.
u2017-05-04-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to reflect on one or two of the things that have been said so far. First, I would like to refer you back to Dora Dúró's words. Obviously, we thank you for the fact that, if there is one in the material in which we can agree, it is a temporary measure, and I can confirm that, because it is included in the material, and I think that the temporary measure, opening up an opportunity, can move this thing forward. So, of course, I do not agree with what Szabolcs Szabó said today, he also used the expression "grating" - his soul on it! But if you've mentioned a grating that you don't even know how many times this has happened in relation to educational laws, this is not Tippmix, but as an opportunity, I would like to offer you the opportunity to examine how many times this has happened during socialist-liberal governments. [[20.40]] I take the liberty of saying this only because there are a lot of people in opposition benches who considered it the best of existing worlds and existing education laws. Compared to that, if you've reached 50 in the count of changes, take a deep breath and move on, because there's a lot more going on than that. I myself was a practicing educator and a practicing head of the institution, and sometimes we were rushing our heads to see if it had changed again. And, of course, you had to rebutton the local regulators. The debate is not likely to be resolved now that the socialists see what has led them to believe that there are not enough candidates for certain pedagogical positions, so I would not really open this right now. On the other hand, I could say or ask, as a rhetorical question, who prevented trade unions from participating in the round table of public education? The Secretary of State has invited them several times, and we have repeatedly suggested that they join in. They could have expressed their opinion there. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-150	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi will have the floor.
u2017-05-04-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry Rose Hoffmann left. For someone who, in my opinion, started a new era after 2010, I put it very fairly, and I clearly indicated that some of the problems are dated from our period, more precisely the previous one - we... I was a child at the time, so from the previous period, but in a significant part... I have referred to how many have left the course, and it has accelerated very quickly thanks to your education policy over the past few years. I would also like to say that you also mentioned that you were forced to retire. I was wrong to put it this way, but I think I have already indicated that this should have been re-employed in addition to the pension, that this should have been resolved and not taken away. And what I would like to reflect on is that disqualifying is not the same as neglecting that area. Madam Secretary made a reference to not encouraging children. It takes motivation and pleasure, as Dóra Dúró said, to cover the knowledge of that little child with a simple number. There's a lot of kids, like dyslexic, but he's got excellent numbers, there's kids who are discalculative, but they draw beautifully. There were children in my immediate environment, including in the family, who were dyslexic, and certainly outgrew them, a good professional, a good school, and the whole education policy approach was about how these children could go on. Today, doctors, graduates, and good, loyal citizens of our country. But if they hadn't been helped at that moment in childhood - and the first Orbán government had this kind of openness and help - then these children would never have become graduates. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-04-152	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán in a 15-minute time frame, Fidesz.
u2017-05-04-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will pick up where Congresswoman Kunhalmi left off, saying that the departure has accelerated very quickly during the civilian government. The numbers are stubborn, so if you don't mind, I'll give you some numbers. In 2003, the number of full-time teachers in public education institutions was 185 thousand at the turn of 2009-2010, i.e. 169 458 persons before the civil government took office, currently - 2016 data - 171 687 persons. If you know the numbers, you don't have to explain it in more detail. Agnes Kunhalmi said that education can't go in this direction because it's not good; I agree with that; just let me say a few figures here, because, as I said, the numbers are stubborn. How the number of teachers without qualifications has evolved, I will give you a few examples taken to make it noticeable: in 2010, before or around the time of the change of government, 207 people taught Hungarian and literature without qualifications, in 2016-17 97. That's a lot, don't make a misunderstanding, but maybe it's less spectacular than 207. History was taught by 153 in 2010 without qualifications, with 60 in the 2016-17 academic year. For mathematics, 206 and 175 are 2016-17. 144 for German, now 62. Tech teacher 509, now 447. These are high numbers, I'm not arguing, I just want to indicate that there's a downward trend. I am only saying this because it might not hurt to take these facts into account in drawing up an opinion, because we might be able to have a more precise and professional debate. With regard to the underprivileged teacher, Mrs Dóra Dúró has already raised it, and she is absolutely right, the one-time teacher training was a dead end, and this was forced by the Balliberal Government, coupled with the Bologna-type training. On the basis of this, when and how these shortages occurred, let me give you a specific figure: at the University of Debrecen, there was a year, as I recall, in 2007, when there were nine teachers at the entire university. Now we have 120. That's not a lot, let's make no mistake. We are going back to what Congressman Kucsák pointed out, as Congresswoman Hoffmann said, that the replacement of these can't be snapped, that we don't have a magic rod, unfortunately, it's time, but we can see where it was about screwed up and how difficult it is to repair the messed up things. Dóra Dúró said that this applies to the therapeutic educational line, that in 2017 there should be certain things, results, which the government recognized or did not know. I'm saying you recognized him, and I'll give you some specifics - obviously you don't know everything either. Medical education in Hungary for a long time was actually a monopoly in Budapest, let's be honest. This is the first time that there will be training in the countryside, it will start at the University of Debrecen from autumn, and now almost 800 people in the first round have applied. However, this is rather revealing, and I think it also shows the trend that the government has recognised the problems and is trying to find a solution. By the way, starting a new training anywhere also does not go with a snap of the snap, the preparation of it, and the provision of human resources, requires serious preparations. And I think that the data that are known for the teachers' careers are pretty encouraging, too. I'm not saying that we made it to Canaan, because that's not true, but the rise in the proportion of teachers' students and the increase in the percentage of undivided teachers' students is undeniable throughout the country. Obviously, there are different data for each institution here, but that is the case. So I think it's a good trend. The fact that it should be treated as a temporary measure is clear, it is also included in the bill, five years. It is, of course, possible to argue that this is good, not good, many, not many, as many professional opinions conflict with it, so many statements can be made, but obviously we do not want to treat it as a permanent solution. As regards the section on children with special needs, I would just like to refer to the fact that there are also cases in the current law, criteria that allow them not to be dealt with by a medical educator. So there's one in force now. So it's not something from the devil, so make no mistake. Interestingly, what is now in force has somehow not harmed anyone's sensitivity, or how is that? I just want to say that this is a clarification, amendment to solve a problem, and not some new, world-displaced proposal. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó is wondering what the chancellor has to do with teacher training. I would like to point out that teachers' training centers at universities are responsible for the professional coordination of pedagogical training, teachers' further education is a completely different genre. [[20.50]] Obviously, the congressman doesn't know that because he admitted he wasn't a teacher. Well, teachers' further education in the first round, however incredible, management tasks, management work: you have to organize from different schools, who come, travel, the reimbursement of that, you have to report to the Education Office, keep records, a lot of things of this nature; this assumes the existence of an administrative apparatus, has financial implications. The vocational training is also multi-faceted and, in the case of professional subjects, the professionally responsible department of the relevant institution, as appropriate. In your case, geographer training requires a geographer, a mathematician, and a language teacher, the language department. But in order to be methodologically trained, it must be carried out in schools in the form of good practices and many things. So obviously there's a lot to organize, it's really a management task. To make this easy to understand: today, and now, there have been hundreds of private companies on the market, they have lived from it; not private companies have given it professional knowledge, private companies have organised professional knowledge for further training, bought from universities and other places competent professionals, but they have managed it. Here, in essence, when the chancellor would have administrative coordination tasks imposed by the law, he says that this management function should be carried out by the university through its professional administration system, and, of course, his professional part should be added on the part of the arms. I note in parentheses that also teachers' training centres, which, I repeat, are specifically responsible for teaching teachers, have a coordinating function. This is absolutely professional, with the maximum administrative part of which school to send the teacher candidate to to practice, but for example, they have no students and no instructors. He's an educator, a student of the faculty of higher education institutions. So that explains, for such a simple reason, you don't have to see some secret conspiracy in it, and the devil knows what all that is, because I know that they tend to do that, but the facts are stubborn things, that's not what it is. So I think, in this respect, the proposal is good. What I particularly welcome is what unfortunately had to be highlighted by a serious tragedy. For the first time, it is regulated and actually said what constitutes a school trip and a foreign school trip, because so far - respect for the exception, but don't sell a bag cat - most parents thought that if they went to a ski camp that some of the school teachers organised, there would be a school trip, or the school was behind it, and that's not the case. Here it is clearly defined what is considered to be this, and what is not defined here is not considered to be this, is not going to matter, and I think that is okay; just as it is okay that there are rules on the issue of responsibility. For my part, this is what I consider to be the most important element of the entire proposal, precisely for the sake of the children. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-04-154	Thank you very much, Congressman Pósan. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP.
u2017-05-04-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to Mr Pósan, both of his points. The first was to tell us how many full-time jobs were in 2003, 2010 and 2017. Now, the decline or increase in the number line - you know very well, Mr Pósán, that the last socialist government has removed job vacancies, and you know it very well. To the other question of how they could have stayed in our system even unqualified teachers. Please, there are two reasons for this. One of them was that it was a completely different system, where it happened that it could be held without qualifications, because it was a municipal reservation, where the mayor put in his own acquaintance without qualifications, but the law obliged him not to. There was one exception: the law required - and here is the key sentence - in five years, as you say, he spent his life doing it, unless he had been teaching an object in the system for 15 years before retirement. Well, that's why they're still in the system, but you must know this system very well and you know it, Mr. Pósán. The other is that the problem is that the number of these is going to increase again, and in my opinion it is not desirable, because there is another way to do it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-04-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Mr Szabolcs Szabó shall have the floor.
u2017-05-04-157	Thank you very much. Of course, I know exactly what the difference between further education and teacher training is, since I took part in teacher training, and not in teacher further training, so I know how different it is from teacher training. By the way, what the congressman said here had to be explained to him quite a long time ago, which, of course, shows from the bill what the chancellor's job is going to be there. That's what I'm talking about. He's about to do everything, and that's not what we were talking about in the beginning. We're talking about it, and we're not talking about it anymore, and we're talking about it, and we're talking about it all the time in every package of educational law that has an amendment to higher education law, there's got to be something guaranteed, we can watch it all, which gives the chancellor something again. We're gonna get to where he's gonna move into the Rector's office. Obviously I'm not telling you this, you know, the first measure in higher education will be to expel the chancellors. He's not part of the university community, he's being framed from the outside, which is why there's a problem with the chancellors. I forgot to tell you the other one. It's just that it's interesting that they actually put foreign school trips into the law, that's very interesting. I had to read it five times, and even then it wasn't clear, I had to agree with a lawyer that at that time the school trip across the border and the school trip abroad, which means the same grammatically, is well separated in the law; in the end, they twisted it until they said yes, but nevertheless, this regulation doesn't seem very good. Perhaps it should be more isolated that it is a trip to cross-border Hungarian territories and other foreign school trips, because otherwise the two mean the same thing, but they mean nothing else in the law. You could have handled this a little more elegantly. Thank you.
u2017-05-04-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Mr László Pósán shall have the floor.
u2017-05-04-159	Thank you. I just want to be more specific. Ágnes Kunhalmi said that job vacancies had been removed. No, honourable Member, you have closed a lot of schools, that is the fact. Szabolcs Szabó says that the chancellor was originally supposed to settle bills there. He probably slept through the debate at the time, because it was clearly stated at the chancellor's table, and it is also in the bill that the Chancellor is not an economic director, but the Chancellor is responsible for the whole operation, and this has not only an approval function for signing an invoice. So, I'm gonna have to ask you with all due respect to go through the higher education law. [[Szabolcs Szabó: And its development!]]
u2017-05-04-160	Thank you very much, Congressman Pósan. I will ask the Honourable Parliament if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, [[Dr. László Palkovics:]] The general debate is closed and the rapporteur, State Secretary, points out that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics.
u2017-05-04-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, Yes, this seems to be a dedicated meeting of the Committee on Culture, which is why I take the liberty of referring to some of the things that were said at the last meeting, where I also think we had a very good professional debate. I don't want to go any further on the numbers, but there are a few things I'd like to say to that. The main figures were presented by Congressman Pósán, which are indeed true. The number of teachers increased between 2010 and 2016 while other areas of job provision were also published: three hundred more places to be educated In Hungary, in the public education system compared to 2010, this means that access to education has changed substantially and the number of teachers has also increased. Of course, we have one negative thing: the number of children has decreased. So if you compare these, I think you're saying here that the government doesn't take this job seriously, it can't. [[21.00]] If we return for a moment to the students applying for teaching medicine, the numbers that Congresswoman Kunhalmi has said are true: 1059 students were hired in 2010. It has to be added that in 2010, however, of the 382 students we recruited, they were only state-funded students, but this is still an element of the previous education system. If you look at it, in 2016, 80 percent of the students recruited at that time, 793 students were state-funded students, and the trend is visible between the two. What can you read out of this? It is clear from this that the government's intention to make the field of therapeutic education truly state-funded and, by the way, there was no limit here is clear. I think - it has been said here that it is not apparent what the government is doing in this matter - these are exactly the measures. Congressman Pósan has mentioned our other measure, which is already visible this year. There will be two places after ELTE's Faculty of Pedagogics, which will be trained as a medical educator. One is the University of Debrecen, and the other is ELTE's assigned training at Nyíregyháza. So the increase in student numbers, the increase in the number of candidates due to these two extra training sites, is significant. If we stick to the 2010 data, in 2010, 2,400 students signed up for medical education courses in 2016, so during the last recruitment period, this number was 3,400. Thus, the number of applicants also increased significantly, and the number of first correct students was 1580 in 2010, in the last period and 2259 in the last recruitment period. So it's clear what the government wanted to train here. By the way, what else will happen in this area does not stop the expansion of therapeutic pedagogical training places. Medical pedagogical training will start in Szeged, and Pécs will also start medical education in order to compensate for this effect. Of course, this alone would not solve the problem, and the dedicated funding that will be spent on the use of medical teachers has increased by HUF 3.8 billion from 2016 to 2017 in the Klebelsberg Centre's budget, and if we look at the 2018 budget, this has increased by HUF 4 billion. So I think that these are the measures that we will really be able to achieve so that this will not be a problem. Congressman asked where we were taking it from and what professionals we discussed, so that, let's say, in the case of education for children with btm, some of the tasks could be performed by others, and where do we have this, and let's exempt them from the obligation of classification? I would very much like to invite the Member to those forums; I am an engineer, and in this way I am humbled by the profession of others, especially in areas I do not understand. So I went to all the types of events, whether this weekend event organized by the Autistic Association, where, say, they were talking about a relatively complicated group of diseases or groups of states, the autism spectrum. We have organised a special working group with the education and research of the autism spectrum, the professional organisations, which, by the way, will hold its next meeting next week. We are very happy to invite you here, and then I think that they will tell the Member that if we cannot resolve something at the moment with a specialist, it is much better to resolve it with a teacher who can otherwise be involved. They asked for this clearly, as I mentioned at the outset. This was not invented by the Ministry, it was clear from the professional organisations that we would rather resolve this in this way. As for the btm kids, I think Congresswoman said this swimming metaphor that we didn't have to swim so far, and now we're throwing her in the water. No! We're gonna teach them how to swim. It's very important that children with btms are not children with sniping, so they're not sick, they don't have a problem requiring a special measurement system. They need to be dealt with more than possibly with others without this symptom, but they need to be dealt with. And here the focus is on the profession. So we teach them to swim, but we measure it just as well, because it is not good for them to feel bad because they are treated differently than their fellow students in the same class. We have also looked at how the number of students and children in inclusive education has changed over the past six years. It's clearly growing, and it's growing in a joyful way. This places new tasks on schools. That's what the government's doing in this case. Teacher training is a separate element. This is where it was said that there is no indication of what the government is doing. I think that if someone has followed the last year, it is one of the priorities of this, and I think it is the most important element of how to shape our education system. This is indeed a reform of the system of teacher training and teacher further training. There's a steady increase in the number of students applying, and I think we've done a lot of things. Scholarships, the system of advancement, all of which show that otherwise the teaching profession has actually begun to reposition itself. We are not at the end, and indeed we are not yet satisfactory. Just yesterday, we started a project in Eger called Koala, which spends HUF 10 billion on methodological training for teachers working in difficult environments, with the same methodological tools that they will be able to learn more effectively in that environment. About 200 billion are the legs of our EFOP construction to shape the public education system. Of these 190 billion will support the work of such schools, teachers in this type of environment. So these are the cases that are obviously available in detail. Mr Szabolcs Szabó: I don't want to be sarcastic, but for some reason this chancellor's office is like a rabbit's hat that always turns up. Congressman Pósan replied. I would just like to say that in recent times we have a tendency to devalue Hungarian universities, certain groups of them against others and make negative comments. Let's not do that. I think that what Hungarian higher education has done in recent years is an achievement. This also includes student self-governments. So I suggest to Congressman that you really look at how the student self-government system worked before 2014 [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] and how it works today. I think that students who have been involved in this transformation and, by the way, those who are responsible for the operation of institutions would not be offended by me, but it is obviously a question of your taste as to what kind of university groups you wish to establish in the coming period. By the way, there are also private universities, private universities that are now being discussed, and they do exactly the same job. In order to reassure you that it's happening now, we appreciate the cooperation of Chancellors and Rectors every year. It's happening now. From the 28 state universities, I may now have to say that in 27 the relationship between the Chancellor and the Rector, I am not saying that it is cloudy, because there are always professional disagreements, but that it is good, and the signs of this seem clear. Member institutions, foreign member institutions, this is an opportunity. If you are not well or perhaps not well defined in the law... - yes, so in Hungarian-living areas across the border, if a vocational training institution wishes to participate in the vocational training of Hungarians there in Hungarian and similarly to universities, then we should be able to do so. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] I think that it does not apply to an institution, it applies to a series of institutions. I propose to monitor the government's actions in the Hungarian territory, which, for example, indicate the support of the companies there, the functioning of the universities there. Well, that's exactly what they need. So you will certainly see the results of this. About school trips in the case of Congressman Pósán: an amendment to the law constitutes a reference. There will be a number of things to happen here, because not only the educational and public education law has to be amended, but there is a series of laws that relate partly to the technical condition of buses, partly to the health condition of drivers, and also to their examination. This work is taking place, and a package of proposals will be published soon. This is precisely the reason why there should not be accidents such as the car accident in Verona, or there should not be a case that happened a week ago of turning buses and buses carrying children back from the border. We should avoid these; I think there is agreement on this. So that's pretty much what I was gonna say. Just what Ágnes Kunhalmi mentioned - after 9 a.m. - was that unqualified teachers, the mayors, decided to do so. In fact, the State's reservation analysed these situations and created a clear situation so that they would not happen, so that such a situation would not happen. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: But they brought the same back, Mr. Secretary of State.]] What you were talking about was a different system. No, we're talking about professionals with higher education and professional skills. What you were talking about was probably a different situation, but you obviously know that better. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.10]]
u2017-05-04-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. The Member who asked to speak after the agenda withdrew, and I thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good night. [[Meeting ended at 9:11 p.m.]]
