u2017-02-21-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. The second day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will become notaries of my assistance. I welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. We now have speeches before the agenda. Mr László Szakács, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What is important for this government? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Yesterday we could listen to what is important to your Prime Minister; what is not important to Hungarians is usually important. So this is his fight with the Union, this constant shadow boxing, where in fact he is the one who always brings the problem himself, he is the barrier to the solution, but since you cannot offer real solutions to real problems, your politics is filled with this shadow boxing with the European Union all the time. You are terribly far from the everyday, simple, everyday problems of Hungarian people, and you can't, can't even recognize them or offer solutions to them. What are you offering a Hungarian sick man? You offer a Hungarian sick man to enter the fifth worst healthcare system in the international comparison, where the countries that follow us, Poland, Albania, Romania and Montenegro, so you have achieved and are able to maintain this Balkan standard only, but of course you do not see it from private clinics, you are so far from the world of everyday life, you are so far from it, that while one of your ministers is going to the wedding with a helicopter, most of the Hungarian health institutions will not be able to land on such vehicles. While the fidesz urizing elite, if he escapes only from the rain into a mall, he spends more than a Hungarian starting doctor earns so that I don't talk about, let's say, Lőrinc, who earns more in half an hour than a Hungarian starting doctor, then obviously you can't expect any solution from you. Today, a Hungarian starting doctor earns roughly one third of what a Slovak starting doctor earns. Slovak! Ladies and gentlemen, Slovak! It is not Swedish, it is not German, I do not want to make such an unfair comparison; it is looking for one third of a Slovak novice doctor, that is the wages of a Hungarian novice doctor today, and it is no wonder that our doctors are missing two out of every three doctors, three doctors and two nurses leave this country every day, and you do not really recognize these problems. I can hear it coming, as the Secretary of State will say, when he has finished the last eight years, that there has been a wage increase programme here. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. You're late and insufficient. You cannot stop, nor slow down the exodus of doctors and nurses, to you in your ivory towers, very, very far away from the country you should serve, so long it took you to hear the sound of a problem that you can no longer solve the problem with it. You're late and insufficient. They're going to train nurses. Another two and a half years have passed since we said this problem in your ivory towers, where they are very far from the people, the country that should be served, it has been heard that there is a problem here. Good morning, Honourable Hungarian Government. Do we have to start now? Who will we train, who will you train the nurses for? Germans? Austrians? Swedes? Will it be enough for Hungarian doctors to raise their wages by November 2018, by October 2019? Well, who are you gonna raise your wages to by then? That is why we said that doctors should continue to raise their wages immediately, that they should continue to raise their wages at a much larger, drastic rate. Gentlemen, let the Hungarian offer be competitive with Slovakia at least! That is why we have said that we need to raise the wages of nurses by 50 percent immediately, that we need to increase the wages of economic and technical workers in health care immediately, because it is not necessary to train new people first, Mr. Secretary of State, but to value those who are doing their job excellently today with each and every part of their body. You do not do this respect because you do not see this problem. And that is why we have said that if the economy is doing well, we will increase health money by half a percentage of GDP each year. Because there's money; you're throwing it around. At the end of the last year, 300 billion forints were spent on stadiums, and there is always a way to move to Castle, poster war, poster campaign, propaganda, and, of course, to the Croatian football team of Lőrinc Mészáros. I think that this HUF 300 billion should be in health care, and then Hungary would be a better place and a better life would be here. Consider our proposal and support it. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-02-21-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-21-3	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I begin to think that in addition to the entry form in the Hungarian Socialist Party, there is also a need to undergo a kind of training on how to quickly forget what the Socialist Party is doing, so that things can then be called into account that are contrary to their previous activities. When you're in opposition, you're talking about spending more money on health care, you should make more money for nurses. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We raised 50 percent!]] doctors should earn more money, spend more money on hospitals, health care as a whole. When they start steering [[Zoltán Gőgös: How many hospitals were there in Vas County then, Secretary of State?]] you'll begin to do the opposite, since you're the ones who dismissed 6,000 doctors and nurses when hospitals were closed down. Now you're talking about how important it is to have more doctors and nurses. This is also the government's goal, which is why we have launched the residency support programme, which has already entered 3,500 young doctors, and we have spent 4.5 billion forints on their scholarship; I think this is a well-acclaimed and successful measure by everyone. That's why we're launching a scholarship program in the next three academic years. [[Dr. László Kács: You are late and few!]] the training of nurses, which is why we introduced higher education at MA level, in cooperation with the Rector's Conference, because we believe that we need more nurses and more doctors at home. [[Dr. László Kács: Good morning.]] most of all, we need a doctor. But you, on the other hand, dismissed 6,000 doctors and nurses during their own government when they closed down their assignments. [[Zoltán Gőgös: And how many hospitals were in Vas County then?]] You're talking about the need for a wage increase in health care, 50 percent in the case of nurses. Good news, honourable Member, we are increasing by 65 percent. [[Dr. László Kács: October 2019! Who?]] the salaries of nurses with last year's, this year's, next year's and 2019's increases. But here's the bad news: do you remember when you took a month's wages from doctors and nurses? [[Dr. László Kács and Zoltán Gőgös: Did you give it back?]] Then where was that kind of enthusiasm from the socialist faction? Then they were all here, on the wheel. [[Dr. László Kács: You're on the helm! Give it back!]] They were all here, and they voted to take a month's wages from doctors and nurses. And now you stand up, who took a month's wages, and now you stand up and demand that we increase your wages by 50 percent. [[Zoltán Pride: But you've been you for eight years!]] While increasing by 65 percent in this four-year programme, honourable Member. You are late and insufficient: you use such words when you have not voted for one medical raise, one nursing raise. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How do you know that?]] He did not vote for their budget base and did not vote for these legislative proposals here in Parliament. You refer to an international survey on the issue of Hungarian health, which contains almost literally that the Hungarian government is dealing with immigration and is spending resources on it instead of dealing with health, for example, and why you are using your political energy to protect Hungary and to protect Europe from the wave of immigration. And you consider this to be a health survey based on which you address those in parliament here in Parliament. Honourable Congressman, He says we need to train nurses. Who was the one who shut down secondary nursing facilities in this country? Who was the one who closed these in bulk in Budapest and elsewhere? Who has exhausted the secondary training base of this system today? It's exactly your government. And we must rebuild these institutions, give them scholarships, and help them to destroy what you have destroyed during your own period of government. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] 'Cause, quite simply, this area, let's face it, you've been handed over as it is, de facto, to the SDS, to whom nothing else mattered but privatisation. [[9.10]] So you nodded, nodded as a Socialist Party to introduce hospital allowances and visits. [[Zoltán Gőgös: How many hospitals were there in Vas County, and how many are there now?]] Tell another European Socialist Party, who should be proud of that, that he wanted to introduce hospital daily allowances and a visit fee. Where's a left-wing party in Europe who would've gotten away with this? No wonder after that, the political collapse that accompanied your activities also accompanied you. Because that was your health policy: paid health care. [[Dr. László Kács: Is private health cheaper now?]] Where they privatize the register, do they also make it pay to enter a hospital, an institution, and you call it better access, or do you call it a policy that helps and can help people with their real problems? I don't think so. However, this government is proud that it was able to make a 27 percent general health wage increase from the chip tax in the previous cycle, and in this cycle, doctors can raise their salaries by 107+100 thousand forints, which has not been the case since the change of regime - such a medical wage increase - for nurses, as I said, overall, it can increase these wages by 65 percent, by 26 percent last year, by 12 percent this year, and then by 8 percent and an additional 8 percent. [[Dr. László Szakács: This is how we achieve one third of the Slovak wages!]] We hope that this will strengthen many in the practice of his profession. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-21-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has applied for a speech from the LMP Group before the agenda:. When will there be order? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-02-21-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have also listened with interest to the speech before the first agenda, as Secretary of State Bence Rétvári says that entry into the MSZP requires some kind of forgetting training. There must be some Rodolfo training to access Fidesz or KDNP to make public money disappear. That's what I wanted to talk about before the agenda. But I didn't want to talk so much about stealing, I wanted to talk about responsibility and basically hiding criminals. Yesterday, Lajos Kósa called on the opposition before the agenda why we should not talk about metro 4. It's obviously the one whose house is on fire, and I'm willing to do it now to talk about subway 4 and its affairs. This is basically a case that has become virtually systemic during the Hungarian Fidesz-KDNP administration. Here in Hungary, criminal groups can virtually steal money, often close to the government, and taxpayers will pay for the theft with public money. Let's look at these cases. If you look at the small money, you can mention the playground scandal, where 1.8 million forints were paid. Some of the acacia trees were rolled over by a company, the mayor didn't notice that it wasn't worth 10 million, the MVH didn't realize that it wasn't worth 10 million, the government didn't notice that it wasn't worth 10 million. Then when you went to Brussels and someone asked why some of the acacia logs were covered up, you were wondering why OLAF would reveal them. You are embarrassing the country with your incompetence, but you can practically see what happened as special support with the 1.3 billion forints provided to the National Roma Municipality. Someone at the National Roma Municipality may have carried out misappropriation, embezzlement, but it is not about finding those responsible, but it is about the taxpayers' public money. And obviously, if we do so, we can also go to Metro 4, which is practically going back to the time of their former MSZP administration, but the question is, as Péter Polt's chief prosecutor and the Fidesz-KDNP administration in the midst of a terrible miscalculation after 2010 how could he not have noticed anything? Let's look at the acts. From 2009 onwards, an investigation has been carried out in the BRFK's economic department on suspicion of a particularly high level of misappropriation. The whole investigation is obviously completed during the administration of Fidesz-KDNP and, at the same time, the procedure for suspicion of bribery has been initiated. The suspicion of Metraport Bt. Metcontrol Ltd. and AAM Consulting Ltd. as well as Swietelsky Kft. has examined its contracts. Many expert opinions, testimony and public procurement documents have demonstrated that these abuses have occurred, but Peter Polt's Chief Prosecutor has found no crime in this. There was no evidence of any evidence of any of this. What does God give you? Some of the evidence is used by OLAF and the irregularity is established without further delay. Who are you paying to check these out? Who's sitting there looking at these? Let's keep looking. The Metropolitan Attorney General and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office also launched the proceedings in 2009, which is also going through your government time. From 2010 onwards, you have been cleared, promised to the Hungarian electorate, and the Hungarian authorities have requested all bank data regarding the suspicion of bribery. According to the Hungarian investigative bodies, there was no evidence of the crime. What's happening now? Some of the evidence is used by OLAF and finds irregularities and abuse. Who do you employ? Don't these abuses come out a thousand kilometers from us? How does this happen? There's the Alstom case. In the 2012 criminal case, the National Bureau of Investigation, the Metropolitan Attorney General, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, is conducting the investigation. The subject of the investigation was an infidel treatment, but they turned it into a bribe. In practice, some of the evidence was used by OLAF to support its findings. To date, the Hungarian investigative authorities have not prosecuted this case. To this day! What makes it possible for OLAF to determine the irregularity on the basis of the same documents? On 29 October 2015, BRFK's anti-corruption and economic crime department will terminate the investigation because it will terminate, later the subject of investigation... The complaint was filed by BKV Zrt. His CEO did it in 2013. There's a lot of fidesz accounting going on, but there's practically nothing going on. If we go through the chronology of the whole case, it's everywhere for you to hide the thieves. They're gonna make it out of public money instead of thieves in every single case. How is it that this incompetence, which Hungarian clearing bodies or investigative authorities and prosecutors cannot cope with, is understood by someone in Brussels? Why does it appear there that a light switch is not 50,000 forints, a door is not 2 million forints? What makes you think your experts won't notice that? Who are you hiding? Who's Peter Polt hiding, who's involved in this? They keep pointing backwards, and they don't determine their own responsibilities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I wonder when it's gonna be all right. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-02-21-6	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-21-7	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, Congressman, first of all, to state here that the metro 4 case, which may be the biggest corruption case in the last 27 years, has clearly identified political links with the former leaders of the MSZP and SZDSZ, raises many questions. It raises the question, inter alia, that the political accusation that the opposition is making against corruption is a real fight against corruption or is nothing more than a means to strike at the current government. And a government can really prove that his commitment to fighting corruption is well founded when we pull out the numbers and get the facts out. It is also good to be able to refer to numbers that are not produced by the government, but to the organisation that you mentioned several times, the European Commission. If we look at the balance of the use of EU funds between 2007 and 2013, the European Commission's balance sheet, who ultimately pays the bill, shows that Hungary has less than 2 per cent of the amount of funds used incorrectly. I do not want to save anyone from stealing any amount of public money or taxpayer money that is low, so it is possible to turn a blind eye to this, but it is very important to establish this, because when corruption charges are drawn up in Parliament from LMP to MSZP, in many cases they rely on presumptions, accusations without facts. There is only one OLAF report in the government's hands at the moment regarding Metro 4 where it has actually been established and stated which individuals have stolen 166 billion forints from political organizations, parties and government bodies in Hungary. Regardless of which political camp the accused in these reports consider themselves or may be linked to by the public, they must face the same accountability. The responsibility of the Hungarian Government extends to the transfer of all the documents at its disposal, such as those supporting documents, the various supporting documents for the payment of money, to the authorities who carry out this investigative work, from the European Commission to OLAF, from the Hungarian authorities to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then it is up to the prosecution, the police and the investigating agencies to determine, on the basis of criminal rules, whether or not a criminal offence has occurred, whether or not an indictment should take place. If you carefully read the OLAF report on the corruption issue of the SZDSZ-MSZP, it makes it very clear which cases OLAF relied on the investigative work of the Office for Government Control, the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office and the Hungarian police. So we are not talking about a case where the European Commission's law enforcement agency investigates for four years, and the Hungarian authorities remain silent during this period, but we are talking about the fact that these bodies have cooperated, in their entirety, correctly. [[9.20]] In this respect, I would also like to confirm that, regardless of the cases, where a financial correction is to be made, so when the Hungarian Government has to repay any corrections to the European Commission from the taxpayers' money, the Hungarian Government does not believe that it will be closed where the Hungarian Government repays this money. It is an advance money that we have to pay back our sponsor with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. We must demand this money back from those who have committed these crimes, when there is a final judicial decision in their case, whether it be individuals or companies. With regard to EU funds, I would like to reassure the Member that the rate of irrecoverable outstanding debt is below 5%, so the reimbursement of the damage caused is an extremely good proportion in European comparison in this respect. The M4 case gives the current opposition a very serious opportunity or self-cleaning in that matter, so that it can truly distance itself from the politicians and the city leaders who are trying to speak out against corruption here today, but were actively involved in the robbery of the Hungarian budget and the budget in Budapest. We are not only talking about how HUF 166 billion was attributed to private pockets, HUF 166 billion, which is nearly the size of the total cost of Metro 4 at the start of the investment in 2003, but also about what will happen to the HUF 59 billion expected to be paid as a fine. The people who could answer these questions and who were responsible as Prime Minister - Ferenc Gyurcsány, formerly Péter Medgyessy, then Gordon Bajnai, and Gábor Demszky, representing the metropolitan administration, did not show up at the parliamentary committee hearing where, if they really had the skills or evidence that they were clean in this case, they could have proved this. They themselves acknowledged that they were not only active participants, but they were executives and licensors of the biggest corruption case in Hungary's modern history. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda from the KDNP Group, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group on Justice in everyday life or on how to deal with poverty. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2017-02-21-9	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going into more peaceful waters. In 2007, the UN General Assembly declared 20 February, which is yesterday, the World Day of Social Justice. What does justice mean? Back in 1891 the first document that dealt with it, the Rerum novarum, followed it forty years later - also in its title - is described by the Quadragesimo anno. They laid the principle of righteousness. Our social theory has five basic concepts: personality, solidarity, subsidiarity, common good and social justice. What does that mean? In particular, the fight against poverty, because justice appears in it. We can talk about what the risk of poverty is. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to list one or two. In particular, unemployment or incapacity, the large family or the single-parent family, and details of this could be discussed: lack of job opportunities, disadvantaged areas, lack of training. But that is not so important, but rather what we can do about poverty and who can. Yesterday we also heard in Parliament the demagogic comments that every second person in Hungary is starving. There's nothing to do with that kind of talk. This uses the issue of poverty for demagogy, uncredited and party policy purposes, thus humiliating those who are truly poor. Because there are poor people in Hungary today, there is no denying that. But the fact that poverty has increased or decreased is an important issue. Let us see who can do something about poverty: I say that the individual, the charitable organisations, whether he has members or volunteers, the state and the municipalities. But here, let me highlight what is most important to me, the individual, because if there is no empathy in the individual, then there is no charity, the municipality, or the state, but if there are people who, at least occasionally, want to help poor families on their own income, who have a sense of living their solidarity with the other person on such material issues, it is able to deal with these issues in a credible manner as an official of the state or of the local government. Then let's see what the state has done, what the government has done, what Parliament has done to reduce poverty. The first option is the most important, since it protects the risk that leads most to poverty, creating jobs. It is good to see that unemployment is below 5%, that 700,000 new jobs have been created in recent years. But I would also like to highlight the public work programme, because it has also helped hundreds of thousands of people who have already returned to the normal labour market. Training, re-training and the transformation of vocational training are ongoing. This is linked - and is a very important issue - to helping small incomes. I am thinking primarily of raising the minimum wage, in general wage increases. I highlight the significant increase in the minimum wage for skilled workers and again point out that the two most difficult sectors, the most disadvantaged in terms of pay, nurses and workers in the social sector, have also received a significant increase in wages. We have come to a point that is very important, the issue of child poverty. Family support, free catering, free textbooks all served to prevent hungry and poor families in Hungary. This is not only the support of parents, but also the direct support of the child. I could also tell you about the pensioners, and perhaps I could suggest something here, because some people get very small pensions because of the lack of contributions. It would be necessary to increase the minimum pension amount. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Fraction Manager replied to the statement by Secretary-General Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-21-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, As you said, the most important number pair, perhaps in terms of social justice, poverty, poverty, poverty decline, is that while in 2010 3 million 709 thousand people had jobs, so many people were able to support their families on wages and salaries, this has now risen to 4 million 411 thousand people, that is, 700,000 more people know not from aid, not from one day to another, but from wages to sustain themselves and maintain their families. If we compare only the figures from a year ago with those from now, we are looking at positive changes in the last year, we can still see that there are 152 thousand more people working than a year ago. Thus, the number of people who can take up work and receive a monthly salary has increased very much in the last year as well. This is also a material step forward, and it is obviously also important for everyday life and for their children to be raised. And it is important not only because they can raise their children with more money, they can take care of them with more money, but also because children grow up watching their parents go to work every day. With over 700,000 people, their children see that they go to work every day. There is a group that receives a nursing allowance, which is often mentioned. In 2010, too, there were very low amounts, with a sum of around HUF 20,000 to 30 thousand to be supported by those who care for other relatives and care for them in their homes. Here we have introduced a new category, the special care fee, the amount of which has been constantly increased, most recently from HUF 53,000 to HUF 55 800, thus helping those who receive a care fee every year, who care for their own family members. We hope that this amount can increase further as a result of the performance of the economy and that further progress can be made for those receiving care. [[9.30]] Mr President, Mr President, you have also mentioned the levels of the minimum wage increase. Here, it is worth comparing how much was in which period. In the period between 98 and 2002, the average annual increase of the minimum wage during the period of civil governance was HUF 7625 per month, while in the subsequent Medgyessy and Gyurcsány periods, this HUF 7600 fell to HUF 2937. That's how much the monthly minimum wage grew from one year to another in that four-year cycle on average. Then between 2010 and 16 this HUF 2937 rose to 6250, and now, in this cycle, it was HUF 8062. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Live for two months.]] So if I compare the HUF 2900 of the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány period with the current HUF 8000, then we can see which political forces, in the framework of social justice, want to help the least earners, and who bring much less, much less increase. They obviously did this because they were in the interest of the multinational companies to get cheap labour. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Didn't you have any taxes, do you mind, Mr. Secretary of State? I've got it now.]] Many of the government's main measures in the area of social justice are also important. This government is the government of tax cuts. He reduced personal income tax to everyone, but mostly to those who care for others, who raise children. In their case, the general 15 percent personal income tax can be 0 percent, since they do not have to pay taxes or contributions if they provide, say, three children on average income. This government is the government of job creation, as it has created as many jobs as other governments have never been able to reach in other cycles. This government is the government of home creation. On average, 2,000 families each month can use the CSOK. Our first task was to solve the foreign exchange credit problem, after which there was a new opportunity, a home-building discount for families, for which the interest is 100,000, but the amount of subsidised housing benefits already paid is around 37 thousand. This government is also the government of wage increases. In addition to tax reductions, it is also important to raise wages, as it is important that each person can bring home as much of his own income as possible. But it is also important that this wages increase as much as possible. It began with teachers, continued with health workers, law enforcement workers, professional staff, district government officials, and could continue with higher education and many other areas, the social area, where large wage increases also took place. This, as well as the increase in benefits in kind and the reduction of costs, served social justice. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-21-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Erik Bánki applied for a speech before the agenda entitled 'The Man Who Was Not There'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-02-21-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Not surprisingly, the last week was also about metro 4 and the OLAF investigation on this subject, the biggest corruption scandal of all time. As we have learned from OLAF, there are serious problems around the use of HUF 272 billion from the HUF 452 billion metro investment, and a series of crimes, fraud, abuse and irregularities have been suspected in the case of HUF 166 billion. Of the HUF 166 billion, HUF 59 billion was provided by the European Union, HUF 77.7 billion of Hungarian taxpayers' money was provided by the state budget and HUF 30 billion by the Municipality of Budapest contributed to the investment. The capital and government are now forced to establish their position within 60 days as a result of the crimes of the previous liberal-socialist city leadership and to pay back 59 billion forints, the EU's support for the disputed items. We know that the current metropolitan city administration is not responsible, because the report also makes that clear. In fact, under the leadership of István Tarlós, the Fidesz-KDNP faction in the capital has tried on several occasions to make the contracts around the metro investment transparent and transparent, which has always been voted off by liberal-socialist assembly members. We listened with surprise to Gábor Demszky's presentation last Thursday at the Budapest Liberal Club, the idea owner and flag bearer of Metro 4 that he had no responsibility for the investment in the period in question. Let me read in the following some of the alternative facts, as it is fashionable to apply this in liberal terms, which Gábor Demszky says today. Then let each of you judge for yourself how much this surreal alternative world, in which the mayor of the former mayor lives, is correlated with reality. Attention! There are sentences suitable for disturbing calm. The OLAF report is no good for anything, it is no good for anything, it is just a starting point, so in general OLAF is not worth anything, and therefore it is not capable of being accounted for. As mayor, Gábor Demszky didn't see into everything. With regard to the subway, his name is only on three specific contracts, so there's no problem with them, so his responsibility shouldn't even come up. He was the only one who led the protocol of subway 4, and the BKV signed the contracts. Of course, it doesn't bother the former mayor that he just appointed the head of the BKV. The cost of Metro 4 investment is both technically and economically appropriate, says an investment that started with HUF 199 billion in budget planning, and there was a time frame for the investment when the expected investment cost was HUF 452 billion. So there was no unfaithful treatment here. Nor does it bother the former mayor that, at the same time as this investment, a metro section of the same length was built in Madrid from one third of the costs of Budapest's metro construction. Also, Demszky said he wasn't afraid of a case against him or even offering his help to the government. But at the same time, he does not come to the Parliament's Committee on Economics, and he refuses to tell us what information he had about the investment. It is not worth noting his position that Alstom, Siemens and Swietelsky are being investigated by foreign authorities. So again, it is not his burden, since those contracts were also signed by the BKV; as I mentioned earlier, in this case it does not bother him that he has appointed the leader of the BKV. So Gábor Demszky is an expert city manager who just started the investment and then washes his hands from here on out. He's the man who wasn't even there. Seriously, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that Gábor Demszky is certainly responsible for the situation. Whether he is legally responsible or not, will be determined by the prosecution's investigation or by the legal proceedings. However, we can now say that the former saviour of the liberals is definitely flawed. If you've been involved in the greatest corruption scandal of all time, that's because you weren't involved, but you knew about corruption and you didn't report it, that's why. And in that unlikely case, if you've been driving this city for 20 years without realizing what's going on around you, then I apologize to him, but you're unfit because you're still nominated as the mayor of the capital. With the alternative logic above, it would also be nice to establish that Gábor Demszky was not really the mayor of Budapest. I think that would have been the best thing for all Budapesters, because today Budapest could be much further ahead. None of us really believe that Gábor Demszky, former mayor, is involved in the greatest corruption scandal of all time? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-21-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-21-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to use my situation to recall an old memory; there is a long shadow of old crimes... In 98, when we first came to government, we had to face the fact that on the last day of the term of office of the Horn government, the finance minister, who was then called Péter Medgyessy, signed the metro 4 grant contract, which I recall was HUF 198 billion. The only problem was that in the 1998 budget there wasn't a crooked penny. So an uncovered aid document was inherited by the then-in-office Orbán government, which was simply not there for all good intentions. After that, for four years, the socialists and liberals have been pushing for why the construction of subway 4 does not begin. That's because I didn't have the money. The OLAF report has now revealed that not only money was missing, but also technical, organisational, management and other preparation and preparation for such a large project. Following such a history, citizens have a right to be interested in who is responsible for the maladministration identified in the OLAF report and, if responsibility is established, how liability will be taken into account. [[9.40]] In fact, the metropolitan area is seeing more and more shocking information. We have known since last week that my fellow Member has also pointed out that Gábor Demszky does not consider himself responsible in political or criminal terms. Of course, it is not my place to judge his criminal liability, nor my intention to advance, which must be clarified by the judicial authorities. The former mayor and his political party have already been judged by the voters, since they have failed, have been excluded from national and capital politics, but they have still had time to start the construction of metro 4 and to complicate it largely. Of course, after all these years, we cannot judge whether this was a political trick from the liberals and the socialists who led the city together with them. They may have felt that the conclusion of contracts for the subway project was the last opportunity to steal serious sums from this big hat, to cheat away when they knew precisely that the invoice was no longer to be charged to them. Ladies and gentlemen, The government and the capital inherited this investment from its predecessors after the 2010 election. It is now known that there was no general contractor that the contracts were built on one another, that the contractors in the working areas hindered each other, that the funding from the three sources was complicated and opaque. At the start of the project, no one made a fuss that virtually any entrepreneur could make an unlimited claim to the investor. In front of the capital city there were two options: either interrupt the investment or try to mitigate the damage and build the metro line. István Tarlós, acting as the responsible city manager, decided on the latter, the non-advantaged contracts were modified, the contracts were transparent, and the cost of the project, as mentioned today, decreased from HUF 452 billion to some 406 billion. The OLAF report is another challenge for both the Government and the Mayor's Office. Once again, the task is to alleviate the damage that Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian taxpayers, must face, and to do so, the government will provide all legal and financial assistance to the capital. At the same time, responsibility should be established and the liability of the person to whom it is established should be held accountable and the damage caused to them should be enforced. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-21-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is a Member of the European Parliament, and why do they not stand up for Hungarian workers? A title for the speech before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-17	Mr President, Dear House, If this government were to be on top of the situation, it would be on a daily basis to consider how, in addition to tackling the population crisis, it could at least slow down the amazing emigration mood and clearly examine whether, if Eurostat data were to be examined, not even our own ideas, how could Hungary be ranked 17th in the minimum wage ranking among the EU Member States concerned, compared to, say, Luxembourg's average minimum wage of EUR 2000 at the average monthly minimum wage of EUR 412 per month. It's in the middle of the weakest third. We must add that, although the minimum wage was previously available free of charge, Fidesz-KDNP's government has also changed this, so it has hit even the lowest earnings with a tax burden higher than the average, which is more than justified. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Obviously, it is no coincidence that the leaders of Jobbik had earlier called on Viktor Orbán to act at least to reduce the wage gap in the six-sevenfold western and Hungarian relations, at least the stalks of the scissors should be closer together. All of this was before the EU summit in Bratislava. Viktor Orbán's reaction was talkative and clear: he rejected all of this, so the intention to settle the wage gap, because he did not think it would be good for Hungarian competitiveness. So here is the deep philosophical divide and the difference between us. While you would try to compete on the market with cheap Hungarian labour, Jobbik is clearly thinking about quality jobs, a tax system that supports production, and we claim that this is not only in the interests of Hungarian workers, but of all Hungarian citizens. Pitifully, in the case of Audi, so in the case of the multi-company companies in our company, this government was more likely to hinder wage development than to promote it, so it acted against the interests of its own citizens. So we need to look at what could increase wages in the long term. In this case, the replying State Secretary is expected to stand up and say that Jobbik did not support the wage development of this sector and did not support the development of that group's wages. This vile lie will be told because Jobbik did not accept the draft budget. We did not accept the draft budget because, through moving to the Castle, there have been hundreds of billion-dollar separations for Urizing oligarchs, priority social groups, through a lot of unnecessary prestige investments, which cannot be supported by a well-spoken Hungarian and a Member of Parliament. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] So we said no to the budget as a whole, and obviously we do not just say yes to any sensible sectoral wage increase, but we also urge them. We must say that from 1 September it was therefore Jobbik that launched an intensive political campaign to reach the European Wages Union. We have found allies in well over seven regional countries and other EU countries, and we are looking for these alliances instead of the government. Instead of the Government of Hungary, we are talking about this in the European space, which is in itself the shame of Viktor Orbán and his team, because Viktor Orbán did not seek international cooperation on this issue in the period concerned, and what is even more shameful, the members of the government and his friends did not raise, to my knowledge, the amazing gap in wage differences. We must say that if we want to slow down migration and then stop it, if we want to make a substantial change in payments, this cannot be achieved with the pathetic economic policy that John Lazarus has just put together in these days. Now they want to draw more than 2,200 billion EU funds, but a Hungarian economy on umbilical lines cannot be maintained and developed without independent performance, production support tax systems, own-owned industries and production to a normal external market. That's what you should see. It's also pathetic that at the Mercedes, at the Audi, the employees themselves had to fight the wage development that had the reserves on the market. There are opportunities in the Hungarian market, but your prime minister in Saudi Arabia campaigned for investors to come to Hungary, because the labour force here is cheap. This shame, this shame, is not what Hungary should compete with and should not compete with! And in the meantime, I called on you this weekend to also review your strategic contracts with multi-company companies, as they provide these companies with tens of billions of forints of non-refundable resources, while I believe that a strategic contract should be concluded with Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, so that this new slaver society that they are starting to build can be eliminated. The question is that yesterday's bar level [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] After a government reaction, is there any intention to make any meaningful changes in you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Mr Cseresnyés responds to what was said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-21-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I didn't want to bring up the cases where you didn't vote for items relating to wage catch-up, wage increases or reductions in taxes on wages. You brought it, or you brought it up, but they did happen, so you did not support many things that served the interests of Hungarian workers or Hungarian entrepreneurs. But I believe that this speech has shown the irresponsible nature of your speeches on economic policy, employment policy and wage policy, because they are asking for things that if you did - we hope you will not do - the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy would be significantly reduced. If the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy were to be reduced, the competitiveness of Hungarian employers and entrepreneurs would be reduced, and if their competitiveness were to be reduced, the Hungarian workers would be in danger. [[9.50]] It would not be like what has been going on in Hungary for four years now that wages are not only increasing in gross terms [[Adam Mirkóczki: How many times have you tried?]] but also in terms of net real value, wages increase significantly, while an unprecedented increase in employment has taken place in Hungary. Let me tell you some numbers, and then you can look at Eurostat and all sorts of statistics to get a more accurate picture of what you were just talking about. On average, real wages increased by 2.7 percent in 2013, by 4 percent in 2014, by 4.3 percent in 2015 at the national economy level, and last year's rise by 7.4 percent in real wages. If you look at the statistics you mentioned earlier, you can see that in the Central European region, taking into account 2014-2015, with the exception of Poland, real wage growth was higher [[Adam Mirkóczki: You steal more every minute!]] In 2016, however, real wages in Hungary increased significantly in terms of the EU average. That means that the catch-up you missed started [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't talk about percentages.]] of course, with the sense of responsibility that it is only possible to raise wages and that real wage increases can be expected if the Hungarian economy makes this possible. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Shame!]] If you had taken into account the ten-year process between 2002-2010, you would have seen how irresponsible it is to increase wages without the economy proving and not allowing this performance and causing a bankruptcy such as that caused by the socialist-liberal government in Hungary by 2010. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] Of course, in recent times, both in the competition and in the public sector, there has been a significant rise in wages and real wage increases. These are the facts you should be aware of. [[György Szilágyi and Zoltán Tessely alternate. They will then leave the Chamber and return in a little while.]] And then the principle of equal pay for equal work, as you said, is that the European Union should compete with its wages. The particular pay gap that I mentioned to you is pointing in this direction, so the pay gap is beginning, as real wages have increased more in Hungary in recent years than in Western wages. What would happen if your minimum wage increase or minimum wage level were raised to the EU level? You have considered that in this case we would destroy Hungarian businesses, not only foreign companies operating in Hungary, but Hungarian businesses, especially Hungarian-owned companies, because we would put them at a completely disadvantage and reduce their competitiveness. After all, Hungarian businesses must be able to ensure employment policy expectations, their own working ability, in a very serious competitive situation. That is why we are arguing with the European Union to introduce from one moment to the next principles that the Hungarian economy cannot and cannot implement at the moment. That is why we consider the principle that we can take every step in both employment policy and economic policy if the Hungarian economy allows us to do so. And if the Hungarian economy makes it possible to take action in the area of wage increases, then these wage increases, which we cannot take directly in the competition sector, can only be done indirectly, for example, as a significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, as happened at the end of the last year under an agreement, can be done with the help of this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And these steps, as I have read you the statistical data, the statistics of the previous four years, prove that the Hungarian economy provides this opportunity, and so the Hungarian wages also increase significantly in real terms, which provides a significant wage catch-up. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]]
u2017-02-21-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform you that card calendars containing the Parliament's spring work schedule for 2017 can be transferred at the counter of the Office-Professional Service. Dear Parliament, The debate on the legislative report and the proposed amendment to the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure, adopted by the Parliament on 6 December 2016, is now taking place. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/12234/17, letter from the President of the Republic T/12234/18. On the Parliament's IT network, it is accessible to all. The Legislative Committee's amendment proposal is T/12234/20, and the Legislative Committee's report is T/12234/21. can also be found on the website under number 1. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Accordingly, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of 15 February 2017, the Legislative Committee shall adopt the House Rule 79. T/12234. Law No 1 on Administrative Rules of Procedure, with the aim of amending the provisions declared by the Constitutional Court to be unlawful. On 6 December 2016, the Constitutional Court adopted certain provisions of the bill on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Hungary. The President of the Republic has therefore returned the bill to Parliament. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, the provisions which constitute an infringement of the basic law are deleted from the text of the law and amended by the proposal of the Legislative Committee. 7 The Constitutional Court has declared it against the law. Paragraph 4 shall be amended. Here, the Constitutional Court's objection was that the text of the law, acting as a court of the Supreme Court, represented the metropolitan and county courts and, in some cases, in the case of exclusive jurisdiction, the Metropolitan Court. The Legislative Committee proposes the common name of the court acting as the Supreme Court, so it designates the same body as the capital court or county court or, in the case of exclusive jurisdiction, as the Metropolitan Court. Thus, the law does not change in the sense that the same court will act, except as a court of the highest court. So we didn't have to make a meaningful change in the law, which means the practice. I am convinced that the amendment tabled by the Parliament's Legislative Committee eliminates the fundamental law and fully complies with the requirements of the Constitutional Court's resolution, and I therefore ask that you support the adoption of the bill today, so that it can enter into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-21-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now asking Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if you would like to speak now on behalf of the rapporteur. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] He doesn't want to. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. The timeframes are shown on the billboard. If the Parliament wishes to make use of this, I will ask my fellow Members if they wish to speak. Yeah, the names are coming out now. I would like to take the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. [[10.00]]
u2017-02-21-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us came to us following the decision of the President of the Republic or the decision of the Constitutional Court. This proposal is a correction aimed at correcting the law adopted by the Parliament a few months ago, in line with the criteria of the Constitutional Court. The bill before us changes some terminology, some terms in the law, clarifies some rules. It can then be said that according to the original intention of the legislator and the original intention of the national government, but it is now possible to adopt constitutional legislation in all respects, i.e. the original intention of the law has not changed, the law does not change in the sense that the same courts will act in administrative matters as those which have been defined by the law declared unconstitutional, but, as I said, the same result will be taken after a correction. Why do I think it's important to state that? Because the bill does not change the substance, the effectiveness of justice is served by the bill - and the efficiency of public administration - and not least the rule of law aspect that the administration, the executive authority, will continue to operate under the control of the court. So no one ever intended to change that, no one ever intended to change the way in which the executive power, the administration, was under judicial control. What has been discussed here in recent months has been only a matter of competence and competence: which court controls the administration, how they negotiate these matters, what procedure, but of course, the essence has always been judicial control. In the future, therefore, the courts in administrative matters or the administrative courts can now exercise constitutional control over the activities of the executive authority. It is well known that the government's ideas included the establishment of an independent administrative court, but the government, after not having the necessary parliamentary majority, did not have the necessary parliamentary majority, decided to ensure that, by changing the legislative instruments at its disposal, judicial powers and jurisdiction rules, the most prepared, so to speak, specialised courts could exercise control of the administration. These courts are located in the court, in some cases and in some cases only in the Metropolitan Court, or in the future, in a court which controls the administration. To sum up, the bill now serves the same purpose as the legislation and the government, in line with all constitutional aspects, set the goal of the original bill. Thank you very much for the floor, and on behalf of my group, I would like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the speeches. Member Gergely Bárándy of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. I'll wait for you to put it on, calmly, Congressman, and that's where the time will start. Here you go, Congressman. Now you have the floor.
u2017-02-21-25	Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President, and for the opportunity to speak. He began by saying, Mr Répássy, that it was only a correction, that the original intention did not change. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, my fellow Member Vas Imre has already said that there was no need to make a meaningful change to this law. Well, we are used to this rhetoric from you, honourable pro-government Members, that when your intentions are practically overwritten by something, whether it be the Hungarian Constitutional Court, be it the Venice Commission, be it the European Court of Justice or the European Commission, and therefore they are forced to amend the law, they are trying to sell it and perform it as if nothing really happened here, everything would have been okay, we have to make tiny, tiny amendments to enforce it even more effectively. The Secretary of State nods, but now, compared to all this, I think that the original law was a disgrace, a personal shame for the Minister of Justice, because the Constitutional Court says that it is your former party partner, on the basis of the motion of the President of the Republic, that the law violates legal certainty and violates the provisions of the Fundamental Law on the organisation of the courts, I think it is all but a minor correction when it is intended to be improved. Secretary of State, fellow Members, let's be a little more sober. So when a Constitutional Court says that a law is unconstitutional, and some of its provisions, which it has annulled, violate legal certainty and the rules on the organisation of courts, which are contained in the Fundamental Law, that is all, but not a minor correction, that is the substance of the law; and more so I say that it is its essence, because it also applies to the substance of the law as regards their intentions. As Congressman Répássy has just said, your intention was indeed to establish, according to official rhetoric, an independent administrative court, according to our rhetoric, a Fidesz party court. This, in the absence of two-thirds support, did not fail, but they could not even submit it to the Parliament. This was one of the main objectives of the Minister and many others, such as András Patyi, so that this could be achieved during their term of office. Compared to this, when this did not work, you chose the solution of virtually bypassing the two-thirds issue with a half of the law, which has been done more than once, and more than once have been knocked at their noses. So they went around the two-thirds issue again, and tried to create administrative courts in a slumbering, lurking manner, in a half-law. I would like to say that we did not say it, but you said that it would be a redemption, and this is necessary in the interests of legal certainty, i.e. to create independent administrative courts. We've been saying what Congressman Répássy is saying all along, but the wind is changing with you, and that's a little less so with us, and that changes your opinion. Yes, there are administrative judges, courts and labour and administrative courts today, and these matters are assessed in a state of law. That is what we said, and that is what the President of the National Court of Justice said. I would like to stress, however, that the problem is not in itself whether or not there is administrative jurisdiction, because there is such a model across Europe, and there is a model throughout Europe, and it is a question of which one we choose. It's just that, as they say, the devil is in detail, that's what it was all about: creating independent administrative courts in a way that would have allowed your party soldiers to be implanted in these courts. It could have been half of those who held these posts in this new courthouse, at most half, so it could have been only 20 percent or 10 percent, it would have been a decision, and so these courts would have stood up. In other words, your tried men from the administration would have been parachuted into these courts. This is what we most criticized and criticized from the opposition benches, in Hungarian, not the existence of independent administrative jurisdiction, but the right to do so, because again it was not about wanting to carry out a good structural reform, but about the fact that if the occupation of the courts does not succeed in a straight line, they will try to do so in a way that is not in detail. One part of this detour was the attempt to do so in the absence of two thirds, bypassing the two-thirds regulatory issue. [[10.10]] This is the small amendment that you are now leading out of the law, and I think that this is everything, once again, but not small. What's left is what's left. Obviously, we welcome what the Legislative Committee has done - obviously out of necessity - to remove and rewrite these passages, but we will still not be able to support this law. We won't know because there are a number of professional errors and problems that make it impossible to press a button on the closing vote. To mention two of the things that are most important and important. Again, I say that our problem is not, and we even welcome, the fact that, otherwise, a separate administrative code of procedure separate from civil procedure is being developed, and this appears in a uniform structure. That's good, but again, the way it's done is what's wrong. For example, what is our fundamental and principled problem is that instead of either raising the number of judges or giving them to the secretaries, say, under the name of a judge or any other name, or even remaining a secretary, the independence that the judges are entitled to, and then it is possible to install such tasks as you are doing now; or the secretaries should not have the powers of decision which, by the way, concerns judges and courts. There are several pillars of judicial independence - we have talked about it many times in this House - not only insubordination, but also independence of status. These are both limited to the secretaries, because, although the secretaries cannot be instructed in the decision in question, but otherwise, yes, and, given their status, their independence remains substantially below the independence of the judiciary. Therefore, a fundamentally flawed concept is that you are going to try to alleviate the otherwise increased judicial burden by transferring cases from the judges to the secretaries, although obviously in an alternative way, so that secretaries can handle this. That is not the solution, Mr. Secretary. Either I put the secretaries in a position - and the remuneration must, of course, follow this responsibility - which meets the criteria of judicial independence and can then be entrusted with judicial work; or I raise the number of judges, this is option two; and the third is that I am not installing an additional task there, as you are doing now. It would not necessarily be necessary, since most or much of the second-degree cases are being referred to the court immediately after the appeal - why? Why couldn't the administrative authority exercise this second-degree power in relation to the appeal, so that we could ease the court case, and not increase it in any other approach? I might say once again, increase, only then create the material and material conditions for it, and not seek replacement solutions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Since that was the time, that's all I could say as a criticism. We cannot support the proposal on a professional basis either. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-02-21-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Gábor Staudt of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-02-21-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, To be able to judge this proposal, we need to go back a little bit to the past, and we need to recall the entire administrative order, the order of procedure and the government's demand for separate administrative courts. And I would not like to repeat the general debate for this proposal, but in order to understand what and how we are going to vote in the final vote - which, by the way, will not be easy, and I will tell you why, so it is difficult to cast a good vote in such a situation - we need to go back in some thoughts and see the directions that the government has tried to define with administrative jurisdiction and administrative law. In fact, this is so accurate that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice had an otherwise Eligible idea that something would happen about the reform of administrative justice and administrative law. There were also elements in the current system that, if we are based on a uniform system of civil, criminal and administrative administration, and I am referring to the appearance of OBT as the top organs, the system has tried to correct certain errors. Yes, but he wouldn't have done that by trying to solve the points of the entire court system raised by the opposition as a long time ago as a problem, but he would have left the rest of the branches, and he would have highlighted in some part the powers of the President of the OBH, even as far as appointments were concerned, and set up a separate system. I am also talking here about the proposals that have not been submitted, but have been prepared in a package with what lies before us, and has therefore been submitted separately. Despite the fact that there were a lot of eligible points in this, we have said that we do not contribute to the fact that the system of jurisdiction is a fragmented system in that we only correct problems in certain parts and even leave the criminal and civil directions in the same problems and do not touch the system there. It was a cornerstone of this thing, and we have said this several times, and we will also say in the future that, for as long as this system exists, the President of the OBH could, in effect, do so by circumventing the law, by circumventing the rules of appointment, where precisely because of the procedure of the Venice Commission and the pressure on Hungary from West to the Hungarian Government, it has been slightly altered, which may have meant the exchange of appointments and some restriction of total freedom, i.e. certain appointments and the replacement of rank, well, there is a point left in this which we have already called attention to, and this is a declaration of inefficiencies. If it is possible to do so that tenders will not be judged by the President of the OBH by exchange of positions... - I say that the President of the OBH will always be great, because the temptation will always be great, and if these rules remain, this will always and continue to be a problem, so that even after the chairmanship of Tünde Handó will continue to exist, I am sure, but the point is that if, bypassing them by a tender, several suitable candidates can be declared ineffective, it can be set aside, and it can be said that then no one can complete this position and can be appointed, or can be entrusted for a transitional period, which could not be selected from several suitable candidates, either from their own circle of friends, from their own circle of acquaintances, then obviously, that person can gain enough knowledge in the local court for years, obtain sufficient support of the judges, or agree that there will be no change, because it could not be selected from several suitable candidates, who would eventually have to fill the leadership position, and then - what God - will be able to provide in a better position in the future of an external court. So that's how they play the rules. By the way, we have asked for this minimal amendment from a very minimal and codification point of view, and what is given by God, LMP and MSZP was the idea that if this was corrected, then even the system that had already been put in a more acceptable direction will be drawn to the whole court system, and then we did something, we corrected the court operation. Well, that's not what happened. The Minister of Justice didn't have a mandate to negotiate the system of judicial administration and justice. How is that possible? I don't know that we told you there that you should ask for a mandate from someone who is entitled to do so. This did not happen, and the whole proposal was set aside. And that meant that in the absence of two-thirds support, you had to try to expand the two-thirds framework somehow. This was also said when these proposals were partially tabled, so there was something that had been rejected and there were proposals that had been brought here, but still there was no way of completely circumventing the fundamentality, and the Constitutional Court rightly said that these corrections, which are now coming in, must indeed be made. [[10.20]] And you didn't do this again by, say, discussing with the opposition what points the cornerstone could be secured to, but simply by making sure that all the parts that contained the cornerstone were modified, and, in fact, in these points, the old system is restored even in the names. So there is no other way to vote for this than, say, with one abstention, because the two-thirds, forced amendments failed. However, this part could still be yes, but it is not possible to vote in favour, because it was already a story told and made aware by the opposition that this would end, so that it does not look like everyone here except the government is guilty of this situation, the President of the Republic, like the Constitutional Court or the opposition, while the government has done everything in its power to move administrative justice forward. I would not agree to other details that have been discussed in the general debates and discussions. Perhaps I would like to underline one thing, one important thing, which may come to light in the future, that we did not support it getting far away from people - and this is particularly important for rural people - judging, because there are trends here that there are professional issues that can only be considered in regional centres. Most of the cases are not like this, and unfortunately, public authorities make mistakes, whether in the municipality or in other places, that this can be corrected even in local courts, so the argument that an average citizen should have to go up to a hundred kilometers, that he will, assuming that he will meet appropriate expertise there; in many cases it is not so, or that it is already problematic to travel so far in a simpler or moderately difficult case, even to a regional centre, not even to county centres. So, unfortunately, we can only abstain on the failed system. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the time frame available. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman Robert Répássy asked for the floor from Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. Répássy Robert puts his microphone on.]] Please restore these five seconds. [[It's happening.]]
u2017-02-21-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to say that we still have time to vote, so I am trying to convince opposition representatives to vote in favour of the bill, because the objections mentioned above were partly about an unsubmitted bill and partly based on error. You know that the bill that you criticized has not been filed by the government, and now it would be unnecessary to agree that their criticism is justified or not. However, the Government has not submitted a proposal to set up an administrative special court otherwise possible under the Fundamental Law. That law is also an opportunity, and, as has been rightly said here, there are countries in Western Europe where administrative justice is organised in this way. But not such a proposal has been submitted by the government, but has proposed that we appoint certain courts to carry out this administrative judicial activity, to carry out that administrative judicial task. Yes, the method in which these courts were designated by the original bill was not constitutional, but only because, you know, the law had a name for these designated courts, which was not in line with the law on the organisation of the courts, which is a fundamental law. So the problem is not so complicated, and that is why we claim that the bill can be born as originally intended after a correction, as originally envisaged. Thus, indeed designated courts or, as is otherwise said in the case-law, only competent courts will act in these cases, to be precise: jurisdiction rules must be amended for the courts and a jurisdiction rule must be amended to make the Metropolitan Court exclusive. So he didn't do anything foolish, the Parliament didn't make a bad decision that couldn't be corrected. Once again, we have this bill again simply because the Ministry of Justice has chosen a bad sign, a solution which is not in line with the law of the court organisation. But I very much stress for many times that, by the way, no one has ever argued or wanted to change the fact that the administrative activity is under judicial control, the administrative activity is under the control of a specialised court, the administrative activity is controlled by a court which is composed of judges specifically appointed for this purpose. So, yes, administrative judges are placed in this position after a specific professional course, in this position, of course, on a tender basis, because the control of the administration requires a specific professional activity, requires special professional competence, so it is never disputed in any country that, for example, the selection of an administrative judge can be an aspect and an important aspect of whether there is otherwise administrative practice for the particular lawyer from whom a judge is appointed. So administrative practice in normal countries and between normal rule of law solutions would not only be a disadvantage but also an advantage for administrative judges. So, this House, I warmly recommend to you, and also to the opposition Members, I wholeheartedly recommend voting in favour of the bill. In a few hours, maybe an hour, this vote could take place. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is also Mr Béla Turi-Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-02-21-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In very short, I think it is worth noting that the misinterpretations that were originally formed around the law were clearly dissipated from what the government's intention was intended for. I think that a little, if not self-criticism; but, indeed, continuing what my fellow Member Répássy started, it is better to define the objectives precisely, clearly and unambiguously. That was the problem here, too. The goal was clear: we want to achieve professional justice, judicial justice, which takes place within a shorter period of time and certainly with greater expertise. If that's the goal, and everyone understands that goal, then I think there's a lot of concern that's going away. That's one of the things I think it's important to say. The other thing is that there can be no doubt that there is a lesson to be learned from this case, namely that the fundamental laws work, and therefore these are the fundamental laws that we ourselves have adopted - and even I thought some of them were too strict to bind to the two-thirds - well, these laws are, in some cases, very effective. It is effective because although we ran a circle that had to be run because the constitutional order wanted it, it also disbanded a lot of doubts that could have remained in the system without doubt. And within the judicial system, I am convinced that there can be no doubt, the system within which it is absolutely necessary to ensure that public confidence is maintained in a way which is sure that it works legally within the constitutional order, in accordance with the law. I think that, if nothing else, with this little circle to run, it was worth running this round, because I think that from now on it is clear and clear that the opposition can do nothing but abstain in the worst case, but if it is to be honest, it supports the law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner nodds.]] I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you have a ten-minute timeframe. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor. [[10.30]]
u2017-02-21-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions. However, I think the content of the comments has also shown that the subject has been a little wider than what is actually ahead of us. But he was very good at pointing out the difficulties that arose in the creation of the law. Because there are many times when the government is accused of not agreeing with the parties. I believe that it was precisely at the time of the conciliation of these legislative packages that the opposition refused to accept parts of the legislative process of two-thirds in any form, so they do not want to set up an independent administrative court. In part, the MSZP, through its own persecution obsession, has visited party courts. It's a little strong in today's constitutional system. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Well, if that's what you're suggesting.]] That anyone would try to set this up or go through with it successfully. So I reassure my fellow Member, Barándy, that there is neither such intention nor such an opportunity on the part of the government nor within the Hungarian constitutional system. The other issue raised by my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, is that the opposition has indeed tried to link matters governed by other fundamental laws to the adoption of this package, and that is why the government has decided not to submit it after an untidy debate arose, and I do not know which of these fundamental amendments we would have ended up with. In this way, it is not possible to create the right within an orderly framework of the rule of law to link everything to everything and to achieve virtually no result. But it has also turned out from Mr Staudt's speech that, by the way, having a special administrative court in Hungary, as it is in most of the Member States of the Union, is not in itself unconstitutional, and this will be brought back to the House at any time if the political star is to stand. It is obvious that sooner or later our descendants will do so in Parliament. Another question is why we're here today. It is clear that the original draft administrative procedure assumed that an independent administrative court would be established, but this could not have been implemented for the reasons I have just mentioned, so that no such draft has actually been submitted. So any sentence or debate that we had in this context between the walls of this House was actually unnecessary from the opposition, and it was unnecessary to raise them and argue about them. During this amendment work, there were still terms in the draft law which were not intended to transcend the two-thirds principle, but we just wanted to indicate that the court is acting as an administrative court within the judicial body which is already in place in these cases. This can be interpreted strictly as having crossed the constitutional framework, because this issue has indeed been regulated differently in other fundamental laws. That's why we're here today. I believe that the amendment brought before the House by the Legislative Committee followed the decision of the Constitutional Court in a literal manner. Once again, I say that the conciliation between the parties in this case, after the Constitutional Court has ordered us to do what we have to do, would overestimate our role, that even after the Constitutional Court's decision, we will come up with something smarter than what has been prescribed for us. That is why this draft is here before us today. I believe that those who do not accept this will not accept the decision of the Constitutional Court. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-21-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on our sitting today. I'm taking an 11:00 break right now. At 11 o'clock, we will continue our work with decisions. [[Break: 10.33-11.03President: Lezsák SándorPublishers: Attila Gelencsér and Loránt Hegedűs]]
u2017-02-21-35	I salute my fellow Members. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision by the President of the Republic on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act on Administrative Procedure, adopted on 6 December 2016 by the Parliament on the date of its meeting, and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/12234/17. Letter from the President of the Republic T/12234/18. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/12234/20. and T/12234/21. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, according to the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility of maintaining a proposal amending the decision and asking for a separate vote. Dear Parliament, First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/12234/20. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 128 votes in favour, 2 against and 50 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the law on administrative procedure, which has not been published, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 127 votes in favour, 31 against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/13091 on the abolition of certain charges and charges relating to administrative administration. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/13091/9. T/13091/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments No 3, 4 and 5 and the group of the MSZP proposed that amendment No 2. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 was proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Ákos Hadházy. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention. Amendment 2 is proposed by Sándor Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/13091/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 180 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/13091/13. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 180 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/12895. by Gábor Vona, Jobbik and colleagues on the seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Dear Parliament, There follows the election of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights by secret ballot of his deputy to protect the interests of future generations. Allow me to pay tribute to the candidate of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Mr. Gyula Bándi and his family. Welcome, Dr. László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights (Applause) The permanent guests of the Parliament and all our dear guests. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that on 30 November 2016, Deputy Commissioner Marcel Szabó resigned from his mandate in order to fulfil his seat as Constitutional Court. The 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Act No. 7 Pursuant to paragraph 2 of § 2, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights proposed the person of his deputy and initiated the election of Mr. Gyula Bándi as Deputy Commissioner of Parliament. Dear Parliament, The competent committees heard the candidate and unanimously supported his election. The proposal and the candidate's professional biography S/13597. Available on the website. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, pursuant to Article I (2) (e) and Article 30 (3) of the Fundamental Law, the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights shall be elected by Parliament for six years by the vote of two thirds of the Members, i.e. 133 Members. Under the provisions of the Act on Parliament, the candidate shall be elected by secret ballot. Dear Parliament, The secret ballot process is as follows. Members can take the ballot in four groups in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members in the corridor on the Danube. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I ask you to use the polling booths at the end of the corridor during the vote. Please place your nomination on the ballot box next to the candidate. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to briefly explain the voting rules, and my fellow Members, with respect, I would ask you to listen to this in your place - I repeat: in your place. Mr. Messenger!
u2017-02-21-36	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed to be the one placed on the candidate on the ballot-paper with two incisive lines placed in squares next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the voter takes the ballot, but does not throw it into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2017-02-21-37	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members or members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I announce that 20 minutes are available for the cast of votes, and that is 11 hours 36 minutes. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a 40-minute break for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation. (Sunning: 11.16-12.02) President: Sándor LezsákJournalists: Attila Gelencsér and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs)
u2017-02-21-38	Dear Parliament, Please take your seats, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He noted that 184 Members participated in the secret vote. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidate. On behalf of Dr. Gyula Bándi, 184 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. The distribution of these is as follows. There was no invalid vote. The number of valid votes is therefore 184. Of which, the number of votes in favour is 178. The number of non-votes is 5, the number of the vote is 1. With this day's effect, the Parliament elected Dr. Gyula Bándi as Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to protect the interests of future generations. Dear Parliament, Now, the solemn oath and the signature of the oaths. I ask Dr. Gyula Bándi, Deputy Commissioner of Fundamental Rights, to protect the interests of future generations, to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to read the oath text and the members of Parliament to listen to it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Gyula Bándi steps into the center of the room. Attila Gelencsér reads the words of the oath.]]
u2017-02-21-39	I, Gyula Bándi, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others. I exercise my position as Deputy Commissioner to protect the interests of future generations for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2017-02-21-40	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the Vice-President-elect to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Gyula Bándi and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. Gyula Bándi was first congratulated by László Kövér, Lajos Kósa, Dr. Imre Vejkey, Dr. Tamás Harangozó, János Volner, Erzsébet Schmuck and János Fuzik.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish Dr. Gyula Bándi effective work and good luck, while thanking our dear guests for their participation. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. Before that, I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] A general debate on the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Iraq on the prevention of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes will follow. Government referral T/13473. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-02-21-41	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In November 2016, we agreed with the Republic of Iraq to avoid double taxation in the field of income and property taxes. The agreement was signed in Budapest following consultations on the basis of the mandate given in the Prime Minister's decision and the Government's decision. The application of the Convention precludes double taxation of the income of individuals and businesses, specifying the scope of which Contracting State has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income or type of property. The Convention provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with an opportunity to exchange tax information and to initiate a conciliation procedure for the proper implementation of the Convention by either Contracting Party. [[12.10]] The Hungarian-Irak Convention is in line with the economic interests of the partner States in a balanced manner, and is in line with international practice in terms of taxing income and wealth, as well as with the principles and regulations adopted in the OECD Model Convention and its commentary. However, it is in line with the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far, and it serves well the development of bilateral relations and the interests of investors. With the adoption of the Convention, we will be the first to have a ratification agreement with the Republic of Iraq on taxation issues from our region. Currently, the Czech Republic from our region is negotiating tax agreements with and concluded with Iraq, and Romania and Ukraine are negotiating, but the tax conventions have not yet been signed or ratified for these states. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. Dear Parliament, Based on what you've said, I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have a 15-minute time frame.
u2017-02-21-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The international treaties on the avoidance of double taxation are basically all on the same page, and the convention before us follows the rules of the OECD Model Convention in this area. For an export-driven economy such as Hungary, it is vital that our bilateral economic relations develop dynamically not only in our traditional markets, but also in new markets. However, it is essential to have a legally regulated environment, the existence of legal conditions. Our exports to Iraq have been fluctuating over the last decade in a rather wide range of values, with a typically modest figure of between 25 and 35 million dollars over the last few years. The conclusion of the tax convention provides a more favourable, transparent economic and legal background for investors of both Contracting Parties, such as the conclusion of the Convention, the recovery of economic relations, and the growth of capital investment. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, we must also underline that the stability of Iraq in terms of Europe's security is one of the most important issues today. The Iraqi government has been fighting the barbarian terrorist organization Islamic State for years, without which there will be no European security, no solution to the immigration crisis, no solution to the migration crisis. There is no war between religions and peoples in the region, the Islamic State threatens all people and all religions, attacks humanity itself, human civilization itself. The Iraqi government is currently unable to enforce the main authority of the state in about a third of its territory, 4.5 million internal refugees are counted and 10 million people are living on humanitarian aid. If the Islamic State is not defeated in the foreseeable future, then these people will certainly move towards a better life, that is, Europe, and we have no doubt that the terrorists will also take advantage of this wave, which is an invisible threat. Iraq needs everyone's support so that it can defeat the enemy and create security and stability. Hungary supports this, so far we have paid EUR 3 million to the EU's reconstruction fund, we have sent HUF 190 million of humanitarian aid to the region, and we have provided 100 scholarships to Iraqi students at Hungarian universities. Well, this is the stability that this treaty is contributing to with your instruments, so I ask you to support the articles of the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-44	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-21-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is the historic moment that I have agreed with all of your words to my fellow Fidesz, so because of the shortness of time, I would not repeat these positive things and the arguments that would really require such a treaty on the avoidance of double taxation with the Republic of Iraq. So what I would really like to add to today's debate is that the orderly legal environment is indeed helping to strengthen economic relations, and indeed there is a political benefit to this convention. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction naturally supports this agreement. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-46	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-02-21-47	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, there is another piece of a system of conventions that is about to come to an end, so, in fact, on the basis of external recommendations and solutions, the governing parties now wish to sign a document that is otherwise in the right direction - in a quotation sign - with the Hungarian Parliament. We must say that the avoidance of double taxation represents a goal which, in fact, has become a general one against which there are various arguments and points of debate that could not and would not make much sense. What might have been able to enrich the lead is the type of capital investment the government expects from Iraq or even from the region or region. So the presentation of a thoughtful economic concept is sure to have been used, but basically we support and support the agreement and the draft before us. All I would suggest to the government is that, if we are talking about the region, say Iraq and economic processes, they should also keep in mind their relationship with their good friends, that if they open an office in Iraq where their settlement bonds are sold, they are rolled out at discount prices, and in many cases they are involved in fictitious bonds in the bond business, this economic strategy is at least questionable. And if we do not see the details clearly, because this was not mentioned in the introduction, then we can assume that he will be caught up in the driving of the government's foreign policy and external economic process, as well as in his bond business. So if you have an influence on your good friends, please shut down that Iraqi office, cut the bond business, not just drive it out, but permanently eliminate it, and it is absolutely clear that if we support agreements that support good economic processes, then you should behave fairly in relation to other economic processes that can still be tied here. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.20]]
u2017-02-21-48	Thank you, Congressman. The other two factions did not indicate their intention to speak. There's no independent congressman in the room. I'll see if anyone wants to speak in two minutes. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask if there are any other representatives who wish to speak. (No one's reporting.) No. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the tightening of procedures in the field of border surveillance until closure. The government referral is T/13976. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-21-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The terrorist attacks over the past period, including the attacks in Berlin and Istanbul, have clearly highlighted the link between terrorism and migration. While France, Belgium and Germany were the main target of terrorists in the past, there is now a risk that the activities of terrorists may appear to have shifted from Frankfurt to Central Eastern Europe, according to information. Hungary's interest is that illegal immigrants whose asylum applications have not yet been definitively assessed should not be allowed to move freely in the country, due to the increasing terrorist threat, the security risks already present in Western Europe. Last Friday, only 235 people tried to enter Hungary illegally last Friday, which is a record this year. Police, border police, and soldiers prevented 171 people from entering the country illegally, intercepted 64 people and escorted them back to the temporary security border. At its meeting on 11 January, the government decided to tighten the rules on asylum procedures in order to ensure that Hungary and the Hungarian people were safe. At the southern border, we protect not only the safety of our own citizens, but also the safety of all European citizens. With this bill, we will further increase the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people, thus tightening the legal barrier. The most important change in the proposal submitted is that those who have applied for asylum will not have the right to stay in Hungary until final examination of the procedure. The applicant for recognition may lodge an application for recognition only in the transit zone. The designated location of these persons will be the transit zone. The government's aim is to prevent people who may pose a risk to national security or terrorism. Instead of staying in the transit zone for a maximum period of 4 weeks, the maximum period of stay shall be until a final decision has been taken. According to the current legislation, if the asylum procedure could not be carried out in four weeks, the applicant had to be allowed into the country. Dear Parliament, The rules of the cross-border procedure will also apply to persons requiring special treatment, such as minors, patients and persons with reduced mobility. There are exceptions for unaccompanied minors under the age of 14, for whom we continue to provide accommodation in the appropriate child protection facility. We provide accommodation, health and other necessary care for vulnerable persons who are to receive special treatment in accordance with international and domestic regulations. In the absence of recognition as a refugee, the applicant shall leave the transit zone in the direction of arrival after a final and enforceable decision and shall not receive any further treatment. The person illegally staying on the territory of the country may not only be escorted within a distance of 8 km from the border mark to the gate of the temporary safety lock, but also from the whole territory of the country. With this solution, all applications shall be assessed in accordance with the cross-border procedure. In order to maintain public order, a new offence is proposed that an asylum seeker who violates the rules on residence at a designated place commits an offence and is subject to detention. Dear Parliament, The submitted bill contains Annex II of 2007 on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. Act LXXX of 2007 on asylum. Act LXXXIX of 2007 on the state border. Act No. 2 of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements amendment of law. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the measures taken by the European authorities for terrorist attacks, it is clear that the focus is increasingly shifting to tightening asylum measures across Europe. The Hungarian position is clear and clear: it shares the position of the Visegrád Four: Europe's borders must be protected, border surveillance strengthened. This bill also contributes to protecting Hungary and Europe's sovereignty and increasing citizens' sense of security. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill and to support the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-21-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to István Németh Szilárd, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2017-02-21-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think that one of the most important legislative proposals for our new national policy lies ahead of us, if not the most important, in order to stop and reposition illegal immigration on Europe and thus on Hungary. The story is not new to anyone, because if we look at only the last two years, 2015-16, then it is clear that the precedents of this bill have been created, and in connection with a consultation with people and a referendum, the questions to which the majority of Parliament was able to answer were raised. It was quite clear here, too, that unfortunately, whatever the Hungarian people want, whatever their will, they can rely only on the responsible government and the governing parties supporting them on this issue. The first is the national consultation in spring 2015, where more than 1.1 million people responded to the 12 questions asked by letter or internet, and the 12 questions made it quite clear that the Hungarian people want us to protect Hungary, protect Hungary's borders, protect our European and Hungarian culture, protect the Hungarian people's life and safety, and not give rise to the pressure that European bureaucrats are putting on this issue, indicating that we should not throw aside either the Schengen or the Dublin conventions, and that we should not fulfil our obligations in that regard, and that we should calmly allow immigrants to come into the country illegally. As a result, if we remember correctly, we were waiting for the united, established position of the European Union and the organised border surveillance and what to do. Over 390,000 people raided the country. We remember the southern borders, the Serbian-Hungarian border, the Croatian-Hungarian border, the Keleti railway station, the thousands of people on the highway. [[12.30]] You can clearly see what this confusion was, and it was already clear to us then that it was not just a mess on the part of the European Union, but a deliberate action, because they said that immigration was a good thing, because it could serve two things. On the one hand, Germany's lack of work force can be restored and, on the other hand, it was also intended to help the demography. Well, the Hungarians didn't ask for any of this, so we had to take matters into our own hands. We remember that we created a technical and legal border lock. In the first round, I am thinking of the temporary safety barrier and the fast-moving wire barrier. With this, we have indicated with a stable technical barrier that there is a border, we have strengthened the border police, we have hired 3,000 border hunters, and we have foreseen the recruitment of 3,000 border hunters and their order to the border. We have put the Hungarian Defence Forces in a position to participate in this task. We created much stricter immigration and migration laws. Two important things: one of them is that smugglers can now receive stricter penalties in Hungary, and the other is a criminal offence to combat this technical border closure. Now these measures have proved in no time that we are right. If we protect the border, if we protect Hungary and the Schengen border of the European Union, then immigrants cannot come there, so the number of immigrants has fallen incredibly drastically overnight. There was also a small battle. One of the Hungarian border crossings was attacked, which the opposition politicians here, under the leadership of Gyurcsány, called a peaceful resistance, a demonstration, but those who lived there were more afraid of death than they would have noticed a peaceful demonstration in this attack. Well, the Serbian-Hungarian border was protected, then the system shifted to the Croatian-Hungarian border. We had to do the same there, and after the transfer of the border locks in autumn, the number of border crossings reduced to zero zero after the transfer of the border locks in September and November. It was not worth coming to the European Union. This meant protecting the southern, south-east, so the Western Balkans border. In the meantime, these Brusselsers figured out that if there were at least 1.5 million people in the European Union who didn't even know who they were, what they wanted, while they were blowing up here and there in Paris, in Brussels, there were very serious acts of terrorism, and it became clear to everyone that terrorism and illegal immigration were hand-in-hand, so until now, even in very extreme cases, Europe has been drinking the juice of this immigration policy, but they still drew to 19 because they said that those who are in there should be distributed some mathematical formula, based on some mathematical algorithm among the others who didn't call them. Because there were people who called them; he told them to come calmly, and then he also named from which country, what nationality they could come from - then only Syrians came to Europe in practice. So it is clear that the difference between the Hungarian position, the constantly cursed and abused, and the Hungarian position, which was clearly cursed by the opposition and in Brussels, in this Parliament. They added that there should be a mandatory distribution mechanism. Technically, they wanted to do this without a head stop or a cap. Then another step had to be taken, and this was already in autumn 2016, the referendum. Here too in the referendum, unfortunately, it became clear that the internal opposition - whether I think of the opposition on the left or the opposition on the right - hit the referendum, and then, as a result of the referendum, almost 3 million 400 thousand people, 3 362 222 people [[Interviews from Jobbik: So what exactly is it now?]] He voted in one direction, so almost 99 percent said that we should not allow the bureaucrats of the European Union to relocate non-Hungarian citizens to Hungary above our heads. The decision was also made. I think the toughest attack was on Jobbik's part, because we didn't expect it after the party president declared that anyone who didn't vote for such a amendment to the Fundamental Law was practically a traitor - well, they didn't vote for it. That was a very tough attack. We expected nothing else from the left-wing opposition, because they were constantly supporting migrants, supporting them, collaborating with the organisations operating here by the Soros empire and calling themselves migrant-friendly, promoting a migrant policy, desecrating national policy [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Well, there's been a referendum. There was no amendment to the Fundamental Law. In the absence of a fundamental law amendment, in the constitutional environment in which we are today, we had to make our decisions in that constitutional environment. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You voted for yourself! You voted him down!]] In the meantime, you can see... [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You voted it yourself!]] I didn't even want to mention what kind of situation we are in, because the question is much more serious than that. It is clear that the European Union, Brussels, has not given up on the transfer of illegal immigrants from the West. In fact, we can now see in the news that the Austrians are doing this on their own, even if it is not yet possible to find the people they wanted to send here. So we have to change the legal environment in any way. But if you'll excuse me, here's a secret service report from an open secret service report. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Which one?]] I'd like to read it. What adds to the situation is that several previous terrorist attacks, in particular in Europe and America, have been attributed to lone wolves in recent years, to which the Islamic State or Al-Qaeda and their associates have provided only inspiration. However, the results of investigations into the assassinations that have been carried out and prevented in time indicate that those who have been effectively radicalized by terrorist organisations in Western countries have been directed online from the IDA locations in Syria and Iraq, often up to the smallest details of the last second before the attack - and I could continue this new situation, which has come up anyway. The National Security Committee has dealt with this at its last meeting, i.e. by giving the Hungarian embassies and foreign representations the opportunity to prevent such cyber attacks, but it is clear that the services also mean that terrorist organisations whose people are already in Europe are in serious contact. I think that in this new situation, and what Mr Secretary of State has just said is that there is an increasing pressure on the border again, and the forecasts, the intelligence projections, say that millions are ready to be organised again either in terms of the Middle East or in terms of North Africa or even Internal Africa. In addition, we find that the absolutely amazing thing is that the Italians continue to land rescued illegal immigrants in Italy, the Greeks refuse to do anything, so in return the European Union will overlook anything and fill the register with money. So, in this situation, Hungary must take action again. Now we are not as alone as we have been, because we have very close cooperation with the V4s, and the V4s are now joined by the Baltic States on certain issues; the three of us, Slovenia, Croatia, and Serbia, which is preparing for the European Union and the Schengen borders, and in fact Bulgaria in the Balkans are among our supporters, and they say that the good policy that we represent is the good policy. This bill, which lies before us - and in which we must decide now - is about tightening up the procedure in the field of border surveillance. I would like to say to everyone here, I know that the first thing we will do, at least for socialist Members, is that we have the opportunity to do this right now. That's not true, it's a special opportunity. Asylum detention is minimal in the case of a criminal offence or in special cases, a very small percentage, so it cannot be used even one percentage. [[12.40]] So in such a situation of mass immigration, on which it is based, the Government bases this bill on the Fundamental Law and the announcement and extension of this situation, in this situation it is worth about as much as the enema to the dead. The purpose is quite clearly formulated in the law. The bill before Parliament aims at the detention and return of illegally crossing immigrants to the border and the full protection of the Schengen borders. I think that this is quite clear, and in the explanatory statement, we also see additional teleological definitions and target-oriented tasks. Let's look at a few things about how the law is trying to facilitate this. It is clear that detention is the most important pass of this law, that it can now be applied not only to illegal migrants who have arrived in any part of the country but also to irregular migrants who have been deported from anywhere in the country. The transit zone is designated as a mandatory place of residence, they must comply with this, and they must also spend the entire period of the asylum procedure and, by the way, the appeal phase here. What is new is that those who have already entered the appeal phase, so they have already rejected it once, have to pay the costs themselves so that they can be hosted here. Otherwise, those who are subject to proceedings will receive care in accordance with national rules and standards in Hungary. And there is also a very important part that the transit zone is open to Serbia, where they can come from. So if someone feels that he is not good here, is not good enough, then he is free to leave the territory of Hungary. And the legal basis for all of this, I would like to emphasise once again the announcement of the crisis caused by mass immigration. I ask my fellow Members, although I do not have much hope that they will support from all sides the bill before us for the benefit of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] expressing his will, together and together, to support him. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-21-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-02-21-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the height of the refugee crisis, in August 2015, more than a year and a half ago, the MSZP proposed that asylum applications be assessed not in the different parts of the country, but in the vicinity of the southern border. It is recommended that reception centres with adequate capacity, with the assistance of all relevant authorities, be established near the southern border of the country. We have also proposed to establish, in close cooperation with our European allies, a system of deportation of rejected asylum seekers. Our suggestions have fallen on deaf ears. Instead, there was a lying, two-faced government policy, as they were talking about the protection of the Schengen borders, while the refugees were quietly allowed to leak to Western Europe. We have repeatedly demonstrated that this border fence and the so-called legal border closure, sometimes very proudly mentioned, did not change the substance. It is clear from the answers sent to my written questions by the Minister of Interior that a significant proportion of asylum seekers in transit zones have entered the country and have been allowed to leave the West. In 2016, nearly 50,000 asylum procedures were abolished. To a large extent, it is clear that the applicants have gone to an unknown place, using the usual language. There is hardly any doubt that the unknown place is almost always Western Europe. An iconic element of this government policy is the tent camp in Körmend. Not only were asylum seekers newly admitted to the country or captured inside the country, but the residents of all previous facilities were also transported to this tent camp, which was apparently unfit for winter accommodation on the western border, even in the midst of the harshest winter weather. Then, in a hypocritical way, they marveled at how ugly these migrants are, that everyone is fleeing to Austria. Really, what a surprise. How does such a nasty thought come to mind of refugees a few kilometers from the Austrian-Hungarian border? So, although it was difficult in the field with border fences, in the end, the road is also open to the West through Hungary. Of course, there is nothing unique about this, as all governments of the so-called Balkan migration route see the way out in the transfer of refugees to the West. However, it was only Viktor Orbán who allowed himself to stand up to the Hungarian and European public as the greatest protector of the Schengen borders. Every time we asked you to account for thousands and even tens of thousands of asylum seekers who disappeared without a trace in Hungary, the answer was that the EU would not allow the freedom of movement of asylum seekers to be restricted. There is hardly a more cynical response from a government that carried asylum seekers to tent camps set up on the western border. Moreover, the answer is not even objectively correct. The institution of asylum detention is known for its application by both EU and Hungarian law and even EU documents. However, at the height of the refugee crisis, in 2015 and 2016, the Hungarian authorities did not order as much detention as in the previous years. While there were 4829 asylum detentions in 2014, this number was 2393, 2621 in 2016, or half of the period when there was no refugee crisis. Furthermore, the rule that asylum seekers may leave the reception centre during the course of the procedure has not been complied with. Following such precedents, Viktor Orbán is performing as a huge innovation here in Parliament, that now they really are taking asylum seekers into custody. However, by reading this bill, it is clear that Viktor Orbán lied here yesterday at the Parliament meeting. This bill is not about the detention of asylum seekers, which is confirmed here today by the Ministry of Interior and the lead speaker of Fidesz. The word "preservation" is not included in this law, but can only be read in its justification, there only as a political PR text. In fact, the legal text provides that the compulsory residence of asylum seekers will be the transit zone, not a reception centre located inside the country. This is where the asylum procedure should be conducted in its entirety. However, the asylum seeker will not be locked up, will not be detained. You can leave the transit zone at any time, but you cannot enter Hungary, i.e. you can only leave the transit zone towards the bordering neighbouring country. So, in contrast to all the opposite gangbangers, the essence of the bill before us is not the detention of asylum seekers, but the pushing of them to neighbouring countries. The difference may be that this time they are not moving to the Austrian border, but to the Serbian border, at least for now. However, if the pressure is back on, I assume that the transit zones set up at the Croatian border will be quickly used, or, in the spirit of practice so far, a transit zone may be placed on the Austrian-Hungarian border. Orbán refers to his government's practice as a model European model, but there is no model tax in this. He's just continuing his practice of pushing refugees around, dressing up in a more sophisticated legal gown. This insane, irresponsible game played by all of Europe and which finally shattered the security of the entire continent is neither exemplary nor exemplary. The more people continue this policy, the more bitter it becomes. Of course, the policy of national selfishness can produce apparent results for a period of time or hour. It is true that after the construction of the border fence, fewer refugees entered Hungary, but the fence and the border lock only temporarily shifted the path of those who wanted a better and safe life, and did not reduce the pressure on Europe. As the other countries have taken similar measures, asylum seekers have again taken a course towards Hungary. This is why new proposals are being submitted, because they want to win the, who pushes problems more effectively to their neighbors. From the policy of national selfishness, we solve it with a bilateral agreement, smart and mentality it can only be a disaster. We can expect a worthwhile solution so far and in the future from strong, united EU action in the interest of each other. It should be clear that less asylum seekers arrive today on the Balkan migration route than in 2015, not because of Viktor Orbán's sword chirping, but because of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey and the gradual closure of the border in close cooperation between the Balkan countries. [[12.50]] Until we can alleviate the crisis that forces people to leave their homes, we cannot establish the conditions for deportation of those who are not entitled to protection, we have no real chance of dealing with the refugee crisis. I ask how these objectives can be achieved more effectively. If Péter Szijjártó enters into a bilateral agreement from Libya to Afghanistan, or if the European Union unitedly encourages reluctant countries of origin to cooperate? However fragmented and cumbersome European policy may be, we believe in the effectiveness of the latter. You must finally understand that until we find a solution to getting knockers home at our borders, there is no solution to this riddle. Once again, their legislative proposal on these most important issues does not say anything, but continues with the tickle-tickle playing with neighbouring countries. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, what a solution the bill provides to the procedure following applications rejected in transit zones. All he says is that the new paragraph of the Asylum Act, which is now to be introduced, in paragraph 10, is, I quote, "The applicant for recognition will leave the transit zone following the communication of a decision which cannot be challenged by any further appeal. But what if the rejected applicant does not leave the transit zone? What did the author mean when he wrote this rule in the proposal? Dismissed? Like what? He's not even in the country. Or are they gonna get him in, then get him expelled, then take him into custody? Or if they're getting him in, what's the point of the whole transit zone procedure? Or will the police and soldiers simply push the otherwise rejected asylum seekers away, along with their children? Are young mothers going to be physically pushed out of the country? Mr. Secretary. And if the Serbs on the opposite side get bored of it and they get up, what kind of situations will this bill create, according to you, with the one sentence that the asylum seeker will leave the country himself? The response of the Serbian authorities may be particularly acute in view of the fact that refugees who have been proven not to come through Serbia are likely to be placed on the Serbian-Hungarian border, and even those who are under the foreign police procedure, and the Serbian authorities will hardly stand by to see that all foreigners residing illegally in Hungary are simply allowed to walk through the territory of Serbia or to be thrown out of the country. It is also questionable what will happen to asylum seekers if the procedure exceeds four weeks, which is mandatory under EU law to allow applicants to enter. Are they allowed into the country or are they openly violating EU law? You can see that the bill does not answer the most important questions in our opinion, so the bill before us does not respond to the two most pressing refugee policy challenges. What if, not a few hundred a week, but, like 2015, the masses of refugees are again on the road? What if the Russian-Ukrainian conflict increases in intensity and thousands, tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of refugees appear at our northeast borders? Because you don't really believe that thousands of people, perhaps tens of thousands, or hundreds of thousands of people, can be placed in a transit zone in just 60 metres of the border until their request is assessed, do you? With the current number of applicants, this can still be done, but what will happen later, as government officials are the ones who have long discussions on how huge masses are ready to go west in the Balkans and Turkey. As far as the threat of a possible wave of refugees from Ukraine is concerned, would my fellow members of the Government lock Hungarians and other people fleeing from Ukraine into transit zones in the 60-metre band? Do you think that would be an acceptable solution to them? As far as transit zones within the 60 m band of the border are concerned, even the government is likely to feel that this may be a problem, which is why an installation located in a different place for transit zones in the crisis caused by mass immigration could be included in the bill. The question is, of course, where do they intend to do this? If they don't want to do it in the border, let's say, let's say, for example, they want to designate this place in Debrecen, because obviously Lajos Kósa would be very pleased to do so, how will they comply with this rule that the transit zone can be left outside the territory of Hungary? The bill doesn't say anything about these questions. Dear Parliament, As Chief Spokesman of the MSZP, I have already adopted our position in principle on the principle of asylum legislation at the political debate day held in February 2015. According to this, I quote, the MSZP is prepared to discuss all reasonable, professional proposals for the management of the refugee wave, which strengthens the safety of Hungarian people and treats asylum seekers as human beings, i.e. humane and fair treatment. The purpose of this bill is obviously not to ensure humane and fair treatment, but because of the many concerns and question marks and the complete lack of comprehensive solutions, it is also more than doubtful whether the proposal serves the safety of the Hungarian people at all. This is not at all visible today, so we cannot support the bill with good heart in this form, and the MSZP is expected to remain in the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, Responding a little bit to the Fidesz lead speech. So, you protect Hungary's borders? Do you defend Europe's borders, the Schengen borders, the Hungarian people, when 15 thousand economic immigrants were brought here through settlement bonds? When 4,000 Russians were granted a permit to enter Hungary and the European Union through the Moscow visa factory, they didn't even know who they were? And after that, when this got busted, it turns out that, probably in a $400 million business a year, with the consent and assistance of the State Department, the Moscow visa factory was even more revamped, and we don't even know how many people came into Hungary and what license? Can Viktor Orbán in this country afford that an Arab billionaire accused of financing terrorism, at his personal request, can enter this country by breaking all the rules? When it turns out today that, in view of Ukraine, thousands of people could receive Hungarian and European EU passports using the naturalisation process, completely illegal? Clearly, these are nothing more than Ukrainian organized criminal circles, criminals, and maybe thousands of terrorists. Do you protect Hungary, Hungarian citizens and the borders of the Union? Ridiculous, fellow Members. These recent cases, which I have listed here at the end of my speech, clearly show what I have already said to Viktor Orbán here in Parliament: the fact that these matters are permissible in Hungary shows that here the Hungarian Government, Viktor Orbán and its own government are the real national security risk and directly endanger the safety of the people who live here with these cases, which can otherwise be traced back to corruption. Shame on you! Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-02-21-54	I now give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2017-02-21-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Hungary is one of the safest countries in the European Union from the very beginning, and therefore we should not be ashamed of ourselves, it is a fact. This is due to the strong and operational solutions of the government, which acted effectively and effectively against illegal immigration in order to protect Hungarian families, people and communities. Hungary has demonstrated with actions since the start of the migration crisis that illegal immigration must and can be stopped. Today, several countries of Europe, who at the beginning attacked Hungarian solutions, unfortunately paid innocent lives for their irresponsible policy of allowing illegal immigration and unlimited migration. Hungary has also demonstrated that the protection of progress in the area of order and public security can be ensured by the right means, while several pro-immigration European countries have faced terrorist attacks, threats, riots, violence and the presence of crime, which is even more disappointing and have become victims. Dear House, The European migration crisis has not ended, as has already been said, and the pressure on the Hungarian border will not stop in the coming years, so the protection of the country's security and the protection of our borders remain a priority matter of national security. Our public security and the protection of our everyday lives remain a priority within our borders. [[13.00]] Illegal immigration, the continuing migratory pressure, seems not to decrease, but to increase and threaten the safety of everyday life, our culture, but also our economic achievements so far. In all cases, we stress that we know and do our duty to refugees, but the protection of our own communities, our families and the authority of the Hungarian people obliges us to make a clear distinction between aliens who come to our country in a law-abiding manner and migrants who do not respect our laws, where appropriate, which threaten the peace and security of our everyday lives. The latter are multiple victims of smuggling people, politicians who are irresponsibly promising invitations and admissions, their own credulity, whom we understand, but whose demands we cannot afford, because we do not want to live in a threat in Hungary. We want and will keep away from Hungary, terror attacks, riots, violence, crime, ethnic and cultural conflicts. Therefore, the current bill aims to ensure that migrants crossing the border illegally are detained and escorted back to the border, effectively protecting the borders of the country and the Schengen borders, so that no one enters the territory of Hungary and the European Union illegally. We are convinced that we will continue to apply and apply the proven method of protecting our borders and protecting our internal security from the beginning. In this case, in order to effectively manage mass immigration, we propose to tighten the rules of the procedures at the Hungarian border in the transit zone by amending the legislative package. This means strengthening the legal border seal while continuing to strengthen physical border protection, which is made even safer by the proposal to amend the current legislative package. T/13976. The aim of the amendment to the package of legislation submitted is to tighten the procedure in the border area so that people with uncontrolled insecure status in Hungary, whose movements and intentions within the country are not known, are not allowed to walk freely in the territory of Hungary, in our settlements, by illegal means. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear House, Open camps, from which migrants have been free to go anywhere, pose a serious security risk. Under the new rules, migrants should wait in the transit zone for the final assessment of their application and be escorted back to the transit zone from the whole country. So far, immigrants could be kept in the transit zone for four weeks, and then they had to be allowed into the country, on the basis of the bill, in the absence of recognition as a refugee, the applicant should leave the transit zone in the direction of arrival after a final and final decision has been taken, with the exception of emergency medical care. The bill also states that the immigration office is not only examining inadequacy in the transit zone, but that there will also be a substantive procedure. This will make the procedure more effective, and in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, all applications should be assessed in the context of a cross-border procedure. A new offence has been drawn up, according to which the asylum seeker, who violates the rules on residence at the designated place, commits an offence and is subject to detention. With regard to the amendment of the package of laws, it is important to stress that the bill ensures the accommodation, care, health and other necessary care of vulnerable persons who are granted special treatment in accordance with international and domestic regulations throughout the course of the asylum procedure, including the duration of the appeal and judicial review procedure. Dear House, Based on the experience gained so far, we expect that both Brussels and the pro-immigration organisations will continue to attack the new regulation, but, as has been the case, we will also defend ourselves in the future, given that this is what our conscience dictates and that we are empowered to do so, after the majority of Hungarian citizens have advocated tightening immigration rules. At the same time, it is important that we protect Europe and strengthen Europe's security, because the amendment of the legislation is partly necessary because migrants, knowing the previous legislation, abuse them, as they abuse EU legislation. Dear House, In Hungary's achievements, successes and strengthening since 2010, the work and efforts of all Hungarians are involved, and respect, respect, values and the protection of our future obliges us to do everything we can to ensure that Hungary is safe by our sense of duty and conscience. Therefore, the KDNP faction supports the amendment of the legislative package and, on behalf of the faction, I ask the Honourable Parliament and my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you were a fair and responsible government and a fair and responsible party association, and if you were correct in a debate, I would be able to arrange this speech today in so far as we agree with the aim of the proposal, its content meets the objectives set and the Jobbik faction will support it. However, in addition to the fact that Szilárd Németh's communication rampage gave the tone as an overture in today's debate, I cannot leave without saying a word. So once in a lifetime, if something is called a national matter, a security policy issue, otherwise quite rightly, because it is common matter, not only in Hungary but also in Europe, but also in Hungary, and not in Europe, that they get into the opposition's various fractions with a pair of feet - otherwise in a completely false way and full of slippages - and then, with great kindness, with reference to the national issue, they ask us to support this proposal. Of course, we are not as arrogant as you are, which is why we will support this proposal, regardless of who submitted it, because we are looking at what is best for the country, what is the safety of the people who live here, and we are trying to make a responsible decision accordingly. But the same cannot be said for you. And if you do not believe me, feel free to search the parliamentary information system, almost word for word in the elements, content and even legal wording of the proposal, which we submitted to the Hungarian Parliament on 16 June 2015. This proposal - another protocol - was submitted to the Defence and Police Committee on 30 September 2015. This proposal has been voted out here, for example, by my previous KDNP fellow Member, the same one that is being brought in and presented to the country as a sort of flag of victory. [[Dr. István Apáti: Oops!]] That if we support this, they will serve the country's safety. Szilárd Németh, in his large speech at 0:0, referred to a successful national consultation in spring 2015 - by the way, I would add, from our tax forints - by the government. It wasn't cheap, but at least it was expensive. And there they came to the conclusion that 1.1 million people asked you - and, in principle, we too - to do everything possible to ensure that there are not only physical, but also legal barriers and legal guarantees to prevent people of uncertain origin and identity from coming to Hungary on the basis of asylum applications. [[13.10]] Then I ask you: despite the wishes of 1.1 million people, what prevented you from supporting the same proposal in September 2015? If it isn't your arrogance, or if it isn't your job, you didn't have any idea what it said, by the way? Although I did look at the report, I told the committee what was in it. It was wisely rejected in the Defence and Police Committee, but no more round buttons were pressed in the Judicial Committee. Let me not list the names of the fellow Members concerned, some who are in the Chamber, some who are not in the Chamber. Well, that's the perfect optics of your policy. That's how they govern this country, that's how they're responsible and that's how they're fair. That's what I used to say. It's not true what they're asking. And I'm telling you this for a reason, because it's unrated, what's important is what's important, which is in the best interest of every citizen, on important matters. Now I don't want to refer you back to the Olympics or any other issue, it's a matter of security policy, and that's what they're doing. They're talking about fighting terrorism, and you're doing everything you can to keep this country in order, and you're happy to say that it's the safest country in Europe. Well, let's at least keep it between ourselves and note in parentheses that it's not up to you at all. By the way, I don't dispute that it's one of the safest countries, but it's not because of your performance, it's because of many other indicators. By the way, I would like to call you, too bad Szilárd Németh is not here, because he has listed the elements with which we have contributed to the country's security. There was only one element I could not hear that would otherwise have been proposed by Jobbik long months or, where appropriate, years earlier, and otherwise we would not have supported, there was only one thing I had not heard. It was the Fundamental Law, which, by the way, you voted down today, for example, quietly, wisely, but voted off. So don't tell me what kind of assassination the Jobbik has committed against Hungarian society here. Yeah, yeah, we voted against your proposal because we told you in advance, not even for money. You can grin here, my fellow Member Vas Imre, the thing is that you can make money from anyone, from anywhere, at any time. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] They can say anything, if Juncker or Merkel were so loved by them, I don't know what number of quotas he'd be buying from you now, they wouldn't want to let him in, they'd insist on coming. Are you talking about the risk of terrorism when, at the end of November last year, at the beginning of December, 80 kilometers from the front of the Islamic State, you're opening an office in a mall in Erbil, calling out that you can come within the Schengen area for 60,000 euros? Who have been idly watching for many years that a visa factory operates in Moscow [[Dr. István Apáti: Yes!]] What businessmen - the businessman - does the Hungarian Prime Minister do business with, or his family members, or with whom the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its companies conduct business? Are you referring to the elimination of national security risks? It's completely discredited and absolutely amazing what they're doing! And now, when they keep lying about not needing the bond anymore, it's just for public finances, it's an economic maneuver, there's one of you... [[Károly Kontrát: Mr President, draw the Member's attention to talking about the bill.]] Mr. Secretary, I've listened to you, and I want you to listen to me. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. Secretary, why don't you... [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: It's outrageous! He started talking about it at 12 minutes. Dániel Z. Kárpát: Szilárd Németh's workshop had nothing to do with it. He didn't know what the facts were? Dr. Vas Imre: You clearly didn't understand.]] Secretary of State, I haven't heard. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] how he would have told Szilárd Németh, who talked about something completely different for 13 minutes, and came to the proposal in the last two minutes. [[Noise.]] I did not sell a bag cat so much that I said at the beginning that we would agree and support the content and purpose of the proposal, and we agree, among other things, because we submitted the same thing two years before you. You can smile. You can smile. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] Next time you come to a committee meeting, at least read the motion and vote. [[Dr. István Apáti: Why didn't you read it? ...like a nuke.]]
u2017-02-21-58	Gentlemen. Fellow Members! There is a general speaker's speech, so the lead speaker cannot be disturbed from either side or from the other side. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-59	Thank you very much. Returning to the Fundamental Law, it is possible to say, and it can be done by using the anti-Teacher propaganda machine, which stands behind you, which is in the form of a public-funded, foot-media propaganda machine, and who is the traitor here, I would like to point out that treason is very nice for people who otherwise do everything in order to make sure that if someone gives money, there is nothing wrong with it. This is the essence of the constructions you operate, and this is the legislation you have made, the loophole of all the legislation. In each legislation there is the possibility that if someone otherwise has a sufficiently thick wallet or bank account, it doesn't matter whether they come from a third country, it doesn't matter whether the Hungarian secret services are able to guarantee a hundred percent guarantee that a person is not a member of any organized criminal circle, doesn't pose a security policy risk to Hungary or to a Member State of the other Schengen area in Europe, they don't know such things, but if he has money, he can come; and those who are not necessarily part of this narrow elite, they demonstrate strength on them. There's nothing wrong with that for the country's safety, we never said they'd come, we're just saying we shouldn't apply double standards. We say that we close any loopholes that you otherwise leave in order that neither the poor nor the rich, whether it be a simple migrant or a terrorist with bad intentions. Is there any of you who dares to stand up and say responsibly that there is no security risk among those who have been buying bonds or coming after customers who are coming to a family reunion? [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Németh Szilárd.]] No one has ever been able to prove either at the closed meeting of the National Security Committee or at the closed meeting of the Defence and Police Committee or at any of the services, because all my questions concern that we, who have a national security screening, know exactly what filters must be passed through, and what is being done by the Counterintelligence Office, the Constitutional Protection Office, in order to be able to say responsibly about us that neither we, nor the person in our environment, or any other relationship, are at risk. But can the Constitutional Protection Office or the Counter-Terrorism Center say that on arrival in a Caribbean region? Can you say that to a man from Asia? From an Inner Africa where, by the way, you advertise settlement bonds with public money, can you tell me? You can't tell me because it's physically impossible, because you don't go out for an environmental study, you can't even prove that the documents you gave him are either true or false, or you bought it for money, as it turned out for the Russian businessman who got busted. It's a security risk independent of us and independent of you. Recall the indignation when the numbers on the first quotas came to light. If I remember correctly, they wanted to force the first tour from Brussels to Hungary in 1100 people - that they were outraged that they had asked for it! This number's already been released multiple times for money. Only through bonds, at least 8,000 people who are managed by immigration and citizenship statistics. Then how much more is going on, we do not know how much more than 4,000 of Moscow's visas have been issued through the visa factory you operate, we do not know how much they came in. And then who are you to be responsible for saying that no one has any concerns, that we guarantee security? For once in your life, really, if there's a national issue and a security issue, let's be honest. But in return and in short, we will support this proposal, but only one question remains as to where these transit zones will be. What if the pressure is increasing and, let's say, the transit zone that is being created is physically unable to provide for all those people, then what happens? So, is there any other alternative plan A, B, C geographically, or is there a location where the new or the new transit zones are assigned, if necessary, to be extended? [[13.20]] Should people living in settlements near the southern border be afraid? Because many times they promised to shut down all the camps, shut the open camps down, and otherwise we'll shut them down. But they didn't stop. They promised me a lot of times, but nothing happened. That's an open question right now. We hope that it will not be necessary - but what if the current capacity is low? I'd like you to answer that. In any case, we consider it important, and yes, let us be clear that the position you referred to from 2015 until today that the European Union would not allow refugees to be detained was a great lie. The 2003 European Union Council and other EU documents are also explicitly an opportunity. You didn't live with that on purpose, the big question is why. You should explain to yourself what happened in the last two years, which woke you up, that this proposal was voted off in 2015, and in February 2017 it was hung up like a red ulti on the table, that there was a solution. It would be good if we did not have to communicate at this level on this issue, but after what Szilárd Németh has said, I think that I have restrained myself much more than I could out of anger and confront him with the many lies he has told and what you have done in the past, unfortunately, on such matters, which should not be degraded to party political level, and we should continue such debates. In any case, we'll support whatever you think. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ákos Hadházy, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Of course, in the beginning, it must be said that we may agree or surely agree that the refugee issue is a huge issue for Hungary and for Europe, and I do not think anyone here would question that. Maybe it's not about who's asking and who's having a problem. Obviously, Europe, Hungary, is obviously a problem for refugees, and it is obviously a problem for countries that these people leave behind. Nor is it certain that we agree, nor do we agree, that politicians cannot commit any greater sin than if they use the misery of men, the fears of men, or the emotions of men to their own advantage. That's what this law is all about. I'm taking advantage of this opportunity, and even though you're waving no at your head, I'd like to give you another example of who they are who can still commit this ferret. There was a man, a minister, not in Hungary, but in Greece, called Panos Kammenos, who, according to The Telegraph's report on 10 March 2015, said that 10 thousand refugees would be given passports to enter the Schengen system, and that they would open the borders of Turkey if Europe failed them in the financial crisis, they would not be helped, we would flood them with refugees, and it would be even worse for Berlin if we sent some jihadists in the flood of economic refugees, we would send terrorists from the Islamic State. He said if they hit us, I mean, the Germans, we're gonna hit them, and we're gonna give all the migrants papers so they can get to the Schengen area and get to Berlin. It's a ferret! That's what Secretary of State Nikos Kocias said, basically with the same content. What you're doing is the same: people's misery and people's emotions, people's fears are being used to reap your political benefits and to take attention away from serious problems. The death of people can indeed be caused by politics. Politics can cause it if it does not create security, but there are many other ways politics can cause it, and you, with these alibi laws, would like to divert attention from these omissions. It can cause people to die, probably a lot more people to die than before, thank God, terrorism caused, for example, the lack of disinfectants in the bathrooms of hospitals and clinics. No! There's a lot of toilet paper. This will cause hospital infections, hospitalized infections, and this will show how many people die; it is difficult to detect, but it can be shown how many people die. There are other things that are already statistically more difficult to detect, not as spectacular as when a bomb explodes, but deaths are the consequences of many doctors leaving Hungary, for example. This is also due to government policy. At a time when Szekszárd has only one doctor on duty, and that is an old, retired medical doctor, and he will take care of all the urgency, people may die in it, and even if an inexperienced physician is left on call. People die in this, but not so spectacularly, but also the result of government work. And that's what these alibi laws like this are for. If we don't deal with the fact that dozens of villages have a drug problem that we can't imagine, and in dozens of villages, a lot of young people and middle-aged people are intoxicated with drugs, or find comfort in that, they don't care, there's no drug policy, there's no drug policy, there's no drug policy, so long as they thought it might be something to do, maybe it's a way to prank people, that's the idea that you'll have to do a mandatory drug test, and then it came out that you can't make political capital out of it. It doesn't matter. People die in this, too. Then they die of alcoholism. In Hungary, 800,000 people suffer from alcohol, but they do not deal with it. No politics, no laws like that. Why aren't there laws to do with this? The only thing they could think of was the possibility that alcohol stores might have to be brought into tobacco stores. It's not about anything else. Why aren't we talking about this? Not one person dies in it, not ten people, but hundreds of people, thousands of people die in this problem, and with this problem, you simply haven't felt like working for years because it's not gonna be good campaigns. And we could continue with social security. Over the past year, the National Health Insurance Fund has been quietly removed, simply shredded, placed in the Ministry of Human Resources, spread out of the country, placed certain legs in government offices. One thing: when I asked what it was for, they said it was because it would make new programs for billions. The fact that there is health care at all is due, on the one hand, to the doctors and nurses who stayed home, to their heroic work, and, on the other hand, to professionals who have given their expertise to the country in the National Health Insurance Fund for not too much money, they are trying to keep health care working with less and less money. But you will eliminate me! That's gonna kill people if this goes on. And there could be many other examples, and I will. [[Károly Kontrat: The Member is not talking about the bill, Mr President.]] This all points to the law I'm talking about, it's all about the law. The law is an alibi law, a law of no use, but it's for you to be the subject of public life so as not to talk about what's more important. But then let me take this time, as unpleasant as it may be, I know it's embarrassing. Everything I'm saying is all about the law, and it all explains why I need this law. When he comes down a road that hasn't been cleaned up properly, because there's no EU resource for that - building the road is a great party, because it can be counted at three to four times the price. It's built with EU money, but then, when it's supposed to be cleaned, there's no EU funding for that. People are gonna die in that, too. That's also the government's responsibility. Not as spectacular as when a bomb exploded, thank God it didn't explode, only one man died, it was a policeman who died in an ambush on a Hungarian far-right man. Thank God we're just doing this, and how terrible it is that one man is dead. But in addition, many, many people - we could calculate - will die because of your slendria, your neglect and your politics. I am quite certain, because I know this because there were also suicides in foreign exchange creditors, which were linked to the fact that Mr Matolcsy refused to give up the profits that the foreign exchange credit changeover had delivered. These are also taken away by this law. It's all connected to this law. [[13.30]] Foreign currency loans could have been exchanged for 160 HUF, they didn't, because they could have been won on this. He won hundreds of billions of forints on it by Mr Matolcsy, which he is messing with, which would be very unpleasant, but the migrant issue, the refugee issue, can be forgotten. And then, when there's no more idea, I'm gonna bring in a law like this, which is basically nothing else. We could talk about education. People may not die, but their lives will be ruined if they work with bad textbooks and bad curricula. Tens of billions of forints were stolen, as much as you like to laugh, tens of billions of forints were stolen from educational reform, resulting in children learning from terrible textbooks and terrible instructionals. Technically, it's not getting better, it's getting worse, and you're taking away our future. These children may not die from this, but their future will certainly be ruined, their lives will be ruined because of you. And you can laugh about that. These laws are basically taking the attention away from this. You know very well that today's regulation is no different than what you want to introduce. You know very well that virtually as of today, there are already more refugees in captivity than there are in open reception centres, and you know very well that both EU law and Hungarian law allow asylum seekers to be kept indoors for 6 months. In fact, there will be only one difference if they can do so from now on with people under 14. This law is a ferret law. It's just to get attention about the real problems. Thank you very much. [[To intervene:]] Unfortunately, it happened.
u2017-02-21-62	Dear Parliament, I do not want to comment on the last word of Congressman regarding the sign; it is your right, but it is an insult to the dignity of this House. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member is present in the Chamber, I will ask the congresswoman if she wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have a very interesting law before us, and as I have listened to it here in the debate, we have repeatedly come up with what belongs to this specific law and what can be said in the debate, which we do not. We are very fortunate that there is still such a thing as a general debate and, in the context of the general debate, we have the opportunity to look at what kind of environment a particular legislation can be implemented. I think that we need to talk about a number of things in Hungary when we talk about security risks and security challenges. So in this way, I think that all the debates on this subject here in this House are legitimate. Szilárd Németh mentioned how refugees roamed all over Hungary. I would like to remind you that it was precisely the Hungarian government and the Hungarian state institutional system that allowed this to happen. Let us remember that when Parliament's committees at the beginning of 2015 did have information on what a security environment change would be expected, 6 and 7 months had passed without the government doing anything to prepare for the situation that would arise against opposition proposals. Neither the public institution system has been prepared nor the corresponding infrastructure requirements have been met during this period. I think this is a huge sin of the Hungarian government. It's a great sin! And the opposition has repeatedly, in several forums and in several committees, drawn attention to the need for action. It is true that the security environment has actually changed. We see that there are still conflicts in many places in the world, and it can be seen that some conflicts can be calmed down with international cooperation, but there are still no substantive solutions. So, yes, it can be expected that there are consequences that will appear in the future in Europe in this way. But in such a case, a delay of several months cannot be allowed. So from now on, what the government says to me can't be credible in any way. And when they started to act, what happened after that? For months, even almost a year, there have been unblessed conditions on the Hungarian border for all those who have fled from the war, for all those who have tried to take action, such as the Immigration Office and its colleagues, and for those who serve at the border: policemen and soldiers. Now we see that they've been trying to refine this, there's been wintering and other things. By the way, my fellow Member and I were able to take a personal look at this at the border. I think that wasn't enough, but you can see that there are already steps in this. But it has been many months, too, that the state has not guaranteed - or provided - the security of those who arrive, fleeing from the war, nor of those whom it expected to protect Hungary to serve there, and to be able to perform their duties to the full. I hope that in the future the conditions there will improve. I'm really asking you to keep an eye on this. Furthermore, there is a complex situation facing Europe, Hungary, too, and really, let us not talk about Hungary separately, because a complex solution is needed to manage and deal with this situation in the future, and such a solution can be implemented by the Member States together. This should not be limited to police measures. Obviously, there is one element, but there are humanitarian elements, there are legal elements, such as you are trying to find a legal solution, there are political elements. After all, we see that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey has brought about a substantial change in the situation. Therefore, these elements must be highlighted, and they can only and can only work together. The European Union can also act together on this. Information is very important, because a lot of people are one in one, very wrong, and they are bringing the issue of refugees and terrorism together. There must be good people everywhere and bad people everywhere. I think it's one-on-one non-smuggling. The fact that there may be security risks, however, this information is very important and should be sought to ensure that there is as close cooperation as possible within the European Union. Obviously, there may be conditions for this, since it is largely based on trust. So, obviously, Hungary should strive to have the confidence that is needed to share information against Hungary. This is a fundamental condition, and I am not sure that the government is doing everything it can for this reason, and it often seems to be destroying this situation. So we have seen that the last year and a half has been a year and a half about how the government, according to its own internal political interests, should turn into a situation and a problem that is actually real and that needs real measures and solutions together. By taking a slice of this situation, not only is it based on people's fear and fear, it is a great sin, as Congressman Hadházy mentioned, but on the other side it is also taking the solution very, very far away. So, if you focus on one point, it's impossible to come up with a complex solution, which will distract the government itself in a very, very wrong direction. It is proposed that the conditions for the crisis caused by mass immigration be extended by the government. We saw that conditions were defined, quite exact numbers. We know that these figures have not been up in recent months, but now it seems that if any threat to the migration situation exists, it would be necessary to maintain this crisis caused by mass immigration. This, in my opinion, merely means that this whole situation will become territorial, a question, and in essence the government can do whatever it wants with this thing. Unfortunately, there is no confidence in the government on our part and very, very many people on their part to handle this situation properly, which they need to deal with. The fight against terrorism has been mentioned; I would like to mention this as a specific subject. It is obviously important here to highlight, for example, the fight against organised crime. On both issues, I would like to ask how the government protects Hungary. What is the government talking about when Gaith Pharaon could come to Hungary by recording the information from the Hungarian embassy section that he will be attending dinner with the Prime Minister? And from then on, the entire state institutional system closed its eyes as if there were nothing, no matter whether there are fingerprints or no prints, it prints with its forehead, it can enter Hungary. For example, how do they protect Hungary from such a person, how does the government, the state institutional system, serve only the business interests of a narrow circle on the basis of a political order? How can you talk about protecting anyone at a time like this? - besides your own business interests, I suppose. [[13.40]] Settlement bonds: also a huge security risk. Unfortunately, there were several examples where it turned out that criminals could also come to Hungary. They sell government bonds, sell them through offshore companies that do not pay a forint tax in Hungary, and have no profit in the national economy. Oh, that five-six-seven offshore company has already made over a hundred billion, and it certainly has some use there. And by the way, the time will come - because this will not be forgotten - when those who have given political orders to do so, so the political responsible, as well as those who have carried out this whole construction, will be held accountable in the same way as the Pharaon case, in the same way as the issue of visas in Moscow, will be held accountable in this matter. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Is that what the independent say?]] Because these are substantial security risks I'm talking about. So from this point forward, any statement by the government that protects Hungary, protects Hungarian people, is completely uncredited, and an incredibly absurd situation emerges, because there is no need to flee from anywhere or mass at the Hungarian border, but simply through the state institutional system, everyone gets all the documents to come to Hungary, and even within the European Union, these people can move freely. The security of the Union is also at risk. Of course, this is not happening spectacularly, and I can see that the government is reluctant to talk about it. I can assure you that we will talk about this matter again, and at least with the same amount of eIan that we have seen from you in the last year and a half on the refugee issue, you should at least deal with those cases as big as you do with thousands of people, tens of thousands of people, including criminals wanted to finance terrorism, and many others, simply because of the business interests of a narrow circle. This is also a huge risk, and I suggest you start dealing with these matters. I think that we will, in any case, keep these on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ákos Hadházy applauds.]]
u2017-02-21-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches from its representatives, and I will give the floor first to the Members who have applied for a written speech. Statement will be made by Mr Imre Vas, Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-21-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The greatest threat to Europe's security is the migration crisis and terrorist attacks. It is clear that we are talking about the biggest crisis in the Schengen area so far. It is time for the leaders of the European Union to finally stop illegal migration and protect European people. However, until the European Union's leadership can deliver an acceptable solution, only regulation at national level can be effective and effective. In order to protect the state border and maintain public order and public security, complex legislative and organisational decisions have been taken so far which have contributed to the effective protection of Hungary and the Schengen area. There has long been no debate on Europe's danger and illegal immigration is a threat to people's daily lives. At present, the greatest threat to women is immigration and the introduction of migrants, and this is well demonstrated by the rise in violence against women and children in European cities where migrants have appeared. Together, the measures so far have proved to be effective, and the deep border surveillance introduced last year is also effective, but practical experience and worrying news of terrorist attacks in Western Europe justify further changes. It is necessary to amend the current legislative environment in order to enable those with established international protection needs to be identified as quickly and effectively as possible and illegal migrants without such protection needs to be expelled. In order to achieve this goal, the bill before the Parliament would introduce further restrictions on the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people. In Western Europe, illegal immigrants have committed a number of acts that pose a significant security risk in these countries. The possibility for asylum seekers to move freely in the territory of the country by circumventing the rules should be excluded, thus becoming potential perpetrators of crimes and acts of terrorism, thereby increasing security risks and the threat of terrorism. This is the purpose of the bill before us, which consists of the amendment of five laws, the most important element of which is to ensure that the foreign police authority carries out foreign police detention in the transit zone in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration and designates a mandatory place of residence there. The application for asylum may be lodged only in the transit zone, and the person illegally staying in the country during a crisis caused by mass immigration could not only be brought to the transit zone within a distance of 8 km from the border, but from the whole territory of the country. This provision, in our view, significantly reduces the security risks posed by illegal immigrants. It is necessary to prevent the free movement of rejected asylum seekers in the country and within Europe, for which a final, final and enforceable decision has not yet been taken, and the current bill serves this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of migration is about the future of Hungary. Hungary has taken a course in recent years that is characterised by development, stability and security. The security of our country is our common national interest, and therefore the Fidesz fraction fully supports the government's actions to build and operate the effective defence function of the state with a view to ensuring the security of people and order. The Fidesz fraction supports the bill so that these necessary changes can take effect, because with these modifications the safety risk can be reduced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been almost two years since the migration crisis has defined our daily lives and the EU agenda items that we are discussing here in this House. We are saddened to see that this challenge is not something the European Union can do. Moreover, we have seen in the European Union since last June because of Brexit that a so-called disintegration process has indeed been strengthened. I could also say that he is experiencing the biggest crisis in the history of the European Union in these years. [[13.50]] But let us stay, fellow Members, at migration, at the migration crisis. We see that, over the last two years, a number of proposals have been made in Brussels that have not really resolved the migration crisis. As we have heard from our fellow Member, Imre Vas, as the protection of the external borders of the continent falls within the national competence of that country under EU law, so in recent years, the Hungarian Government has, at the initiative of the Hungarian Government, ensured the protection of the Hungarian border by adopting laws. The Hungarian approach to this issue has been clear, clear and consistent from the outset: strengthening the physical and legal border closure, thereby controlling the migration flows. Hungary cannot be a gateway, and I believe that it is our shared responsibility to ensure the principle of free movement for everyone within the Schengen area. Yes, without external security, there can be no internal freedom. I would like to remind my fellow Members that in 2017 it will be ten years since Hungary became a member of the Schengen area. I remember waiting hours at the Austrian-Hungarian border. And I also remember what it meant, for example, in my constituency, in Sátoraljaújhely, to abolish border controls for people on both sides of the border. After all, in Zemplén, on the other side, there are over 40,000 blocks of Hungary. And it is very clear that joining the Schengen regime has brought an economic, cultural and political relief. And that, I believe, is a national political interest in preserving the Schengen acquis. Therefore, honourable Members, it is important not to allow Schengen to become a victim of the migration crisis. This is why it is important to have a bill before us, which is actually, we have heard, based on three pillars, and I believe that it must be reaffirmed: (1) the rules for the conduct of the asylum procedure at the border; (2) the full protection of the Schengen borders; (3) the protection of the Schengen borders. Prevention of unauthorised entry into the territory of Hungary and thus the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Malta will chair the Council of the European Union this year. I had the opportunity to experience at the COSAC President's meeting in La Valetta in January this year, how the Maltese Presidency, whether at EU or Member State level, imagines dealing with the migration crisis. Last year, we all know, it was still about relocation, the mandatory relocation mechanism, but today, I believe, and in my negotiations, I have seen this as a kind of consensus on the external aspects of migration. No one now disputes with the European Commission or the European Parliament that the migration crisis is not a temporary but a lasting phenomenon. We also know that millions of people in Africa are ready to set a course for Europe in the coming years. The Maltese Presidency therefore also focuses on tackling the root causes of migration and on cooperation with the issuing countries. We've finally achieved this! And one of the main objectives is to promote stability in Libya. It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the aspects that Hungary has long stressed in relation to migration do apply step by step. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill in question, I believe, fits well into the legislation that has been passed so far in dealing with the migration crisis. It is clear that the main reason for the creation, the creation of this law, is that asylum seekers often do not wait for the end of the asylum procedure, they do not want to cooperate with the Hungarian authorities, and they go to an unknown place or disappear, as we say, and this has caused countless problems and has caused tragedy not only in Hungary but primarily in Germany. No one wants that. Not even a politician, but we can only think about it with common sense: how do we want to control the migrant flow, if migrants can walk freely until they are judged? Indeed, there is a small hole in European legislation, which is being used by migrants for their well-conceived interests, and unfortunately, this has worked successfully for them so far. And we know that leaving to an unknown place is an older Member State. They will not stay in Hungary, but everyone will go to Germany, and these asylum seekers will disappear from the eyes of the authorities, creating no small danger not only for our country but for the safety of Europe as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this bill before us is a worthy answer so that asylum seekers do not abuse the possibility of free movement. This solution may be considered as strict, but it is simply not possible to control this process in any way, barn or twist it. During the course of the asylum procedure, therefore, if the bill is adopted, the asylum seeker will be assigned a compulsory place of residence. Thus, asylum seekers must not disappear or disappear without a trace from the eyes of the Hungarian and European authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, Strengthening the legal border closure, I believe, is also justified because the mandatory relocation of asylum seekers between Member States simply does not work. For example, it is enough to look at the Commission's recent report published two weeks ago, which makes it clear and clear that only a few thousand asylum seekers have been relocated. It's barely a few thousand! This also shows that instead of the mandatory allocation of asylum seekers, protection of external borders must continue to be the primary objective in which, I believe, this bill fits well. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group, is now calling on us in a normal time frame. Here you go. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]]
u2017-02-21-69	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I decided, listening to the comments, that for one reason I would comment on this current debate of the law. I have heard from my fellow Members a serious concern about the increase in security risks, the threat of the Schengen area or the rise in the risk of terrorism. I think this concern is right, because we are living in an age when we really need to pay attention to these dangers, and we cannot allow a person with such security risks to pass security checks in one case, and not to give God, in Europe or anywhere else in the world, to cause tragedy. So this idea is in any case correct. Then I have heard from my fellow Members, and I am trying to quote them precisely that Hungary cannot be a gateway, that these people are free to walk around, that free movement must not be abused, because that is not what the Schengen system is about, and you would all agree with them, but then there is a question that these sentences apply to asylum seekers, migrants, but not criminals. So how is it that criminals are allowed to enter Hungary legally, whether they are involved in any crime, economic crime, prostitute or someone that can be brought together by terrorism? [[14.00]] How is it that these people can legally enter Hungary today? How is it that when we are debating it in the House, and we are asking the various ministries at committee meetings or right here in Parliament, that criminals who, for example, received visas in Moscow and entered Hungary, were also - as it turns out - criminals and were caught somewhere in Spain or France, these people are not a security risk to Hungary because they did not enter Hungary, but went to other countries of the Schengen zone. Now in this debate, I am listening to the fact that the protection of the Schengen area is above all, which is, by the way, a correct statement. Or we hear that the problem with migrants is that they do not want to stay in Hungary, but go abroad, that they abuse the possibility of free movement. But criminals abuse it, too, Mr. Secretary. [[Károly Kontra: We will catch them!]] So I would like to expect the government to put on the agenda the question that the legal border lock applies not only to migrants but also to criminals. Today, in 22 places in Hungary, the possibility of issuing visas to third countries is outsourced to 16 countries, these institutions give Schengen visas, and we see how this worked in Moscow, or how it worked in the case of the Saudi businessman referred to by the congresswoman. So it would certainly be worth talking about, as we fear the Schengen area of asylum seekers, we fear the country of asylum seekers, that, Mr. Secretary of State, we should equally fear the country and the Schengen area from prostitutes and criminals, and from so-called entrepreneurs who come here who are potentially suspected of terrorism, come from Russia or from any other direction. And you don't understand exactly why a member of the government gives you a pass on this. I was sitting at the National Security Committee meeting where the Secretary of State was, and where the services reported on how they had done in this case. Unfortunately, it's not much to talk about in public, because it was a closed session, but it may be said that everyone said that everything worked perfectly, or that someone didn't do something because they didn't have the right to do it, or who had the right to do it, said that everything was done professionally fantastically and everything was perfect. Compared to this, we know that there are indeed criminals who could enter Hungary with Schengen visas, in violation of these rules, and who could take advantage of the possibility of free movement in the European Union. Once again, I do not understand why Sándor Fazekas, a colleague of yours, cannot answer the question that if there was a national security investigation carried out by AH under your supervision, this man failed, so if he failed, it means that the authority responsible for detecting such security risks said that this man carries a security risk. This happened once in 2011, then it happened again in 2013. So if someone hadn't read the report at first time, it would have read it the same way for the second time, and at that committee meeting, as Mr. Secretary had listened to it, the register was only extended to include this person as a person with a security risk. Then the question is why it is important for a representative of the Hungarian Government to continue his business. So you fear the immigrant and the migrant and the asylum seeker in Hungary, but you contribute to the political level so that these people can enter the country and commit crimes. So I would say once again that we would like to propose that the government should also negotiate - we hope that it will be possible again in the Committee on Foreign Affairs - how this visa issue system works and whether it works well, and I would ask with due respect here the honourable members of the government that the legal border closure - I say once again - applies not only to asylum seekers, the poor, but also to criminals and courtesans. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced by István Ikotity in the notary seat.]]
u2017-02-21-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gábor Bányai, Member of the Fidesz Group, will be speaking. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the interest of raising awareness, let me say that the title of the proposal is to amend certain laws relating to the tightening of the procedure in the field of border surveillance. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: General debate!]] This is true, a general debate, but if we were to talk about the law, it might be of more benefit to all of us. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Related!]] Undoubtedly connected, thank you, Congressman. What I would like to add to this whole matter is that most of my colleagues, especially those on the left, still have no idea what was in Hungary in 15 or what this migration crisis was about Hungary and Europe. To date, they do not understand what the country has escaped thanks to the technical border closure, lively protection and other legal and other measures. If they knew that, they would take a different approach to this issue and thank both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence and the police and soldiers working there for protecting your country and for protecting the part of the Schengen border that we have entrusted to us. Please acknowledge that and thank those who have done this for you. After all, Márta Demeter, who is not here now, but when he was sitting in his previous party or when he was sitting in his party, they said that this was not a question, this is a pseudo-problem that Viktor Orbán and Fidesz and the government have put forward in relation to migration. Believe me, to this day, I believe that he and his fellow left-wing Members see this as a false problem to this day, and this was just a communication move I am asking myself, because I myself live along the border, and as a representative of the region, in the southern part of Bács-Kiskun, we saw what was going on and what would have happened if we hadn't made our decisions. I would like to explain to you here what will happen if the law enters into force. First of all, the camps that opened temporarily, in closed or open form, be it Röszkén, be it Kiskunhalas, be it Körmenden, Szentgotthárd, Balassagyarmat or in other Hungarian cities or settlements, these camps must be eliminated. If these camps are evacuated, then the operation and maintenance of all the camps may become obsolete. So what I've wanted for a long time, and many people here in this House, these camps can cease, because the transit zones will be located along the border, in the border, no matter how much the demand, that is, the crowd that will be imposed on us will be placed there, and the procedure will take place there. The most important thing he has said is that many of my fellow Fidesz Members, and the Jobbiks, have understood that what has happened so far, that the incoming migrants have had the opportunity, and in most cases, 95-96 percent of the Muslims and non-Christians, and most of them, 85 percent of the male, live, aged 15-30s, are virtually missing, as they have been said here. We've seen them leave their camps 24 hours a day, but they never returned. In other words, they were able to get out, and there is now a problem in Hegyeshalom and its surroundings, because the Austrians have caught these temporarily staying with us and trying to escape to Austria or Germany. So believe me, this new legal gate closure will create both the camps and the asylum issues, if all is true, that they will find themselves at a resting point on the part of Hungary. Allow me to say one word here, though he is not here, but perhaps we will discuss it in private: that if Ákos Hadházy had known him, János Hunyadi would have drawn his sword at the mouth of the Sava and the Danube long ago and had him executed, who spoke in this way of defending the country, would have spoken, let us say, at the mouth of the Danube and Sava. In the century, that would not have been worth the victory of Nándorfehérvár. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP Group.
u2017-02-21-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We take it, we understand the criticism that we are not talking enough about the proposal itself, so let me make it very clear that the Secretary of State, who was rapporteur for the ministerial exposé, was able to talk about this proposal for five minutes and 30 seconds, and the Fidesz lead speaker did not even speak enough, since he spoke for 15 minutes, but at 13.5 minutes he began to say anything that would have affected the proposal. Let's just say he didn't confuse us by giving us details of the proposal. Soldiers and police have protected the borders, so I should thank them. That's right. And who's protecting them? Who's protecting him? Are there pick-up tents set up at minus 20 degrees? I was downstairs. I don't know if you were down there, I was down there. Are they standing in crabs at minus 20 degrees, on high-rises made up of trees cut out of these woods? Did you see how the colleagues in Austria solved this? How could they put a bloody container on the stock that could serve this heavy service under cooled, heated and human conditions? How is it that the 100 billion forints spent so far on the border lock cannot afford to be honoured by the boys and girls, ladies and gentlemen serving here in Hungary? I've been down several times. What is down there is not normal, my fellow Member, a disgrace to this country, but most of all a disgrace to this government. And why are you avoiding the subject? I also told you at the end of my speech, my other opposition fellow Members, this last time Attila Mesterházy asked me again - why are you avoiding the subject? [[14.10]] Today we are discussing Schengen, the security of Hungary's borders and the safety of Hungarian people, according to you. When will you be responsible for what's going on here? When do heads fall, fellow Members? How long will they sit - sorry to put it this way - like pumpkin when we talk about the fact that, by the way, the security of European and Hungarian people is being sold for money and pose a serious national security risk to this country? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] One sentence, thank you very much, Mr. President. The perpetrators of the terrorist attack in Paris were in Budapest for days in Hungary, by the way - before we could listen to the eulogy. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-74	Thank you, Mr Parliament. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, Fidesz Group.
u2017-02-21-75	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. At the moment, if my fellow Member went down, he would see the protection of our soldiers along the border, but I am telling you that these soldiers are not waiting at the border to sit in a tent all day long, as they are in the field in the border. They're on foot or by car near the technical barrier. So what kind of plow they've built for themselves or what kind of protective equipment they've built now, we've taken it ourselves, when the camps, the transit zone, have not yet been built, they've been given shelters from different days or shelters from the wind, but that's not the point. They're there to protect our borders. They are provided by the Hungarian Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. They have barracks, they may have school-built buildings, but they do. Not spoiled, but as military men, they know what to do, they are not prepared for a five-star care in this case. This is an extraordinary situation, it is not worthy of this, but they may have been in a similar situation when they were not - let's assume that when you were down there, there were unpleasant moments not during the frosts, but during the summer period, they were given the proper care of the Hungarian Army and the Hungarian police. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-21-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As my colleague Ádám Mirkóczki indicated, the Jobbik Group can support this proposal, even because there are proposals in it that we have already tabled, otherwise you voted against. We are pleased that a year or two has been late in realising that these proposals have been positive and that, indeed, positive changes will be made thanks to the adoption of this proposal, such as the possibility not only of catching refugees within the border, but also of escorting them to transit zones throughout the country, or of escorting them not to refugee camps, but to transit zones, where they will be able to submit their asylum applications and will be there until it is assessed. I would not like to repeat this part of Adam Mirkóczki's speech, but I would also like to ask questions to the Secretary of State as a local residence from the point of view of my constituency, Kiskunhalas. I trust that you will answer not only in your closing, but also earlier, because not only in me, but also in the voters of Kiskunhalas, there have been a number of questions. A few days ago, a local psychic brought out a report from this bill, and a number of people contacted me about the changes that this would bring to the open and closed refugee camp in Kiskunhalas. Before I ask my questions, it's just a very short historical reflection. I, as a representative of Jobbik, have indicated on numerous occasions the demand of thousands of people in Kiskunhalas and the area by speaking in favour of closing open and closed camps, knowing that jobs could be created in other ways, but these refugee camps do pose a security risk. By the way, my fellow Member Gábor Bányai was the first to sign the collection of signatures on this issue, and took over the thousands of signatures requiring closure, trusting that results will be achieved. I would very much like it to have real results, but at the same time we do not see any guarantees that could come from this bill. The reason why we do not see such guarantees is because there is a requirement in this bill that the government can designate a transit zone anywhere. What happens if, in the event of an increase in migrant flows, border transit zones are filled and new transit zones need to be designated? Is there any possibility that Kishunhalas reception stations will receive such transit zone status, so that again, if we assume now, they will be eliminated, then they will be filled again? I would ask the Secretary of State to give the Kiskunhalas a reassuring answer on this matter, that if we really succeed in achieving that this state of affairs, the fact that there are many migrants in Kiskunhalas, will cease to exist, this will not change again. This is an important issue, and it concerns the people of Kiskunhalas. What will happen at all if, thanks to the adoption of this law, Kiskunhalas has been removed from his open and closed camp to the present refugees in a border transit zone? In this case, what will be the fate of the refugee camp? My fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, said very optimisticly that he could disappear. Then I would like to ask the Secretary of State to confirm that this will indeed happen and that there will be no refugee camp in Kiskunhalas in the future. There will be further questions, whether in relation to border transit zones or, if, let us say, the situation later turns out that Kiskunhalas would be such a designated transit zone, are the asylum guards prepared to face a mass eruption. Unfortunately, there have been examples of this from Debrecen through Kiskunhalas, through Békéscsaba in several parts of the country. Are they properly prepared for this? As many questions come to me, and many people have the answer to public health problems, whether you are properly prepared for such cases. Overall, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary once again to respond to these points, to reassure the people of Kiskunhalas and to reassure us that these refugee camps will be closed. Also, if that were the case, the workplaces of those working there, even in the case of the establishment of a prison, which has already occurred several times in the life of the city, could be provided in this way. I believe that this would be a realistic scenario and that this asylum issue in Kiskunhalas could indeed be resolved in a reassuring way with the establishment of prison, the further employment of people and the strengthening of the sense of security of residents and neighborhoods. I need your answers on this one. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2017-02-21-79	Thank you very much. Mr Gábor Bányai's comment launched another comment. On the one hand, I wish to the Member that he would do his job under the same good conditions as the border guards and police colleagues downstairs. So I hope that you will be able to do your job as a representative in such good circumstances in the next period. [[Dr. Répássy Robert's intervention.]] In such luxurious circumstances as they work there. On the other hand, this is the genre of Parliament, Mr President, that, in the general debate on a subject, there can be a wide range of opinions, and we are not yet sitting at the Fidesz Assembly, so that you can tell us how and how opposition representatives should address it. [[Gábor Bányai: I didn't say that.]] And if your fellow Members are talking about the need to protect the Schengen area, then please, the protection of the Schengen area includes a lot of other things, such as the visa shopping I have mentioned, dealing with visas. Either today's index news, which I'm sure will have to respond to, or the Ministry will also have to respond to, which is that according to the Index report, Ukraine has fraudulent access to Hungarian passports, Hungarian citizenship, and this will be reported for a long time on how to obtain these passports. So in Hungarian, there is a gap in the shield not only in relation to the issue of visas, so to put it this fantastic legal border closure, but it seems that a passport and Hungarian citizenship can be obtained in Hungary in a fraudulent way. Last year I turned to the Ministry of the Interior in May and July with this question. Once, I think, I asked 15 questions on this matter, once at least six or eight other questions in July after your answer. Then, of course, they said that everything is fantastically fine, there is no such problem in Hungary, there is no way that Ukrainian criminals can reach Hungarian citizenship in a fraudulent way, if necessary, without having anything to do with Hungarian nationality, of course. So I would also like to point out to Mr Secretary of State that there is a visible problem not only with issuing visas, but also with facilitating establishment, because evil people and criminals abuse it, and it would be good for the House to be able to negotiate these, so that we can protect the Schengen area, so that criminals cannot abuse the freedom of movement within the Schengen area, and that this legal borderlock, I say once again, applies not only to refugees, but also to criminals. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2017-02-21-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. As my fellow Members have said, we are in favour of tightening up, but we must also say so, especially because some Members have been criticised for talking about the country's security in a broader sense. Such a question, when it comes to the security of the country, inevitably raises various questions related to the issue, which can be discussed calmly. [[14.20]] One such situation is that, for example, if we are talking about border surveillance, indeed the police and soldiers serving at the border are forced to perform their duties and under what circumstances. Gábor Bányai said that this is an extraordinary situation. This extraordinary situation is acceptable, let's say, for a month or two, to talk about the fact that it's an extraordinary situation, suddenly something needs to be resolved. But it's been two years now. This is no longer an extraordinary situation, since unfortunately it must be said that our border must be constantly protected against new attacks on migrants. There would have been plenty of time to improve the opportunity and the situation in which the border guards or the police have to perform the service. The other is the question of security, so that we do not distinguish - and I must agree with my fellow Members who have spoken about it - between people, say, their financial situation, who might pose a national security risk to our country, so that there should not be any difference between the poor migrant and the rich migrant, even if the rich migrant we call rich might be the same poor migrant and came from Syria as the one who, say, stands at the border and cannot cross, there is only so much difference that, let's say, that poor migrant in Syria has already been given enough money by ISIS to buy a settlement policy from you. Does that man have to be treated differently? The only difference is that they were able to provide him with enough money to buy a settlement policy from you, to give you business, and at that moment, this man doesn't pose such a national security risk, even though we're talking about the same person, but he doesn't have money on one side, and on the other, he has, say, nearly 400 thousand euros to start and do business with you. Or the same is how much greater a national security risk is at this moment a person waiting at the border who would like to enter the Schengen area, such as Ghaith Pharaon, who can meet with Viktor Orbán, whose visa application and everything else is being handled so that he can enter the territory of Hungary. And speaking of national security risks, how much greater a national security risk is a Syrian criminal waiting at the border than Russian criminals who can enter this country in connection with various tricks? They all pose a security risk in the same way. So what we have been trying to do so far - this is what our proposals have said, and this is also what we proposed in the amendment of the basic law, which you are unwilling to accept and understand - is not to distinguish between people according to how much money they have, but to those who pose a security risk, let us try to close the loopholes in front of them. Of course, there are questions here as to why you are unwilling to do so. There have been serious issues in recent years, even with the Prime Minister of Hungary or even with your boss, Mr. Secretary of State. And they don't give me answers. For example, I am interested, and I think that in this country it should be answered that if a serious accusation is made about the Prime Minister of Hungary that he has received one million euros from criminals in order for the Russian Mafia to operate in peace here, or an accusation about your boss is made that he has received ten thousand marks a month - because he was still a German brand - in order for Russian criminals to operate here, this must be answered. I hope that's not true. [[Károly Kontra: It's not true!]] But then we have to answer that question, and these questions should be clarified if there are no video footage, according to the news, that would prove the opposite, because it is only worth not talking about it if there is evidence. So what I'm saying is that this is all a security risk that should be closed. You're telling me that you're coming here, like the Kiss Szilárd visa issue. It comes here that Szilárd Kiss did what Antal Rogán did now in small size, and what you legitimized, because there was only one business going on here with the visa. Secretary of State, it may be unpleasant for you to listen to this, but you know that you are in a position at the moment, and you have been in a position for many years where you know exactly the same thing - and I know that you are fully prepared professionally, and you understand the situation precisely - as I am, that those who purchase settlement bonds are also a security risk to this country. You know it as well as I do. And you also know that letting people in here for money, who are not normally screened, and who might commit acts in Hungary that then place enormous burdens on the Ministry of the Interior - you know that, and so do I. The problem is that I speak up on the contrary, and you remain silent because, let's say, Antal Rogán has more power than you do in this government. Believe me, there is only one thing we want: in this country, any loophole where people with security risks can enter the country and do anything to harm Hungary and to harm the Hungarian people. Whatever measures you have already taken to protect the country has been supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We'll continue to support you. We just want us to be more effective and close all kinds of loopholes from people who come into this country with no intention of being allowed. We want to guarantee the security of Hungary and the protection of Hungary. In our opinion, we need to address very, very many issues, and we need answers to a lot of questions that are hanging over the heads of the government or the Hungarian Prime Minister, which people would expect to hear and not to listen. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-82	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Répássy, Member of the Fidesz Group, submitted a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-83	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr Mesterházy's speech made a contribution because he instructed my fellow Member Gábor Bányai to do his work in the same circumstances as the soldiers and police on the border. Dear House, Of course, it doesn't matter for the merit of the matter, but I have received a news report from March 2013, according to which MEPs Attila Mesterházy and Zsolt Molnár spent their day in a wellness centre in Budapest instead of the meeting of the Parliament. I'm sure they want something equally comfortable for the soldiers in general, but not everyone is as impertinent as the president of the MSZP at the time. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-84	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: You must be State Secretary again!]]
u2017-02-21-85	Yes, I was going to say that I understand, Mr Répássy, the sadness that you are no longer Secretary of State, and that you must serve your trust in order to achieve a position. I think it is worth sticking to the subject, and it is the subject that we have talked about, why you are giving asylum to criminals and why you are giving political cover to people who abuse this opportunity; this should be the issue. You have the opportunity to ask Minister Sándor Fazekas at factions meetings why he will cover Szilárd Kiss for years. I think it's a more exciting question than where I spend my free time, but next time we'll invite you, I'll be happy to pay you the pass. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-21-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-02-21-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the members of my pro-government colleagues, the Fidesz-KDNP faction, in which they supported the bill before this House. [[Dr. István Apáti: Won't you thank us?]] the purpose of which is to improve, increase, and improve the safety of Hungarian people, Hungary, and to promote the safety of the citizens of the European Union. This is a clear goal for which we have presented this bill, and I thank both the lead speakers and Szilárd Németh, Mátyás Firtl and the speakers of the government, Imre Vas, Richárd Hörcsik, Gábor Bányai for their support. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Why Only For Him?]] I am pleased that they consider this issue to be an important issue, the solution of which will help the safety of Hungary, the Hungarian people. [[14.30]] It must be said clearly, and I explained this in my expo, and I began by saying that today it is clear that no one is questioning it, my fellow Members, that there is a link between migration and terrorism. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We also said that first!]] The latest information, which was made at the last meeting of the National Security Committee, was informed by the services of the committee members, who were there, that the territory of the terrorist threat was being transferred from the territory of the Francofon countries. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: We did not dispute it!]] In Central and Eastern Europe, too. That's something you have to defend yourself against. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We have said this for a long time!]] From the outset, since the outbreak of the migration crisis, the Government of Hungary has clearly stated that the most important task is to protect borders, to comply with the Schengen rules, we say that hotspots must be established outside the borders of the European Union, and we also say that economic migrants, economic migrants and real refugees should be separated there, outside the borders of the European Union. Dear Parliament, We trust that this bill will help reduce the threat of terrorism, that prevention will be effective, because I believe that this is the most important, that is the duty of the government, of the services, of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, of the police. We are working to prevent this threat and to keep Hungary, the Hungarian people safe. I am very sorry that many opposition representatives have cynically formulated the issue of security, and what if Hungary is the safest country in the European Union. My fellow Members, this is a value. This is an important value, which is valuable primarily for the people living here, but also for the whole of Europe, because Hungary's authority has grown in recent times in the European Union and throughout the world. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Not too little!]] The Hungarian position on migration and the Hungarian activity contributed greatly to this. We have not only talked about it, ladies and gentlemen, but we have also in reality defended the EU's borders, the Schengen external border. [[Adam Mirkóczki: When?]] We protected EU citizens, protected Hungarian people, protected Hungary's safety. They remember at the beginning of September 2015 - 3rd and 4th, if I remember correctly - the days when Parliament passed the laws, we amended more than 13 laws, and they were partly two-thirds and partly half laws. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: We voted for it!]] Thanks to these, we have created the triple protection, the legal barrier, legal protection, lively protection and physical protection, the fence. I would also like to say that this triple protection must be maintained gradually and continuously. Several of my opposition fellow Members have been critical, for example, of the supply of staff and the technical and other conditions under which they can perform the task, which I would like to thank before this House anyway. I would like to say that we have built a manoeuvring road over the past period, that we have equipped the fence with technical tools that I do not want to list now, but which promote more effective border protection. The conditions for the construction of the second fence have been prepared. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Talk about the file!]] So, if necessary, we'll build this so that we can do it better... we've improved it, we've constantly improved it. Thank you very much for the call from my fellow opposition Member. We are continuously and gradually improving the supply of personnel both for clothing and for other forms of supply. We will continue to do so in the future. We constantly monitor and improve this care, which is very necessary, as this is what makes it possible for the Hungarian people, Hungary, to be safe. As to the statement made by Mr Tamás Harangozó, the accusation that we allowed migrants to leave for Western Europe, I would like to say that this was due to compliance with EU border rules. The rules provided for by the Union had to be applied at the time. From January 2013, we had to put an end to the detention of aliens, which is why the situation may have been that migrants leave an open camp and that is why the procedures have been terminated. But it will be a new situation now, because if this bill is passed by Parliament, then we will have to wait in the transit zone for the procedure, for the examination of the application, and only real refugees can be protected, as has been the case so far. Last year, 2016, if I remember correctly, five hundred-some refugees received international protection in Hungary. Those who need it will still receive it in the future; those who do not will wait in the transit zone until the request is evaluated and then leave the transit zone. By the way, I would like to answer Mr Bellozó's question of what will happen to those who do not leave him, that they will be detained by foreign police and, for example, expelled. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: But they are not in the country!]] So this is the [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shall we bring them in and take them out?]] situation. We hope that this will not happen very much, as the transit zone is open to Serbia and can leave the transit zone. As far as the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians is concerned, I would like to say that a significant part of them are Hungarian citizens, and we apply the rules on Hungarian citizens. Besides, we are doing everything we can to protect the Transcarpathian Hungarians. We are confident that the situation will stabilise in Ukraine and that the situation that the Member has painted in this regard will not take place. As regards your statement on the Prime Minister of Hungary, I reject this and ask my fellow Member, since this statement is entirely unfounded, to apologise to the Prime Minister. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Which is unfounded?]] Congressman, don't you remember what you said? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I remember!]] Congressman, good morning. As to Adam Mirkóczki's comment as the lead speaker of Jobbik, I would like to say that I am sorry that he said that terrorism was a misconception. Congressman, we are not talking about terrorism and terrorist threats, but we are giving correct information in this regard and we are telling you what dangers we are facing if we do not do everything we can to protect Hungary and the Hungarian people. In this regard, this finding is certainly unfounded. As far as the location of transit zones is concerned, the bill provides for the possibility of being designated elsewhere. It's an opportunity. Preparatory work is currently under way, the current transit zone is on the agenda as needed, and this is what our staff are working on. We are confident that enlargement will be enough to meet these conditions. As regards the comments made by Mr Ákos Hadházy, who is not present, it is completely unfounded that we use the misery of people for political gain. I absolutely reject this because the measures taken in Hungary during the migration crisis do not support this at all. Our aim is to protect the country, to protect the Hungarian people, to protect the Union, and these rules are increasingly being taken over by more and more countries, and more and more people are following this example. [[14.40]] As far as the migration situation is concerned, I said a recent number, and I started the expo by saying that on Friday last week only 235 people tried to come to Hungary, so the danger did not go away, the danger still exists, and it is precisely our responsibility to do everything we can to ensure that this danger is removed. By the way, I would like to say that these measures apply in the event of a crisis, not in principle, if the crisis resolves, the normal rules will enter into force, these are exceptional responses to an exceptional situation. And other EU countries also defend against illegal migration, which do not have an external border, for example Austria or Germany have introduced permanent internal border controls, which are constantly being extended, and Austrian internal border control affects a large number of Hungarians. We say that the external borders must be protected, and then there is no need for this internal border control. We are confident that these internal border controls will cease in neighbouring countries if the bill to be negotiated is adopted and if it enters into force in practice. Dear Parliament, The issue of Kiskunhalas was also raised in today's debate. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, for inviting me, and I was able to find out about the situation in Halas on the spot at Kiskunhalas. I would like to thank you for your cooperation, and indeed, the Halasians have been thanked for providing space - otherwise, they have been awarded both open and closed reception facilities. Otherwise, if the situation turns out - to answer the question of the better Member - that this law enters into force, works, and only those who receive protection and are able to permanently withdraw from their current place of residence, the persons who are in an open or closed host, it is obvious that this is a new situation. I would like nothing more to say now, but our ambition is and we are aware of the reception of migrants in the settlements where they are, by the way. We are in regular contact with the municipalities and monitor the safety of the inhabitants of the settlements, so that we can guarantee their safety. Members of the MSZP, as well as Jobbikók, and Ákos Hadházy of the LMP, have brought the issue of the settlement policy, which is not the subject of this bill, but I would like to tell you an important question [[Tibor Bana intervenes.]] and here again - we have said in several places - that the holders of the settlement policy have passed through a filter number four, so filter number four, and the security check has actually filtered out many of those applications. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] which could have been a threat to Hungary or to Hungarian security, these requests were rejected by the competent authorities, so they did not receive a settlement policy. (Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.) So I would like to underline that this has happened. Even Congressman Attila Mesterházy's question that the legal banner should cover criminals and courtesans - he literally said that, I quote. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] - it is obvious that the Hungarian authorities are taking action against all criminals, if they have already mentioned criminals here, they are taking decisive action against criminals in all areas of Hungary, all the municipalities of Hungary, and by the way, the person whose activities have been carried out by the National Security Committee and his activities on visa matters have been communicated to the members of the National Security Committee in a closed session, I would like to say, as has been said, that there is an investigation on this issue, you have also heard it, because he was present at that National Security Committee meeting. I wanted to say this to illustrate the attitude of the Hungarian authorities. Dear Parliament, I trust that today's debate has also helped to highlight the important issue of the possibility of protecting Hungary and the Hungarian people, and the threat to Hungarian people will be reduced if these rules are adopted. We are confident that this bill will be adopted by Parliament after the discussion, and I would like to ask my fellow Members, and thank you very much for the contributions, some of which have, by the way, strayed significantly from the subject and purpose of the bill, but we trust that the original objectives will be met, and I would ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-88	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union until closure. Government referral T/13474. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-21-89	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. The relations between the Republic of Tunisia and the European Union are governed by the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement signed on 17 July 1995. The purpose of this bill is to publish the Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing a cultural association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union. On the Hungarian side, the agreement and the Protocol on EU enlargement in 2004 were published with a law adopted by the Parliament in 2011. Pursuant to the Act of Accession, the accession of the new Member States to the Agreement is approved by the adoption of the Protocol to the Agreement. Under the Protocol, Member States which joined the European Union in 2007, Romania and Bulgaria became Contracting Parties to the Agreement. Honourable Members, The European Union is the largest trading partner in Tunisia, with 60% of Tunisia's external trade flows taking place with the European Union, with 70 percent of foreign investment coming from the European Union - from the point of view of Tunisia. EU support to Tunisia between 2011 and 2016 amounted to EUR 2 billion. As a result of the terrorist attack in June 2015 and due to economic difficulties, it was justified for Tunisia to introduce emergency autonomous trade measures, for example, the European Union will allow Tunisian companies to have direct access to the Union market and Tunisia will be able to gradually open up its own markets to European Union companies. The strategic interest of the EU is to support the creation of a strong, democratic and stable Tunisia, and the Union has been supporting the democratic transformation of the country with political, financial and technical assistance since the Tunisian revolution in 2011. In view of the significant progress made, in 2014, the Union and Tunisia agreed to continue to develop and deepen the priority partnership. The legal basis for the bilateral relationship remains the Association Agreement in force since 1998. The priority partnership, supported by the European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan for 2013-2017, aims to strengthen political cooperation and economic integration. In addition, the Parties shall cooperate in the negotiation of measures to strengthen the fight against terrorism. Dear Parliament, With regard to Hungarian-Tunisian relations, it is outstanding that the Tunisian government prioritises bilateral economic relations and considers Hungarian economic policy and economic diplomacy to be a model. [[14.50]] Hungary is considered an important partner of Tunisia in Central and Eastern Europe. The Tunisian leadership appreciated the fact that Hungary was among the first to express its sympathy following the terrorist attacks in 2015. Tunisia also appreciates the fact that our country has not tightened its country-specific travel advice. Tunisia was Hungary's 60th trading partner in 2015. The bilateral work plan for cultural, scientific and higher education cooperation was signed by Tunisia and Hungary at the end of 2013, which provides a scholarship for Tunisia. Hungary has raised the annual grant for 100 people from the 2017-18 academic year to 150 people. A total of 186 Tunisian students have been participating in this programme since September 2016. The offer of our country is in line with what was said at the EU-Tunisia Association Council on 1 December 2016, according to which the EU is paying great attention to providing a study opportunity for 1,500 Tunisian students in the Erasmus programme at universities in the Member States of the European Union. Dear Parliament, Tunisian border authorities are facing border management difficulties similar to those of Hungary due to conflicts in Libya and migratory pressure from sub-Saharan African states. Hungary's relations with the Schengen external border guards, especially in the light of the ongoing migratory pressure, can be extremely valuable to Tunisian law enforcement and border surveillance bodies. The International Migration Policy Development Centre, the Regional International Organisation for Migration and Border Surveillance System Development, is responsible for the implementation of the pilot project under the European Union's Southern Partnership Policy in Tunisia. Hungary has been a member of the organization since 1995. The pilot project will run from 1 December 2015 to 31 July 2019, which will be co-financed by the European Union and the Swiss Confederation. The aim of the project is to improve the operativity and effectiveness of Tunisian law enforcement bodies through multi-annual training and training to meet current border and migration challenges. Hungary is also involved in the implementation of the pilot project with consultation powers. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I urge you to support the bill in order to further strengthen EU-Tunisian and Hungarian-Tunisian relations. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Tunisia is probably one of the most stable states in the North African region today, which has achieved exemplary results since the 2011 revolution, the Arab Spring, and I would say that it is only one of the North African countries. In view of this, as Mr State Secretary mentioned in his expo, the European Union decided in 2014 to establish a partnership with Tunisia, which was primarily political, to develop political cooperation, but also to strengthen economic integration. This was confirmed by the European Neighbourhood Policy Plan for the period 2013-17. Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to discuss the latter several times and then to discuss it at both the Euromed plenary and the political committee's meetings over recent years. I believe that these efforts have been successful both to the European Union and to Tunisia. Cooperation is successful, since almost two thirds of Tunisia's foreign trade trade turnover - as we have heard from the Secretary of State - is the exchange of goods with EU Member States, the volume of which reached EUR 20 billion in 2015. I would like to mention here that we also find these systems in order with regard to Hungary, because the Hungarian-Tunisian Joint Economic Committee is functioning effectively, and it has been decided to open a new commercial representation to further stimulate bilateral economic relations. This is a good sign that not only political but also economic cooperation between Tunisia and Hungary is going well. And I think it is very important to mention it as a university professor - as Mr. State Secretary said in his expozee - the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, since the number of students in Tunisia has exceeded 100 in previous years. Recently, we have increased this number by one and a half times, and we have extended it to doctoral training. Investing in the education of young people in Tunisia, I believe, is also an investment in the country's future. I would like to mention that we also have strong historical ties, because 1956 is not only an important year for us, it is also the date of Tunisian independence. That's when we established diplomatic relations with Tunisia. Tunisia is also a wonderful tourist destination. According to the reports of the Hungarians travelling there, the security situation meets their expectations, and many Hungarian tourists visit Tunisia once again. Hungary has not deteriorated the country's security classification in recent years, thus supporting the tourism sector. Ladies and gentlemen, It is in Hungary's fundamental interest to maintain the political and economic stability of Tunisia. If this were to be a serious threat, the immigration pressure on Europe would certainly continue to increase, and therefore Hungary and Europe have a fundamental interest in closer political and economic cooperation. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Since the Tunisian revolution in 2011, the European Union has supported Tunisia's democratic transformation with political, financial and technical assistance. In view of the significant progress made in the democratic transition, in 2014, the Union and Tunisia agreed to establish a privileged partnership. A good basis for bilateral relations remains the agreement in force since 1998. The priority partnership, supported by the European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan for the period 2013-17, aims to strengthen and deepen political cooperation and economic integration. Tunisia will also benefit from the framework of the European Neighbourhood Instrument. In March 2014, Tunisia and the European Union launched a Mobility Partnership. Trade with the Member States of the European Union accounts for 63 percent of the country's foreign trade turnover, with a total value of EUR 20 billion in 2015. Close cooperation has also developed with the country in the fight against terrorism. Tunisia is a positive player in the region, which views Europe with openness and cooperation. The EU therefore continues to regard Tunisia as a strategic partner. The Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the first month following the date of deposit of the last instrument of approval. On behalf of the European Union and the Member States, this Protocol was approved by the Council of the European Union on 9 February 2015. In view of the fact that the ratification has not yet been made by Tunisia, although the date of entry into force of the Protocol cannot yet be determined, this is nevertheless a forward-looking and necessary step, which is why the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is practically formal, due to the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union in 2007. Moreover, the Protocol was amended in 2006 before that, which was due, inter alia, to Hungary's accession to the EU. The Euro-Mediterranean agreement entered into force with Tunisia in 1998 and since then the EU has concluded a similar agreement with six other countries in the region. [[15.00]] These aim to gradually establish a free trade zone and to strengthen other forms of cooperation. Since the Tunisian revolution in 2011, the Union has been paying even more attention to the country, supporting it with financial, political and technical assistance. However, it is important to point out that Tunisia has a huge responsibility during the current migrant crisis. It is one of the largest in the region, let us call it the issuing country, and the state is apparently not making sufficient efforts to prevent thousands of immigrants from moving across the sea to Europe. Last week, for example, the Tunisian Prime Minister himself said that they do not support the establishment of migrant camps in their country to accommodate migrants who have been rescued from the sea. At this point, therefore, I would like to nuance the picture that was drawn here during the previous speeches. I think that, given the European Union's strong support for Tunisia, there would be a greater willingness to cooperate on immigration. I believe, Mr Secretary of State, that this is an important aspect of the bill before us. We also need to pay attention to this when we show up on the European Union scene and the government develops its position. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Nevertheless, of course, the proposal itself, as I have already pointed out, can be supported by the Jobbik Group, so we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2017-02-21-96	Welcome, good afternoon. We'll get back to work. We have reached the end of the speech, so that an independent Member can speak, but since he is not in the Chamber, this opportunity cannot be used by anyone. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. Members' speeches may follow. [[There's no candidate.]] Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a speech, the general debate is closed and I am trying to continue the whole day at this rate. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] For understandable reasons, the rapporteur does not wish to reply, since he has not given rise to a debate. It is therefore possible to submit the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday, I would like to inform you. We will continue our work with the general debate on the bill for the publication of a Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, until closure. Government referral T/13919. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csepreghy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-97	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to recognise and publish the mandatory scope of the strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other. Canada is one of the EU's ten strategic partners and is also the 12th most important trading partner in the European Community. The aim of the agreement is to strengthen bilateral cooperation in a number of foreign policy and sectoral areas, such as international peace and security, the fight against terrorism, crisis management, maritime security, energy, transport, research and development, health, environment, climate change, but also concerns important areas such as science and technological developments. The further objective of the Agreement is to enhance forms of cooperation that have a direct impact on individual Member States and citizens, such as education and cultural programmes for young people and consular protection. Dear House, In advance of the expected criticisms of opposition representatives, I would like to say that the comprehensive economic and trade agreement that we have come to know as CETA is a parallel agreement between the European Union and Canada, but independent of the strategic agreement. So we are talking about two completely different documents at the moment. This is important information from the point of view of the preliminary debate or attitude towards it. The former regulates the general principles, areas and modalities of political and economic cooperation between the Parties, and the latter includes specific conditions and rules for bilateral trade relations. The two agreements are an independent, independent international treaty. The relationship between them consists only in the non-proliferation of human rights or weapons of mass destruction within the meaning of Article 28 (7) of the Strategic Partnership Agreement... - particularly serious and substantial infringements may also give rise to the dissolution of CETA. That's the connection between the two documents. Minister Lázár confirmed in the Government Info on 16 February 2017 that a thorough government and Parliamentary consultation had taken place before CETA was signed, and the Government is convinced that if we add conditions and suspensions and restrictions to this Convention or its adoption, this is an agreement compatible with the interests of Hungary. This concerns a number of things, both legal issues and, of course, the government's view, trade issues. Hungary, in cooperation with several other Member States, such as Germany, has succeeded in providing us with reassuring guarantees in the area of agricultural issues and GMO-freeness in the final text of CETA. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Canada is also of particular importance for Hungary in terms of national policy, security policy and economic policy. On the basis of data from the 2011 census 316 765 Canadians claim to be of Hungarian origin, contact with them is a clear priority for a national government. Our aim is also to strengthen the federal relationship between the NATO founding member and Canada on the basis of the common value and interest system in the threefold relationship system of Hungary-EU-Canada. Canada was Hungary's 44th most important trading partner in the first 11 months of 2016, and Hungarian processed poultry exports have achieved significant results in Canada over the last ten years, and Hungary was the third largest exporter on the Canadian market in 2015. Dear Parliament, I would like to conclude by saying that the establishment of this agreement is in line with the government's efforts to support Hungary, as a member of the European Union, to strengthen and deepen cooperation with third countries, thereby developing bilateral relations. In this context, I call on the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Mr President, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-21-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament's agenda often includes legislative proposals declaring international treaties and subsequently recognising their binding effect. With regard to Canada, it is true that most people are reminded of CETA, in line with the overall economic and trade agreement concluded between the EU and Canada, in accordance with the English abbreviation. This is natural, because this economic agreement has triggered countless debates in Europe, as in the Hungarian Parliament. After all, last October we adopted a decision on the position on the signature of CETA. I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for saying, in advance of unnecessary debates, that yes, the strategic partnership agreement is not the same as CETA. So we're talking about two separate things, although a lot of people are confusing it. After all, the signing of the Strategic Partnership Agreement, like the CETA, on 30 October 2016 in Brussels, on the 16th. It took place at the EU-Canada Summit. This agreement will replace the Joint Political Declaration on EU-Canada Relations (hereinafter referred to as the "Consultation'). Taking into account the close historical ties between the Contracting Parties and the progressively evolving - or I could also say deepening - relations and their intention to deepen their relations in an ambitious and innovative way, negotiations on a strategic agreement between the EU and Canada have already started in 2011 and, if I recall correctly, were concluded in May 2014. [[15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Strategic Partnership Agreement is therefore a framework agreement which strengthens political relations and cooperation between the Contracting Parties on the one hand and, on the other hand, raises relations to a higher level in a number of areas than trade, as we would say. I believe that the agreement provides an appropriate basis and framework for bilateral and multilateral cooperation between the EU and Canada, as it covers a wide spectrum of areas. It concerns important issues such as human rights, international peace and security, the fight against terrorism is very, very important. In these areas, cooperation between States and cooperation between the EU and the region outside the EU is essential. The agreement also addresses issues relating to everyday life, such as culture, education or youth. So the agreement also covers issues that determine our future, especially sustainable development, science, research and innovation. Ladies and gentlemen, The importance of the agreement in transatlantic relations is also indicated by the fact that just last week, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke in person in the European Parliament during the debate on the two treaties with Canada. In conjunction with this, I would also like to note that a few days ago, on 15 February 2017, the plenary session of the European Parliament adopted by a large majority its resolution on the conclusion of the CETA and the Strategic Partnership Agreement. With the decisions of the European Parliament, certain provisions of the two agreements will be provisionally applied. Pending the entry into force of the Agreement, in accordance with Article 30 thereof and subject to the notification provided for therein, certain parts of the Agreement shall be applied provisionally between the Union and Canada, but only in so far as they concern matters falling within Union competence, including matters falling within the Union's competence to develop and implement the common foreign and security policy. Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement also sets out mechanisms for political dialogue and consultation, such as the Joint Ministerial Committee, co-chaired by Canada's Foreign Minister and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Since the Strategic Partnership Agreement is a mixed treaty, i.e. it includes issues falling within the competence of the Member States, national parliaments must also ratify it, which is why this document is now presented to this House. From the point of view of Hungary, I believe that, in addition to opening up to the east, it is essential to strengthen our relations towards areas outside Europe, particularly with regard to an important ally like Canada. Of course, this country plays an extremely important role in our transatlantic relations, our bilateral relations are balanced, and I believe that this is why the time has come to raise our relations to a higher level. Ladies and gentlemen, Furthermore, as Mr Secretary of State has said, we must not forget that Canada has given political asylum to some 40,000 Hungarian compatriots after the 1956 revolution. We note with great respect that in July 2010, the Canadian Government declared Hungarian migration in 1956 as part of its national historical heritage, and currently there are some 315 thousand Hungarian compatriots living in Canada. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that our relations with Canada will be brought to an even higher level once the agreement is in place. The Strategic Partnership Agreement provides an appropriate framework for dialogue and multifaceted cooperation between the EU and Canada, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to adopt the bill for the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-02-21-100	Thank you too, Congressman. Mr Attila Mesterházy, lead speaker for the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the agreement is to strengthen bilateral cooperation in a number of foreign policy and sectoral areas. These include international peace and security, the fight against terrorism, crisis management, maritime security, global governance, energy, transport, research and development, health, environmental protection and climate change, but also concern important areas such as science and technology. The further objective of the agreement is to enhance forms of cooperation that have a direct impact on individual citizens, such as education and cultural programmes for young people and consular protection. The negotiations on the Agreement started in 2011 and the parties reached an agreement at the end of May 2014. On 8 September 2014, the Canadian Foreign Minister and Ashton, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy, announced the initialling of the agreement in Ottawa, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016. In our view, the establishment of this agreement is in line with the aim of supporting and developing cooperation with third countries as a member of the European Union and thereby developing bilateral relations. In addition, this agreement has a significant political result, or perhaps an appreciated political result, since today there is a kind of shut-in in the world, a kind of isolacionism. Since the election of the President of the United States of America, there have been many signs of this. So the opening up of the shut-in versus the opening of the door is a serious dilemma not only in bilateral relations, but also in the international arena, and indeed in this, as my fellow Member Hörcsik said, the Canadian Prime Minister is much more concerned with the flag of opening, diversity and multiculturalism. One of Canada's fundamental values or fundamental values is this type of multiculturalism and the kind of openness to the world that characterizes the policy of the multitude of current and former prime ministers on the part of Canada. In our view, in today's world, not only does such a strategic agreement have concrete benefits, but it also has political significance in today's global political scene, so that it can send a signal to populists that lock-in is always harmful, and opening up is, of course, in the interests of the nations, if it is done with reason. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party Group supports this agreement. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tibor Bana, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2017-02-21-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The present Convention, the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada on the other, is the traditional Strategic Partnership Agreement between States, and the European Union already has a number of similar ones. If we were to stick strictly to the text of this convention, I would just have to say a few diplomatic sentences and stress that the Jobbik Group can, of course, support this publication, but after Mr Secretary of State has already opened up the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement, and I would also like to highlight important contradictions in this regard from the head speaker of Fidesz, Richárd Hörcsik. Last week there was a vote in the European Parliament on the EU-Canada Free Trade Convention, a comprehensive economic and trade agreement. Once again, there has been a strange coalition, as Fidesz MEPs voted together with MEPs from MSZP, DK and the Joint EP in the context of a convention that fully sends our national self-determination. If we look at the agreement that lies in front of us, then it must be said that the free trade agreement with Canada is being attacked by its opponents at points that are at the heart of the convention that we are discussing. [[15.20]] For example, the fight against poverty, some analyses show that CETA could lead to the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs in Europe, which could lead to family slippage and poverty. But not only from this point of view, Jobbik - and not only Jobbik, but also countless NGOs, including the Green Reply Organisation in Hungary - criticizes this free trade agreement, but we also drew attention to the fact that the comprehensive economic and trade agreement reduces European consumer protection and environmental standards, since it is enough to remind you that Canada has started extracting so-called oil sands over the past few years, which is an extremely polluting process. So by supporting CETA here in Parliament and voting in the European Parliament on the part of the government, on the part of Fidesz and KDNP, their representatives have contributed to this step towards environmental degradation. But from a labour law point of view, from the side of abandoning GMOs and other aspects, we have repeatedly voiced our criticisms not only here but also in the international arena, we have been the ones who have consistently gone through this, both here and in the European Parliament. On your side, a double speech has been typical for a long time, but now it is clear - although, of course, Parliament's ratification will take place at the end of the process, as has been said by the lead speaker of Fidesz - that if it is still under your governance, it is clear that you want to support it. We hope that this will no longer be the case, and in 2018, the establishment of the Jobbik government will also have an attitude towards a free trade agreement with Canada, with full regard to our national self-determination. Of course, back to what I said at the beginning, this does not mean that this Convention is not eligible, but it raises the idea, and this is the contradiction that I have tried to speak about, which I have tried to show you how sincere the noble ideas, goals and principles set out in this agreement are when the parties to another treaty take action in the opposite direction. I think that we should also talk about this, and it was important that I express this contradiction here in Parliament on behalf of the Jobbik Group, but, as I said, we will be able to support the strategic partnership agreement currently before us in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-104	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now, as an independent Member is not in the room, a two-minute speech follows: Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-105	Thank you very much, only the sentences of my fellow Member Bana inspired me to make an observation. I am pleased that they are also in favour of this agreement, but I have one question: why, when President Putin is in Hungary, they are not so afraid of giving up Hungarian sovereignty. So when there are questions about Russia, suddenly the Jobbik faction is not afraid to give up sovereignty, that when it comes to a gas contract, it is not afraid of it if we do something with Canada or do something with the European Union, and they are always worried about giving up Hungarian sovereignty. However, we know that, for example, the financing of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant seems to be financed in a significant part - for the time being, in its entirety - from a Russian state loan. And now we see that not only soldiers can occupy a country, but also money or debt. So I would be happy if this concern, this criticism, could be expressed by the Jobbik faction when it comes to Russia in other such negotiations. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-106	Congressman Bana, two minutes!
u2017-02-21-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to the words of my fellow Member, Mr Attila Mesterházy, in MSZP. In any case, Jobbik will keep our national self-determination and sovereignty in mind, whether we are speaking here in Parliament, in the European Parliament or in another international arena, or there will be a vote. And, of course, when it comes to relations with Russia, that's what we do. However, I would like to remind my fellow Member that our position on the matter of Paks in public was clear, so we voted in Parliament, and we also voiced serious criticisms on this matter. But what we need to see is that if Hungary wants to move forward in international politics, and we want to pursue our geopolitical and geostrategic interests to the greatest extent possible, we must strive for the best possible, balanced relationship with Germany, Russia and Turkey. And here we could go into a number of technical details, even in terms of energy policy. I would therefore like to underline once again that this is what we always consider when we establish our position on a particular matter. And yes, as I reminded you, in the case of Paks, I would not be able to list, in terms of the public, how many times we have said here in Parliament that we also have serious criticisms of this, but I think that in Central Europe we should consider the federal system with which we are trying to join, and one-sided, Western European or rather, Euro-Atlantic dependence has been detrimental to Hungary over the last 27 years. We can therefore see this question more nuancedly, but regardless, it is possible to see that in all cases on the international stage we have always held in mind that we should argue and act in favour of Hungary's sovereignty, and that we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-108	Congressman Zsolt Legány, as a normal speaker, please.
u2017-02-21-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to create a debate with my fellow Member, Bana, in the past, when I was in the Committee on European Affairs, this has come up once in a while. Let's just say I was quite surprised to hear you say that our Euroatlantic dependence, which I do not think was dependent, was harmful to Hungary. At least for me, it was question mark or opinionary. But, of course, that is not what I would like to deal with; rather, what you said, Mr Bana, was that he was paraphrasing it as if this particular agreement, which is now in front of this House, was the hallway of CETA. This is not how we see it, this is not how we see the content of this agreement; we believe that this agreement provides a general, a framework character. And in CETA, there are, indeed, very important provisions, which do not contain small details, in which we believe that there is still a need to change, and that would make it possible to adopt a good CETA. This, which lies before us now, is a framework agreement, and, as our lead speaker, Mr Mesterházy, my fellow Member, the MSZP will support this draft agreement before us. I would like to highlight, without pointing out very large world political processes, but in view of a US that is currently shutting down, what we are seeing now, or that introverting is more typical for the United States of America, then such an agreement that we intend to conclude with Canada on behalf of the European Union and the Member States of the European Union involves a message of openness or openness. And I think it's welcome, by the way. If the European Union and its Member States were rejecting it, when the British who are about to leave would not be rejecting it and they would enter into a separate agreement with the Canadians, then we could navigate ourselves to the situation of showing that the EU is unable to handle something. I am pro-European Union, and I have said this many times, which is why I think that if this strengthens our position, our position, we should support this draft agreement. Therefore, as I said, the Hungarian Socialist Party Group will support the bill. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2017-02-21-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, two minutes!
u2017-02-21-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wouldn't have said anything, but Wolfhouse... [[Tibor Bana: Mesterházy! But it's insanity.]] - I'm sorry, Congressman Mesterházy's speech encouraged me to do so. I felt a little bit - and I apologize again, it was a coincidence - when yesterday the Prime Minister here in Parliament, who has led the most corrupt government in the last 27 years, said that one of their greatest tasks would be to keep corrupt Jobbik politicians out of power. And now I feel the same way, that you're saying that Jobbik shouldn't play our national sovereignty for the Russians, and that we shouldn't jeopardize it. Congressman, there was a system in this country at the time, unfortunately for several decades, that eluded the Russians - then called the Soviet Union - the sovereignty of this country when we had to live in dictatorship, and, if I am well aware, it is still not disproved to this day that you are the party that made this possible, and your successors are declared. [[15.30]] From now on, this was as strange from your mouth as it was from the mouth of Viktor Orbán yesterday, when he accuses us of corruption, when, once again, Viktor Orbán leads the most corrupt government in the last 27 years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-112	Thank you very much. That way, we can better remember the names of our fellow Members, because it is now time for Congressman Mesterházy.
u2017-02-21-113	I thought I should tell you that my name can be memorized by my better fellow Member, and perhaps, as Mr President said, the more he says, the easier it will be to remember, so I write with Masterházy, an Ipsilon, and two, t, one, l, the Attila. That is not what I was questioning, my honourable fellow Member, and I was simply saying that it must be measured on an equal footing. In the geopolitical system, it is absolutely right and normal for Hungary to try to determine its own situation by taking into account the countries that surround it, which states have an impact on its activities. Russia will not be towed away from Hungary, so it will definitely affect Hungary. I merely said that I would take it out of your words in general, listening to their speeches in Parliament and others, that they would be more lenient with the question of sovereignty and dependence when it comes to Russia. That's my impression in person. Congressman Bana explained that he did not think so, and I listened with interest. However, that is not true, and that is why I wanted to take the floor, which is what Mr Bana said, that this is our Euro-Atlantic accession, which is clearly harmful for Hungary to belong to this system of values. For if you consider this to be the case, then you should campaign to get out of NATO and the European Union, because if this dependence is wrong, then there is no other solution than to leave these systems. I merely wanted to confirm the commitment that the Hungarian people have said in a referendum, and by a significant majority, that Hungary has always belonged to the European cultural circle, not only now, but in the last hundreds of years, and in fact that we have become members of NATO and the European Union, they are an institutional expression of this cultural bond, to say the least. I also see that our NATO membership guarantees the sovereignty of Hungary, in the form that, if you did not give it to God, Hungary would be under any attack, an entire federal system would move under Article 5 to protect Hungary. For example, I think this strengthens not only security but also the preservation of Hungarian national sovereignty. But the same is true of the economy, because we discussed this issue several times with the woman in the Committee on Budgets, when we listened to Minister Mihály Varga, that without EU funds, Hungarian GDP could not achieve such results. So in Hungarian: the Hungarian economy does not perform so well, but European resources are needed to do so, and this can be proved by numbers that Hungary is a net beneficiary of European Union funds, and is likely to have this positive impact on the standard of living, the possibility of free movement, and so on at the level of individuals. So I simply wanted to say that this Euroatlantic dependence is in my view a Hungarian national interest, because dependence must be interpreted as meaning that Hungary may give up certain small pieces of its sovereignty, put it in the joint, and then a joint stewardship takes place with it. So this is not the way that Hungary can be ordered to do it or to do it or to do it, because Europe is ourselves, NATO is ourselves, so the position of the Hungarian ministers, the Hungarian government, falls into the same vote as that of any other Member State. So I just wanted to point out that it is indeed necessary for these federal systems to be part of Hungary, and I think that this government's intention is a step in the right direction. If only in every other case similar contracts were brought to Parliament, then Hungary could certainly achieve more results on the international stage. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-114	Thank you very much. Congressman Szilágyi, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2017-02-21-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Masterházy - I have learned the name - that would make sense to argue about this, by the way. I mean, what you've just said is in what I agree with, something that I don't agree with at all. The fact that we belong to the European cultural circle is clear; this European cultural circle - I believe that too - can exist to this day because Hungary has defended this European cultural circle many times in its history, and that is why we can indeed be here. The fact that we clearly have this dependency or whether it is NATO accession or European accession is clear, as you have stated, that this can only be a positive thing for us, so that we are net beneficiaries of this, I would argue on that. I am not saying that this is completely wrong for us, and I am saying that we should start talking about this at some point, draw a balance, examine how much Hungary has lost and how much it has won with these accessions. It should be examined whether, if appropriate, if we are NATO members, it is indeed true that NATO would defend us in a conflict, since there have been examples of another part of NATO conflict and NATO has not intervened. Or what if there was a conflict between two NATO countries? That's the same question as what NATO would do then. So these are important questions that I think can really be discussed, because I do not agree with you giving up on the smaller pieces. He gave up certain opportunities, not small pieces of Hungary, but rather rather large slices, whether in agriculture or our food industry or anything else. So we could argue about it and talk about it. We have never said that we should leave the European Union, either, but we have always been misinterpreted. We have said that we need to examine how the Treaty of Accession, which we believe has been negotiated in a rather flawed way, and that there are points that should be renegotiated in this Treaty, could be changed, and that is why we should fight to make Hungary's situation as good as possible. Of course, we belong to Europe, and we really need to get along with those countries and those states. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that still affect our country. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-116	Honourable Members, Of course, I will not prevent anyone from speaking, but it is my duty to draw attention to the fact that this item is about the publication of a strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and Canada. I understand that the interpretation is wide in time, and I like it, but the agenda is right in front of me, so make sure you don't have to pull the house rules out of the drawer. Congressman Zsolt Legány, two minutes.
u2017-02-21-117	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. I follow your instructions, and I would like to return to the agenda. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, to the best of my knowledge, only Estonia has yet ratified this draft agreement from among the members of the Union before us. Therefore, I think that if the Hungarian Parliament is not the first - it is not a competition - but if we ratify this draft at the beginning of the list, or at least let us say that we can even increase it a little bit in our own premiums. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-21-118	Thank you very much for your exemplary speech. Congressman Józsa as a regular speaker, MSZP.
u2017-02-21-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Strictly paying attention to what he almost said about the fact that there is house rules in the drawer, I would like to talk about certain aspects of the strategic cooperation agreement between Hungary and Canada and Hungary with Canada as a Member State of the European Union. I believe that, in a country as small as Hungary, which is a member of a large European alliance, it is of particular importance that, if you try to establish guarantees for its democratic operation, you will conclude such agreements. These conventions are inevitably a mirror for the functioning of all countries, including Hungary. So when the Hungarian opposition tells his glorious government that there is a problem with the democratic institutional system, there is a problem with the way the media or electoral things may be happening here, the opposition is particularly lucky to have such stable, well-functioning democracies - you could say, despite what is happening in the country - strategic agreements. Perhaps in such discussions, such impulses can reach the decisive members of the government - of course, who is a decisive member of this government, it is not so easy to determine, because this government has only one dominant member, and it determines all the rest. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] Of course, there are always exceptions. (Faintness. ) So I welcome the fact that the Government of Hungary, its glorious government, has undertaken to look into such a bold mirror. [[15.40]] Get over it, see how a country with a democratic system of institutions operating a consistent system of brakes and balances, such as Canada, works and strives to benefit not only its own, but also the country, as a result of such a strategic cooperation agreement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-21-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is my duty, and it is not for any other reason, to ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'll make sure you don't. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-02-21-121	Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again. It was a pleasure to hear the banishment of the MSZP and Jobbik, as the lead speaker of both parties said in his first sentences that he was in favour of the government motion, so we could have been in the knowledge or belief that there would not be such a big debate, and yet. I think that the last half hour has been the death of all critics who have said that Parliament's intellectual ability is undervalued and undervalues the public demand that is being formulated in Hungary. I wish as many of these debates on behalf of the Government to the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-21-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the amendment proposals can be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. a general debate on the draft law amending the simple notification in connection with the extension of residential property of more than 300 square metres for non-commercial construction until closure. Government referral T/13849. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office, as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-123	Mr President, thank you very much for your repeated speech. I assure the opposition factions that this is the last presentation on today's agenda, which is held by the Prime Minister's Office on behalf of the government. There is now a bill before you, the discussion of which started essentially in spring 2016, when the Hungarian Parliament decided to support the family's home-building programme in the case of residential property with a floor area of less than 300 square metres instead of the previous authorisation procedure. The government believes that the Hungarian government is strengthening on a good slogan, but it is even better to have real content behind it, therefore, in addition to the fact that public finances, the development of public debt, the fiscal balance are all of excellent values if we compare the different figures of the last 27 years with each other, this strengthening is only true if this is reflected in the everyday lives of families, so the launch of the family home creation program is proof that these slogans are really in place not only in posters but also in real life. If a significant time has passed after the introduction of such a new provision, it is worth bringing the experience back to Parliament from time to time and discussing with the Members of Parliament the question of how we can make a proposal of this type even more realistic and even better. This proposal, which is now before you, is also essentially for this purpose. Last year, the Parliament decided to impose, in essence, an obligation to report only to builders up to 300 square meters of residential property instead of going through the previous authorisation procedure. The statistical results of this measure look at the fact that, while 12 thousand housing permits were submitted in 2015, 21 500 of the available statistics were started in 2016 and 12 thousand of them within the framework of the simplified notification. The bill, which is now before you, will or would like to amend the existing provisions in two areas. One is of a technical nature, which results in a task arrangement for the competent authorities. The other, which, I think, is much more important than that, is that the government intends to extend the simple obligation to notify up to 300 sq m to build a new flat or to build a new house and, in the case of expansion, to properties above 300 sq m, of course, only if it is not commercial property, but private property. This is of fundamental importance in the countryside, where the co-existence of several generations can be served by these rules, and where that is true, the crossing of the threshold of 300 sq m may indeed be justified. In all other cases, where it is not investment for housing, but for business purposes, and where strict procedural rules must also be interpreted in the next period. In advance of the question that is expected to arise, the rules of incorporation do not change, so in the case of a property, the construction of a plot sets a limit on this possibility. So, while complying with these rules, the government would like to dissolve the previous 300 square meters without authorisation, i.e. the maximum installation or construction related to the announcement, and extend it to properties above 300 sq m. This is the most important amendment to this proposal, and I would like to ask for the support of the parliamentary factions on behalf of the Government. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention.
u2017-02-21-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First up, Congressman Dénes Pigeon, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to continue with what Prime Minister said in yesterday's speech at the beginning of the spring session, in relation to the wording of Mr Nándor Csepreghy's head of State Secretary, that 2017 is also the year of home creation. I think that the bill before us fits in with the trend that the Secretary of State has already indicated that the government's aim is to simplify and make the process of building permits for the construction of new residential buildings and the expansion of existing residential buildings more transparent. This was the first step when, from 1 January 2016, the authorisation procedures for the construction of new residential buildings not exceeding 300 square metres of total useful floor space were simplified. As a second step, from 1 January 2017, the so-called simple notification institution was extended to expand and transform the total useful surface area of 300 square metres. In view of the demands expressed on this subject by the Secretary of State and the legitimate points raised, the T/13849 before us is the T/13849. The purpose of the bill is to further expand the scope of the institution of simple notification. The aim of the bill was to include non-commercial enlargements, building extensions or building buildings above 300 square meters in the framework of the simple notification procedure, which is also subject to the system, in the context of the expansion of the palette that I would like to indicate that it is also a legitimate need in my constituency. During the discussion of previous legislative proposals, we have also indicated that there are building needs that have been indicated by the Secretary of State, which are of relevance for several generations in the countryside, and I can support it: in my own constituency, in the 4th constituency of Fejér County, the extension of housing corresponding to previous construction trends in rural settlements and the corresponding transformation of several generations. As stated in the explanatory statement of the bill, the size limit of over 300 square meters will be used by those who seek solutions to their own housing in the absence of land, without new land. [[15.50]] This is also the area of enlargement, which is also possible by the bill before us. Thus, the multigenerational co-existence of relatives, spouses and children can be achieved, and I think that this is a desirable goal which also serves a rational use of existing housing stock and significantly reduces not only the creation of homes Instead, the migration from the settlements where we now have to solve construction habits that have developed in previous decades in a more modern and faster system. Having outlined its legal justification, and in agreement with the provisions of the head of the Secretary of State, and with what I have said above, this is also served by, among other things, the fact that the bill is also trying to bring order in the authority powers of building and building supervision in such a way that the supervision of construction is somewhat unburdened, in fact following the new structure of the district offices, the building supervision is the so-called good maintenance categories - and this is a concept that is linked to the protection of settlements, I will not go into it, the point is that we are trying to exempt the building control authorities from the fact that we are taking these tasks with this change to the high district centres, which is very important, because we must not ignore the protection of settlements, and the technical rule in this story has taken a very right and good direction. Again, what is very important is seemingly technical, but it is important to point out that we can also find a direction between the repealing provisions that is the Etv. It amends Annex 1 or repeals the amendment, namely to leave to a government regulation the differentiation that has been enshrined in the law, namely the possibility of reducing in the previous tariff system, with more differentiated treatment. So, in the combination of legal policy objectives and legal solutions, the Fidesz fraction supports the government's bill, and I ask you to support it. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-126	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa, lead speaker for the group of the MSZP.
u2017-02-21-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to reassure you immediately that you have the constitutional right to submit any proposals to this House, so do not feel restricted. We, who are here, have sworn to comply with and enforce Hungarian laws, so you cannot be subject to any restrictions on your constitutional rights here. So feel free to make any submissions, let's say, not exactly like this one. This, if I'm to put it mildly, doesn't treat the problem of small-money people over 300 square meters here, but maybe something else. So you may find a solution to the problems of the kissers, but you're not quite sure. Because if you look at the history, it is written here, so I can quote exactly that on the 15th of December 2015 the T/8196 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of economic growth was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament in an exceptional procedure. CXII of 2015 submitted a legislative proposal. I've been declared a law. It's the CXII. The number could be good, there are international practices in which 112 is listed as such as a general emergency; here, too, that anything less than 300 square meters at any time on the basis of a slight announcement, of course, only what is in line with other building efficiency and fitness requirements can be started within 16 days, so this was announced in the 2015 CXII. Law. The bill, as we already said in the parliamentary debate, was contrary to the provisions of the Fundamental Law on the protection of the environment when it was adopted. And, as I said in my introduction, we are extremely committed to enforcing legal order, we also said that this is against the law, because not only did the law which was adopted at the time, but it also violated the rights of the municipalities regarding the protection of settlement image. I was very pleased when my fellow Member, Fidesz, mentioned how much emphasis they wanted to place, and that the development of the settlement image is an important aspect, and indeed it is. So the built environment, which enriches our residential environment with real estate for many decades, sometimes centuries, in what kind of environmental and urban implementation this is, is of no concern at all. And it doesn't matter whether a local government has a way of shaping it or is excluded from the possibilities of such a law. So that's the law, that's the CXII. Act LXXVIII of 1997 on the formation and protection of the built environment was amended. Law on the construction of residential buildings of less than 300 square meters of useful floor space. This is already quading with the memory of the Secretary of State, it really became effective from 1 January 2016, when it introduced a simple notification procedure for the construction of these residential buildings. Our view is that, in accordance with their own ministerial statement, the government pushed the bicycle too quickly in the case of construction, because there was a far-reaching, hasty regulation, which was corrected by Minister János Lázár, but not immediately, but submitted the LXXVIII of the year mentioned earlier on the formation and protection of the built environment. T/9369. I have made a proposal for a regulation. On the basis of this proposal, construction projects subject to a simple announcement must comply with environmental rules, as well as the municipal image law, which to some extent restores part of the local government's right to decide on the settlement image. This proposal is ultimately a confirmation that what we said about the slightly heated bill adopted on 15 December 2015 does not lack its vitality and consistency with reality, in Hungarian it is true. So it's not part of the alternative reality, it's part of the actual Hungarian reality. In that sense, this correction has put something right. I would also like to say that what you are about to put forward before I address who is good for it, who is not good for it, this bill will further expand the simple notification institution. A simple announcement can be made in addition to what has already been done, so what has already been possible under 300 square meters, now beyond the expansion of the existing residential building up to 300 square meters of all useful floor space, and also in the case of landscaping and supporting building necessary for these construction works. A natural person is also sufficient for his construction work involving a new residential building exceeding 300 square metres in total useful floor space if he is doing so for his own housing purposes and the newly built building does not contain more than one apartment. [[16.00]] Here comes the fact that you can really build multigenerational homes, in a very simple way, if you have money for this, but also a constitutional right is the right to free provision of property. So someone who has the money decides to build a notification obligation for their own purposes, say a residential property with a useful area of 400-500 square meters, which is more than 100 million forints, wherever they are building in the country. And then, by virtue of his constitutional right, he chooses not to use it for his own purposes after obtaining the permit to use it, but, perhaps, in view of his changed living conditions, which can, of course, happen, especially when someone is thinking about living together for several generations. So this, in our view, is no limit to the construction for its own purposes. It is equally possible to build on this simple announcement for market purposes. Therefore, this justification does not exclude or restrict the inclusion of commercial construction and can be included in this very beneficiary category. Interestingly, the division of powers between building and building supervision is affected by this bill, and this division of tasks is changing. It's hard to understand how. An expert opinion was sent to us here before the agenda was discussed. The opinion considers this part of the proposal that, by providing for a simple notification procedure instead of the construction authorisation procedure currently in force, this means, for example, that, in the case of suburban parts, the building authority, but the building supervisor, will eventually act, will verify that the conditions are met during the entry into service procedure, so that the building department in this area, generally called these units, will in principle cease its tasks. So it will be decisively assessed ex post whether the building meets the necessary requirements or not. We believe that it actually creates a vulnerable situation for those who do not belong to Fidesz's circle of friends. Because when there is a regular construction authorisation procedure, the builder, or the designer acting on his behalf, will clarify to the construction authority how the rules should be interpreted there, in that particular place, and whether the plan that is planned there complies with these rules. So it doesn't go blindly into the dark to decide whether, in the end, they have invested in that particular structure in an appropriate, acceptable manner, up to 10 million forints, but the rules of the game have been clarified in advance. By contrast, the justification is 5. Paragraph 5 of the Act states that the absence of a good maintenance procedure from the building monitoring authority will be realised by this proposal. It is true that this procedure is submitted to the construction authority in accordance with the text, but the provisions on the procedure are repealed by Article 6 of the proposal. Point (c) of the first subparagraph. So it seems to be creating an essentially unregulated situation. This rule stated that the authority is required to carry out a statutory audit, to carry out an obligation to carry out the existing works, as a result of the inspection, to oblige the owner of the building to carry out the necessary works, or to carry out the necessary construction work, if the condition of the building does not jeopardise the fitness, life and health, public and property security. So here we are not sure that everyone will know what to do after the adoption of this law. One thing is certain, either there was a mistake, or leaving this rule was intentional for some reason. This is the rule, and the changes in powers between the building authority and the construction authority confirm the suspicion that this bill is based solely on specific group interests, and not necessarily what you said in the introduction that the country's economy, the creation of people at home and the service of such noble goals should be achieved. In view of this, the MSZP Group is unable to support and support the bill with a good heart. It is clear that the simplification proposal, which had been carried over by force, did not meet the requirements, not only has the construction situation become simpler, but also more uncertain, but also because of the new patchwork and pretext of the spoiled regulation, the governing parties seem to favour only those who can count on their friendly agreement. And there is no clear norm for how anyone can be a good citizen through concrete plans and what aspects of the protection of settlements, and can then obtain permission for their apartment. On this basis, we support the possibility of building an accelerated, simplified authorisation procedure, the possibility of consulting the construction authority, but we consider it extremely dangerous to regulate the construction of such a small horse or to start building such high-value buildings. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-02-21-128	Thank you very much. Member István Hollik, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-129	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Mr Secretary of State and my fellow Members have also spoken about the purpose of the bill, and I would not repeat that, but allow me to draw your attention to two other points which have not been raised so far. One is that it is well known to all of us that, after the 2008 crisis, the real estate market has not only broken in Hungary, but in the whole world, the number of constructions has fallen sharply. After 2010, but after 14 it was even more important for the government to support the construction sector, as it makes a major contribution to the growth of the economy. I think that if this objective is a priority for the government, then it should also be a goal to review the rules on construction, to make them as simple as possible, so that we can reduce the administrative burden of these construction projects - private constructions and non-commercial constructions here. I think that this is the way he started, or this was the basic idea that brought to life the law that introduced the simple filing process for residential properties of less than 300 square meters in the first round, and replaced the complicated authorisation procedure that had been in force before. [[16.10]] I think that this was a good effort, and it has been long since the introduction of this law, so that the experience of this can be filtered through the government's experts to go further. That's one aspect. The second aspect is that the government and the Fidesz-KNDP are also committed to home creation, which is why the Prime Minister said yesterday that 2017 will be the year of home creation, and that is why the government is spending HUF 211 billion on the home creation programme. Since the introduction of the family home creation discount in 2015, 36 thousand applications have been accepted, which means nearly HUF 90 billion, and only in December last year almost HUF 10 billion were contracted, almost 60% of all CSOK subsidies, HUF 51 billion were taken up by families building or buying new apartments. Almost half of the subsidies were given to large family members, or those who undertook to raise at least three children, we were able to grant VAT refunds to another 5,000 families worth HUF 22 billion. I think that these figures also show that we have started in the right direction in the area of home creation, and I think that when we are talking about cutting red tape or simplifying legislation, it is also important to take into account that family home creation benefits are being used by more and more families, more and more people want to build, and obviously if they want to build, it is important that they are not burdened by excessive bureaucracy. I think that with this bill, which is now ahead of us, we would like to help these families, because with this proposal the scope of the institution of the simple announcement will be extended beyond what has already been laid down, now, thanks to the new regulation, if we accept this, residential buildings built or extended for non-commercial purposes over 300 square meters may also be possible with a simple announcement. I think this is important, because at the moment, in a house over 300 sq m, where there are typically more apartments - the Secretary of State mentioned a multigenerational house in the country, but we can also mention a condo in the city - where, let's say, someone lives on the ground floor and wants to build a 10-20 sq m room for his apartment on the ground floor, this type of enlargement could not be done with a simple announcement, even if the apartment owned by that individual was less than 300 sq m, not because the entire residential area is over 300 sq m. With the new provision, I think that this contrast is resolved by the regulation, and this changes, so that the way to expand this type of housing with a simple announcement will also be opened. Of course, this bill - it is important to stress this - does not affect housing built for sale below 300 sq m. On this basis, I believe that this legislation, if we accept it, will help families to make it easier and easier for them to do so if they want to create a new home, or to expand the existing one, and for example use a family home-building discount. So on this basis, I say that KDNP will support this bill, and I also ask my fellow opposition Members to think about it, and they also support this basically bill for families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-130	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament, is next in this case the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Our fellow Member, Józsa, has just given a very long and detailed description of the history of the simplified notification procedure. I would like to summarize this in a sentence: Antal Rogán broke the entire Hungarian building right with his first ministerial activity, and then the Prime Minister's Office tried to correct it in some way with the municipal image law, but at the same time politics and business are becoming increasingly infiltrated in both this law, the Law on Construction and the City Picture Act. That's what this bill before us has nothing to do with architecture, it's pure business. Because, by the way, in response to my fellow Member, Hollik, tell me, what kind of family is it that needs more than 300 square meters of real estate to create a home, say, 500? Are we talking about Don Corleone? What families? What social impact do you expect from this bill? And while we are at it, please allow me and specifically ask the Secretary of State to pay attention to me a little bit, so I think that when I am standing in front of you, I am speaking as a citizen, not simply as a representative of the opposition, but as a citizen who is concerned about his country, concerned about the visual environment that surrounds us in this country, most of all, for values, and seeing the very serious and dangerous way that the government now forces us to have what negative effects this can have. So I would like to ask you to give a little thought to the impact of this bill before us on Hungarian society. Let's start by making our built environment better, whether our visual culture will improve. Certainly not, because now not only for constructions below 300 square meters, but now for constructions above 300 square meters, all the dams, brakes and regulated frames that have been sweated out of themselves by construction law with long decades of work so that it is not insufferably possible to build an ugly house in Hungary are now practically repealed. Because, yes, now we won't need a plan council over 300 square meters, there won't be any social debate whether or not anyone likes the construction, all these regulations and frameworks will be suspended, only the installation percentage, the construction site, the height of the building, the installation mode and the minimum green surface, that will matter. What that concrete building looks like is not going to interest anyone, or will obviously be interested in the neighbourhood, and otherwise the residential community will be interested in later on, but no one will be interested in it there and then, because there is no official procedure, but there is simply an announcement, and then in a few days you can start building a building virtually no matter how big it is now, if you say it is for the purpose of the residential building. Will there be less conflict between a citizen and a citizen, between a neighbor and a neighbour, by bringing in this bill? That's the whole point of the law, isn't it? - to serve social peace, in fact, of all the laws that we create here in this house. Well, I don't think that this bill would serve, because, once again, we can talk about this 300 square meters a lot, but it could be a thousand, ten thousand square meters, which we're talking about here, no matter how many buildings we're talking about, and practically one day the neighbors will wake up to the fact that the landworks are starting and a tower is building next to them, and no one has told them about it. I know that what I am saying here is a very absurd life situation, Mr. Secretary, but unfortunately, it can be read out of this law, and I will tell you why: because the regulatory environment that you have included in this bill is full of numerous loopholes, which, believe me, will be abused, because there are not only well-meaning, honest, decent Hungarian people in the construction market, but also unfortunately, let us say that there are real estate investors who create real estates for sale purposes. I'll give you a specific example, a design program will be the following: 1,000 square meters, 100 rooms, a large family, a lot of visitors from relatives, all this has to be designed with an apartment solution for the architect. It doesn't even occur to anyone that a thousand square meters is an apartment. Well, yeah, he's a rich man, he likes comfort, and that's, yeah, that's a way to do it. [[16.20]] Then you have the permission to use it, and the next day, this man can separate this house with an internal conversion, sell it as a condominium, because it is possible here. It doesn't control how many years it can be re-valued. The right to property is our most fundamental constitutional right, and no one can limit that, so this law doesn't. So the building that I built for myself, because I like comfort, I like beauty and big, I have access to it, and then I can do whatever I want with it. Yes, after that István Garancsi is a nice tall house, now we know that you can build more than 65 meters at the end of the Kopaszi dam, now you are thinking maybe 200 metres, or something quite high in a skyscraper, yes, practically you can also build it if you comply with the requirements for the height of the building, the percentage of installation, the minimum green surface. You won't need anything else. By the way, who's it for? This is not in favour of the rurals, Mr. Secretary of State. I'll tell you who it's for. In the inner-city districts, imagine, the fashion nowadays is to raise the so-called level indicator. I translate the floor space into Hungarian, meaning that all built-in square meters divided by the plot area. Within Budapest there is a recommendation on how much is the ideal level area indicator for each district. This is well beyond what is defined, and they will get the discharge from the Budapest head architect, which I think is wrong. After that, yes, it will be possible to create attic constructions in downtown districts, not at one level, but even at several levels, because the installation height will allow this to happen in a lot of places. I therefore believe that this will essentially serve business interests, that its social impact will be catastrophic, that there is no justification for what could otherwise be said here in a well-meaning, fair legislation. And let me tell you one more thing: what absurd life situations can this law create? I'm going to mention two things. In the case of existing apartments, the first problem is that today you can log in virtually anywhere in Hungary. It's strange, surprising, and thoughtful, but it's true. Remember the case of Joav Blum, who checked into a barn and got his housing license there. That's where he got his address card. Second, how many places can you check in today, what is the minimum square metre per person? There is no such thing, and it is even against the law to determine this, so much so that some local governments across Hungary have tried to determine the square metre per person in size with at least one dog kennel. According to the EU recommendation, it is 10 square meters, but in Hungary 6 square meters is enough for a dog. But it's enough for a man to weigh up to a tenth of a square foot. Therefore, in Borsod, in Békés and South Transdanubia, a popular game was formed for certain aids and municipal subsidies, which is a little more than the other half villages in one village to sign into an apartment. Can you imagine that on the basis of this, 100 people may live in an apartment, and all 100 of them may be owners, because why not... [[Dr. István Apáti's intervention:]] Wherever he may be, exactly as my fellow Member says, and at the same time you can all decide to submit such a simplified notification procedure, and up to a hundred of you can decide to extend that property to over 300 square meters at the same time. What chaos will this mean, even in this particular situation? Obviously, it was an absolute life situation that I said, but unfortunately, according to this law, it's still possible. So believe me, what I am saying is not a rhetorical turn of events, because, although I am an opposition Member, and this rhetorical turn of events is something that we often live on, but I really think that this is something that I want to withdraw. This is completely pointless, unnecessary and harmful. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that I can speak after the main speakership. And now the lead speaker of the LMP, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It's a bit surreal sitting here listening to this debate. While some members of the Fidesz group are talking about the country's biggest problem on the second day of the spring session is that all families who want to build over 300 square meters cannot do this without permission. This is such a problem that people over 300 square meters must be allowed to take the prime now, and Fidesz-KDNP sees no major problem in Hungarian society. Meanwhile, I am listening to the debate here and I see that you are serious about this. My fellow Member Hollik says that this helps Hungarian families. The KDNP families may have political dynasties, when the boy is involved in politics, already want to come to the municipality; that may be a problem, but not in the majority of Hungarian society. I must be honest with you that I listened with great interest to my better fellow speaker, because when I read this, I did not think that this could be such a big problem, but it could indeed raise such a problem. I can't imagine how many of these will be, how many people there are in Hungarian society who say that I want to build a family house over 300 square meters, but I'm not doing it because I have to get a permit. How many of these families are there? How many demands have come in that I have a terrible family problem, Mr. Secretary of State, but if I could build a family house over 300 square meters, then there would be prosperity, civil democracy and the welfare of the European state. That's what I need. So it seems completely surreal at the beginning of 2017, when the year began with a village of people freezing in Hungary, then it started with the fact that they couldn't come out in Pest, because their life expectancy was reduced by those who were walking down the street because of the smog situation. So we're full of social problems, education and health system problems that the government pretends they don't even know exist, and they come in here, making sure that over 300 square meters of real estate don't have to be subject to a building permit procedure. It is possible to say that we should read precisely, in detail, the legislation, the codified text and let us talk about it, but the political aspects of this, the world in which you live and what social problems you face, this perfectly points out. This legislation defines your value system. 'Cause what's their biggest problem? The biggest problem they have is that the money their criminal organizations stole can no longer be put in place, and they want to build so that they don't have to ask permissions for these properties as far as possible. Technically, this well - known fidesz road is hidden under the cover of bureaucracy reduction, and it will be marked from the point of view of the common good, even though it is clear that some people, some rich - Lőrinc Mészáros, are building another villa somewhere in Buda? - to meet his needs. What legal standards have been violated by their previous procedures so far is clearly not important. The most recent amendment of the law already violates Community rights and intentions and unduly restricts the law of construction through the implementation of regulations aimed at the harmonious development of other laws, local regulations and settlements. So I fully, perfectly agree with my better fellow Member, LXXIV of 2016. Law on the protection of the settlement image as if it didn't exist. From then on, it ceased to exist, and it was repealed with such a provision. Anyone who goes into the settlement and wants to build one of these doesn't matter. Earlier in an authorisation procedure, especially until the authority was merged, the various administrative provisions tried to sell the sectors with a consensus. Suppose there's a local protected building or a historic building in a settlement, next to which a small pub in chilibili didn't look so good. At the time, in the construction regulations, in the historic protection procedure, or in the case of local protections, the nature protection authority, if there is a park or a line of wood, had to be involved, the opinions of the administrative authorities had to be taken into account. When this whole thing was put together in a government office, this control went away. From now on, the basic authority, which deals with architecture, can override all opinions on its own. Now this whole procedure is even more neutered, because it is basically about eliminating the process that could be used to exercise any kind of control. And it's obviously interesting what it's all about. Technically, by overloading the architectural design profession, because if I understand the legislation correctly, everything is passed on to the designers. When I was preparing for this debate, I saw the site of the architectural chamber hiding, that the chamber wrote that the law would increase the responsibility of the designer to an unjustified extent by making everyday legislative and legislative compliance fully the responsibility of the designers, while the designer's task was to comply fully with the building interests. So, basically, it's just that someone orders it, it pays for it, and from now on, the designer's not an authority, he doesn't tell his client that it's bad in the city, it's a local protected line, and it doesn't fit in there. [[16.30]] Obviously, that's not expected of the designer. Still the Chamber's opinion: how can the architect coordinate the often different community, law and neighbourhood interests in one person, especially if he receives his payment from the same hand? With the abolition of the ceiling for designers, the level of responsibility will also be inaccessible. There is no liability insurance to cover these risks for architects. Technically, you're saying that the government gives you freedom in everything, that the designers do everything, that they're responsible for everything. From here on out, it's practically free to rob, or what they know, who can afford. Obviously, the social background is that practically in the whole system there is this new layer of money that you are pushing in front of you, the newly rich, draining of European Union funds, stealing public money. [[Dr. István Apáti: Founder of the hunting company.]] , a layer of hunting company-based and enriching processes like this, while a large part of Hungarian society is not faced with this. For example, Mr Secretary of State, I respectfully wonder whether there is a statistical number that currently one third of the buildings built in Hungary still do not reach the overall level of comfort; at the moment, one third of the buildings in Hungary are in Hungary. This means that if you look at all residential properties, one third of them still do not have a heating system and a hot water supply system that would ensure European life. Compared to this, we are not trying to promote by law how we can create a background to help families who need it, no. We help those families - oh, how many of them in the country? - who want to build over 300 square meters of real estate. So you have to see how many people there are. You are the governments of the few, the parties of the few who can influence the media and economic life, but do not face what is essential to Hungary's society. And speaking of architectural regulations, I don't want to talk home about how LMP always talks about Paks and stuff, but in architectural regulations, I don't know, three years, four years ago, how we should focus on energy-efficient architectural systems that would help to achieve a sustainable, sustainable reduction of the overhead. But you're not interested in that. It doesn't matter what these properties will be, it doesn't matter how energy efficient they will be. Now it would be possible to codify without further ado how the same layer you want to benefit from, because you have enough money to build a 300-square-square-meter house, so that from now on you can only create active houses or passive houses, and, if possible, not huge, energy-eating properties. I'll tell you why I see this as a problem. They don't know it yet, but they're also deceiving these people. Because once there is a normal government in this country, which is not motivated by theft and tries to represent Hungarian society, then, of course, this completely unjustly enriched few thousands of families you are about to put in position, sooner or later you will have to impose a tax on your luxury spendings of this kind and swimming pools and four or five garages with some kind of tax. Can't you expect that? 'Cause how are we gonna track down the public assets they're leaking? What will be the solution to those who now have access to all sorts of unethical tools, theft, fraud, and these European Union funds, then be accountable for this wealth? I very much hope that it will come when, for the properties above 300 square meters, it will be examined how the resources relating to their architectural construction have come together. And then, obviously, we can go back to this legislation in particular, so that we can think about it again. So I'll ask if it's so important to families, because it's important to you that families can build over 300 square meters, but in case you think about all the other families. What about social housing, access to housing for young people, homes for young people coming home from abroad, existing but necessary renovations, modernisations, private homes that need to increase energy efficiency? Why aren't those important? Why aren't we bringing in legislation on those? Why don't we argue about this? Do you know that according to the latest census data in the home population, 80 square meters is not reached in most families? That's the vast majority. I know you're less faced with these things, that's why I'm telling you. In your circles of friends, KDNP buddies, it must be 300 square meters, but still census data, specific statistics, that most of the apartments are less than 80 square meters. Technically, you can say that they're making legislation for people... It's a very, very interesting question to whom it's important, who initiated it, how they came up with it. I do not wish to offend Mr Secretary of State, but I would very much like to know who it was who woke up one morning and said that Hungary's main problem is that the permit procedure for buildings over 300 square meters should be carried out. Who came up with this, what social background, social consultation, social need? Because, obviously, right now, all we can see is the damage and the dangers. The reason why I am calling here - we are in the capital - to the attention of many people to this architectural regulation is because I believe that there are colleagues in this country where there are sharp and rugged regions, that it is possible, without further ado, that in front of their apartments and windows, real estates could change not only the value of their property but also the quality of life by what they will see from there. I can tell you any number of such cases in the Beech area when new-rich people buy the property and pull up their two-to-three-storey luxury villas next to the farmhouses. And this will only strengthen the construction of these villas, nothing else. Obviously, they're gonna push it through force, I assume, that's the schedule. I would like to know in a year's time, and then in the course of the elections, how many properties have been built due to these permits, how much has become more than 300 square meters, what the Hungarian families have taken and who they are. Because I am convinced that this is not a draft legislation for the general Hungarian people. My problem is that, as in so many things, it represents only Hungary and the interests of the few. However, I do not know whether the Secretary of State is offended or not. I have to announce that the Group of Possibly Other Politics will not support this draft legislation and we do not want to vote in favour of it. After all, we do not feel that it is in the interests of the community. As a final sentence, although this is the least of anyone's interests, an important aspect of this is also that, in general, we are very, very concerned about the process that is destructive not only in relation to our architectural culture, which my good fellow Member has described in detail, but also in particular in the efforts to protect natural values and to protect local protected values. Accordingly, if there is a way to do this, I think that Fidesz-KDNP, if you would reconsider and withdraw this proposal, I think that it would be welcome for Hungarian society. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-02-21-134	Thank you very much, honourable Member. It is quite obvious that it is justified and made it possible here to terminate the use of the question in Hungarian grammar. Please, as everyone in the Hungarian Parliament should, of course, pay attention to this as part of the national cultural identity, which does not, of course, affect the content of what you have to say. I just thought I'd give Mr. Secretary the opportunity to breathe, as he's next. State Secretary Csepreghy has applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, After the lead speech round, I thought I should open up the possibility of another round, because it is often said that there will be no substantive debate here on the legislative proposals. I've always respected you for the past year and a half, since I've had the opportunity to argue with you, professional arguments, but allow me, Mr President, not to answer demagoguery now. I'm trying to focus on the parts that I think require a meaningful government reaction. First of all, and there will be some overlap in my response to the three opposition speakers, so I apologise, but first I would like to respond to Congressman Józsa, who basically created an end-of-the-world atmosphere, and said that the new construction regulation, which started last January, and which continues with the current legislative proposal, creates nothing more than uncertainty in the construction sector. Now, Mr President, this uncertainty has resulted in more than a doubling of constructions started in the first 9 months of 2016 compared to 2015. Of this doubling, 12,000 families, which, according to the lowest calculation, means 36,000 people, were simplified procedures where this home creation program was launched and the construction started itself. So the uncertainties you mentioned resulted in more than a doubling of the number of homes started in Hungary by families compared to 2015. [[16.40]] Then he also told me how much damage the law is causing, because it breaks down the limits, and then he said himself why the municipal image protection law and other governmental provisions - which were created or adopted in Parliament thanks to the laws that you have also discussed and adopted by Parliament - are an obstacle to this. I accept that the opposition genre is difficult, but here it is worth it to the government these high balls, from which you have thrown a lot of it on this side, to knock it down. Allow me also to respond to the question that has been raised, for example, by Congressman Sallai, that this is not in the interests of anyone other than rich families. Yes, there are many families in Hungary where they cannot afford to buy an independent plot worth millions of forints, and they can build on the family property, on the property of parents or grandparents in justified cases, if the installation limits allow. In the case of such a family, such a construction project, which now exceeds the 300 sq m property limit, can happen without buying land. So you can really help, save millions of forints for many Hungarian families. So it's not just the richer who are affected by this type of measure, as you mentioned. But, by the way, while we are talking about this, let me also speak on behalf of a government that thinks of itself as a national, that, yes, we also consider it important to strengthen the middle class. Because even if a poorer family is building, and even if a richer family is building, those investments will increase Hungarian employment, those investments will increase domestic construction, commercial traffic, and those investments will expand the Hungarian state register through various contributions. So I think it is not worth making a distinction here on a social basis or on a class basis between who is affected by the type of benefits. All the measures that are in front of you today's legislative proposal do not alter the municipal image protection law at all, for which, as a result of the legislative amendment adopted by the Parliament at the end of last year, every local government has the opportunity to prepare these documents by the end of October this year, and the smaller municipalities have also received significant government help to do so. With regard to the determining authorities, I think that what Mr Sallai has on the agenda is that this is a technical issue. So what the task is to be performed by state control authorities and that has been done by several back-up institutions before, and now, where appropriate, by the government office, is indistinguishable from the way in which the law described applies in Hungary in terms of implementation. So it is not a guarantee of compliance with a construction rule that how many state offices, how many government offices, how many back-up institutions control this, but that the actors who act on behalf of the government or representing the state carry out the tasks which apply to the maximum compliance of Hungarian laws. I would like to jump over what Mrs Hegedűs Lorántné said here, but I will return to this, but in the matter of planning responsibility only allow me to ask you, Member, or to ask you, why is it a problem that, in the case of design, the designer has a responsibility. So why is it not a normal case in Hungary that, where the designer has to put down a paper, who knows the laws, who should be aware of the rules under which a residential property must be built, it is indeed a legal and financial responsibility that the work that he has done afterwards, if he does not comply with the rules, and consequently damages the construction family, who does not have this knowledge, as a matter of fact, then, the designer must be able to assume responsibility in an insurance relationship, even if he assumes the financial burden, and not the builder who is not an expert compared to him. If this system is implemented and works this way, then there is indeed a guarantee that the residential properties that can be built in this system will be built not to serve the needs of the builder, but to serve the needs of the builder and to comply with the law. So to present the question of design responsibility as a matter of a devil, this is as irresponsible as I believe it is to say that there is no responsibility, let's say, for a doctor in the event of a medical malpractice, the patient he treats dies, let's say. So this question is no different in this respect. Yes, the designer, the engineer, is responsible for the work he puts on the table or does not sign that document. So, yes, the creation or creation of this professional control is very important. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs asked two questions in essence in the introduction. One is the infiltration of politics and business into the construction industry. Yeah. Family policy and construction, we're talking about these two stories. I was just sketching myself a sketch. Where, say, three generations, grandparents, parents and children - we are talking about family-founding young people - they are building on a plot where the possibilities of installation make this possible, the 300 square meters: 50 square meters for the apartment of grandparents - but this is only an example, this slider can be moved as far as possible - 100 square meters for parents and 150 square meters for young people, I think it is not an oversized construction that creates a living space that is significantly different from the Hungarian average, and in case it is implemented on a plot, it can only be brought in by the millions of forints that cost the purchase of land and the purchase of construction land. How and how the visual environment is developing, Madam Member, if someone in this Parliament knows this, she must know that this does not depend on these rules. We now touch on the only rule of the whole construction framework, which is the issue of the building permit procedure for residential properties. Neither the municipal image protection law nor any other laws that allow this to happen are affected. If you have problems with incorporation or construction rules or parameters, either Jobbik, the MSZP or any parliamentary faction or even the profession, this should be governed by completely different provisions, either at local or state level. We're open to that. I think there may be a lot of debate in this Parliament between the opposition and the ruling party on this issue, but perhaps it was the construction story, where I think we have accepted most of the opposition amendments in the last year, where there have really been significant contributions, and I think that none of you should go off the agenda, because there is a real dialogue between the responsible opposition and the self-responsible government in this respect. I would therefore like to ask that, if you submit concrete amendments later, we will treat them in the same way as we have dealt with the previous laws. One final comment on all the speeches. I think that it is not possible to legislate in Hungary by assuming that anyone to whom these laws apply will carry out any act in the light of the consideration of deceiving the state and circumventing the laws. I would like to ask the representatives of the Hungarian opposition to have more confidence in Hungarian citizens, perhaps then the public mood will also be a little better in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now it's a two-minute lap. First, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm afraid you're infinitely in good faith, and you don't realize how many loopholes are hidden in this bill. Now I'm gonna ask you something. We talk all the time about home-building, family politics, housing, and all that. Are you saying that this can be ruled out in any way, say, for office building? Mr. Secretary, do you think I can build an office based on this? [[Nándor Csepreghy: No.]] No. Well, then you deserve to be wrong. Here's the problem. As I told you before, I think I can build a 3,000-square-meter apartment for myself, which is an apartment-style apartment, because I like it, I order it from the architect, who takes full responsibility for all 3,000 square meters. We'll build it nicely, and then I'll get a permit to use it, and then, if this building is, say, in a VT, so it's in a community center mixed construction zone, and otherwise the construction rules allow me to use a function other than an apartment, no one can stop me from asking for a change of destination. It's not written in this law. Let's put it in there, and then I'll believe that you're right or you're right. But now it is if I can fool the authority, not the authority, but those who look at my filing procedure, and then, in the case of the in-service building authority, to believe me that I'm building an apartment, and that's just possible with a loose floor layout, and then the next day, with an internal remodeling, it can become an office. That's what we're talking about, that's what we call a loophole, and that's why it's not acceptable in this form. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.50]]
u2017-02-21-138	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Legány, MSZP!
u2017-02-21-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With respect to Mr Secretary of State's statement that he does not want to deal with demagoguery, I would like Congressman Hollik to answer me a very simple question. You have heard several times from the benches of the opposition that we believe that there are personalised laws in this country in many cases, and Fidesz provides for this, let's say, the background of the law factory. Whether Congressman Sallai or several other speakers have mentioned that it is not very realistic that most of the Hungarian families would start building over 300 square meters, so my respectful request to Congressman Hollik is to tell me specifically who this law might apply to, because I would suggest that either you are a cashier or, perhaps, I don't know, Árpád Habony, although we know that he lives on loans. So, which Fidesz potentate does this bill apply to? Because we have an idea of who it might be, but I'd prefer to change it. Congressman Hollik is able to say total nonsense at any time, read out of paper, and I hope that he can say this to me now without paper, because it is not a long speech. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-02-21-140	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Congressman Sallai, Honourable Parliament, I would like to inform you that by publishing a statement from the Member, he has demonstrated that he has taken the appropriate line of an approach to a linguistic debate and has made his point of view as he has done so, and I cannot describe the details of this in this debate, but in the future yes, it is certainly not the momentum and carelessness, but a commitment that has made this possible for him. And now I'm the one who's gonna make it possible for him to give his opinion in two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-141	Thank you sincerely and respectfully, Mr President. Secretary of State, to the fact that you do not want to respond to demagoguery, say owl to sparrow. If you bring this here not to do something for the Hungarian families, but to do something for the Hungarian families, and bring it here, then, unfortunately, we have to carry out the order of the Fidesz elite, then I say that I accept it, that's how things go, so they govern; but don't defend it with demagogues if you don't want to hear similar reactions, because it's practically very difficult to react differently. So forget the Hungarian families, the vast majority of whom will not be affected almost exclusively by this legislation. But there's one thing I wanted to do that I really wanted to respond to. Don't get me wrong, I didn't say that designers should have no responsibility, I just said that the government, the authority, should have responsibility. I also say to my fellow Member, Zsolt Legány, that what we are talking about is interesting because it is not just about families building or not building over 300 square meters, but it is about whether anyone who has built over 300 square meters is able to conduct an authorisation procedure. Is it possible now that any family can build a property this big, if it has that kind of money, it's just that in a fair trial - is it fair? - as Fidesz's national cooperation system allows, so in such a procedure it should be possible. Overall, in order to harm the family in terms of design errors, it is absolutely necessary to avoid the problem, not by doing so, but by harming the community, the city, the neighbours in general and, in some cases, the people of good taste in their mere nature. They will not be compensated if you vote in favour of this legislative proposal. That is why I asked you to consider your fate and reconsider your previous position. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-21-142	Thank you very much. We now return to the normal speeches. First, Congressman István Hollik, KDNP. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-143	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for this pleasure meeting. In addition to all the demagogic remarks, your speeches still make this debate meaningful. I think, I understand that the opposition's job is to come in and repeat any bill they propose and repeat their demagog mantras. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is demagogy!]] But I think you should read the law. As a representative of 57 square meters, I think that what you have done here, Congressman Sallai and Congressman Bana, [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Bana is not here! Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Tibi wasn't even here!]] yelling at me is insulting. Therefore, I think that if you are insulting your political performance, you should not be surprised that your political support in public opinion polls is in line with this performance. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Wait till spring!]] Let's get back to... [[Dr. István Apáti: How big is KDNP? Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] I think everyone has a chance to press a button, do it. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: It also generates the push of the button! Dr. István Apáti: You are the Fidesz ventilator. If the power goes out... constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] So first, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are now shouting to read the bill. Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs said that this bill is nothing but pure business. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the title of the bill is as follows: it is an amendment to the extension to the non-commercial construction - I do not know if there are textual problems, but it is quite obvious. As I understand it, the only thing you're clinging to is the fact that we're talking about more than 300 square meters of real estate here. I think that here too, or I do not think it is textual; I think the fact is that you have not read the bill. The bill states that in a residential house over 300 square meters, where there may otherwise be more apartments, so where appropriate, for the sake of simplicity, in a condominium, if you understand what I mean, it has not been possible to extend with simple announcements, even if the apartment owned by the individual initiating the expansion is less than 300 square meters. I don't know if it's obvious or obvious to you what that means. If there is a condo in it, someone has a flat of 50 square meters, say, on the ground floor, the construction and other rules allow him to build another room for this 50 square meters apartment, then he had to apply for a building permit earlier, since the whole condo, which is residential property, was over 300 square meters. With this legislative simplification, if you want to make an extension of this condominium, you don't have to ask for a building permit, but only the announcement. We're not talking about construction over 300 square meters. It is a rather lifelike regulation. If we stick to the example of the Secretary of State: there is a multigenerational rural house, which, by the way, is, say, 290 square feet or apologies, 310 square meters, but there are three generations in it, and, by the way, one generation, let's say, the young family members, since the third child is coming, can use the CSOK; it is not unviable, and I think that the one who is ignoring that social layer - I am thinking of our fellow Member Sallai Benedek, and of those who say that the number of people who want to live with it is not significant - I do not think that tens of thousands of families do not take into account in this respect. Now, if there is a multigenerational house not much more than 300 square meters, in which they already live, and let's say that the young family has a 100-square-square-square-meter apartment in it, and would like to build a room for it, since there is a new child coming to that enlargement - that's what this law is about - now you don't have to ask for a building permit, just a simple announcement. So I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members, including Zsolt Legény, and perhaps it is understandable for you to read the law, because that is what the law is about. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Zsolt Legény: To whom do you refer, Congressman?]] Every family who wants to live with it.
u2017-02-21-144	Stop, stop, stop! The thing is, I give the floor because it's my job. So now Congressman Józsa will have the opportunity.
u2017-02-21-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is also an interesting, pleasant detour for me, as Mr President pays attention to the rules of the Hungarian language, it also bothered my ears, and unfortunately I am not yet in possession of the knowledge why this is possible. What I would like to say, however, is that I tend to appreciate insight. So, Secretary of State, if you have a sharp view of this situation, you are doing very well, and I would appreciate that. Only this insight should include the fact that the correction made by Minister János Lázár showed the error of the original law with evidentiary force. So if you think that I can't find anything wrong with the submissions, then you're wrong, because that's exactly what I found. [[17.00]] Returning to the questions of building efficiency and your view that the main reference system for compliance has been restored, I see that it has not recovered, there is still uncertainty. Therefore, according to the present situation, a simple notification obligation should be made to the construction authority. The working parts of the construction design documentation required for the construction activity subject to simple announcement are the design list of the signatory sheet, so, after all, it is a table of contents, a site drawing that is sensible, a marking site drawing, a street view, which is really the designer's idea or the client's idea, because there was no other consultation. Plans of different levels, sections, facades, structure plans, system design of the building's technical equipment, technical specifications and a budget statement. On the 16th day following this notification, which the builder puts to the construction authority, if no feedback is received on the 16th day, the construction activity may be started. This procedure is of concern that the building supervision, which will then comment on the permit to use the completed building, will not be able to monitor compliance with the local construction regulations with the same thoroughness and detail as the local construction authority does, in particular with regard to the fact that this procedure has only 55 days and there is no consultation. So this is a very good acceleration, but when I say that citizens are in a vulnerable position, people who want to build, then I think that in hindsight, you're right to say that 12 thousand people have started construction, because it's easy to start building, to finish getting approval to use it, it's not that easy. So we are not against acceleration, we are not against you wanting to help even families with such greater financial power to simply build, we simply do not see the consistency in this proposal, or in this current state, which would give us reassuring certainty that if someone built a residential house, they can then use it, and not use penalties or remodels to use it, or that the settlements would have the opportunity to create a more pleasant urban image. So I pointed out the mistake of the original proposal, and that, let's say, a consultation opportunity would help the builder to protect his assets and secure his investment. I don't see the congressman talking about demagogues anymore, so I wouldn't answer him. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-02-21-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik Group.
u2017-02-21-147	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Mr Secretary, I am very sorry that István Hollik has left, and therefore I cannot tell him now, so I am obliged to address to you what I would have replied to his speech. Because basically, I think the problem between the government and the opposition is that you are very attached to these 300 square meters and you are talking about what if someone wanted 301, and it doesn't fit into this law anymore. Unfortunately, the problem is that the law itself throws the reins - and the limit is the starry sky? So if a person can convince individual municipalities to build an area the size of Hortobágy in connection with a settlement settlement settlement contract, let's say, then the sky is the limit. So you could have said that if you felt this 300 square meters was very scarce, it would be, say, 400 square meters, but that's not what you did, it would have been the new construction below 300 and the new construction over 300. So I'm telling you, the sky is the limit. Therefore, I think it would have been easier to put it in a way that, for natural persons, points 1, 2, 3 are put together nicely, everyone builds what they want for housing purposes. In parentheses, I would add that if Fiddler's word was accepted, it could be an office at the end if they asked for a change of function. That's it. So I think that as a lawmaking nonsense, it's unacceptable, and, ultimately, I ask you once again to withdraw, and let's rethink this whole story together, because it's certainly only an opportunity to abuse. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First let me start with a positive. There are several debates in which the Secretary of State sits here in the office of State Secretary, and unlike the other State Secretarys, at least Mr State Secretary stands up, is willing to argue, and not just in the closing words, he gives his opinion. That's a positive. Then that was it, because then István Hollik spoke, who then quickly left the room, so he didn't even wait for the answers. I hope it won't come to that - but I told him not to leave - that in his absence I would say that, if we are talking about polls, he is a member of an immeasurable party who has entered Parliament at the moment. [[Noise, interruptions.]] He immediately took over the fidesz arrogance, pride and pompousness, has the Philosopher's Stone, and thinks he knows everything better. I ask myself that he says, let's say, if I compare him to Mrs. Fiddler, that we didn't read it, and we didn't understand it. Well, if someone's professionalism can be questioned or questioned, then I don't think Fiddler's professionalism could be questioned, especially if he says it's in his title. He does not know that there are laws whose names and contents do not overlap. There have been cases of this in recent years. And what I would ask him, but he won't be able to answer that, I have only one question for Mr Hollik: before he presented this bill, did he negotiate, did he speak, did he agree with Mr Garancsi? Does Mr. Garanchi have anything to do with this bill that has just been tabled? That is my only question, because the personalised legislation that has already been mentioned here is likely to appear here. This is an absolute straight question, and he could answer it directly if he had not fled from Parliament, just as the single prime minister fled from certain questions yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-150	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, out of the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-02-21-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to respond on two points. The first thing that Mrs Loránt Hegedűs raised on the housing office issue. Here we would like to ask a specific, textual proposal to exclude the property, more specifically the office, sorry, not the house, but the apartment and office. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Only an apartment.]] So it's the office. Thus, only the government's draft applies to regulating and facilitating the construction of housing properties. Therefore, we would like to ask for a specific, textual proposal to exclude the offices from this, and here I promise to consult my colleagues and you on this matter. The other question that I have here is that the current opposition contributions go back to the entire construction regulations as if there had been some sort of Canaanite state here before. So if this were so and if it were true that the basic measure of visual beauty was indeed the regulation of construction in Hungary in recent years, then the visual pollution in the field of architecture, whether in Budapest or in the countryside, would not be possible. The government's simple and very clear intention is to have very clear rules, to have the architecture society, to take responsibility for what it is willing to build, to take responsibility for the builder, to comply with all laws and to serve his needs. If this is not the case, then you will assume the legal consequences of this, and if something is not built as it should be built, you will have to assume either the burden of retraction or the burden of conversion. These are three very simple rules. If this works, then there can indeed be a construction case in Hungary that is well outside the category of visual pollution, and it does create functional buildings, in line with the common taste, the acceptable sense of beauty, which meets, among other things, the aspects that Congressman Sallai has requested. And we are open to the amendments. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to my fellow Member, György Szilágyi, that I am not an unwelcome protégé of István Hollik, and I do not want to be, so what he has asked, I have already said before him, and I agree perfectly with him from this point of view. I have tried to say this nicely, that Congressman Hollik may be able to answer it this way, but he did not, but he left the room instead. But the question is really which Fidesz potenta he sought out with the idea of submitting the bill at the time the bill was submitted, because I would suggest that if there were to be a list of things, István Garancsi, but unfortunately we would be able to list many businessmen close to Fidesz who might want to have more than 300 square meters of real estate built and licensed. [[17.10]] I think that this personalized legislation, that's what we always talk about. So it is very, very interesting to me why Congressman Hollik ran away from this answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. István Apáti: You can expand the apartment!]]
u2017-02-21-154	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I saw Mr Dénes Pigeon on the screen, but he indicated that he had withdrawn his speech. [[Dr. István Apáti: The opposition's arguments led him to retreat.]] I'm asking you now, Congressman, if you'd like to speak. [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon: Yes.]] Yes, please, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-155	[[He's got the mike in his hand. The Members' words are not well heard.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be brief. One word will be the essence of my comment.
u2017-02-21-156	We'll wait for you, Congressman, if you'll be so kind as to pin it, because the radio listeners are going to resent that.
u2017-02-21-157	Thank you. So I would like to respond briefly to why I took the lead speaker's speech in this bill. I am a representative of the 4th constituency of Fejér county, where there are settlements that have been formed in the vicinity of the city, these are the settlements around the former city, and then separate municipalities. I told him what the structure of the housing stock was there, and I also told him that I was a municipal representative and deputy mayor for 26 years, and as such I know the structure of the apartments. I think that due to the structure of the apartment, it is justified to amend the law, and this is not done personally, and I reject Zsolt Legény and the others, such as György Szilágyi. Yes, I'm speaking for the families whose problems we couldn't solve. At the time, there were housing structures that could not be treated differently today than to build housing units that could be used to cohabitate several generations in the case of the existing larger plot size. It cannot be solved in the current buildings. But with these we will solve insulation, modern construction, and we will also resolve that even in the case of land shortages, where for many years there was no land design, families can move on, build homes, and indeed, as I have indicated, home creation is a continuous opportunity. I experience this in my own constituency, I cannot be disproved in this, I see the settlements walking around, and I think that this is also an important family policy goal. I agree with Mr State Secretary, and I think that we will be able to discuss this in the further debates, in the committees. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2017-02-21-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have the opportunity to speak for two minutes, as this was a normal speech. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2017-02-21-159	Thank you very much. Congressman Pigeon, this is still an opportunity. What's stopping you? All we have to do is get a permit. How much does it increase things? Like, a month apart? Or a sum? Then we could also do it to make sure that these people are better off so they don't have to plan. They can do whatever they want, build whatever they want. Our problem here is that what you bring up as an argument is not really an argument. After all, these life situations, which you have said, can and can still be done, should not be amended by law. We're afraid that's not why these things happen. Those are far more lifelike situations that my colleague Mrs Hegedűs said than the fact that someone wants to expand, because the family is really bigger, he wants to build 50 square meters, and the only thing that's stopping him right now is that he should be allowed to do so. It's not real. So I'm saying that it's possible to make people easier, it's possible to make it easier on families, it's really possible to support this, but we don't think this argument is realistic, and that's why we don't believe it's about that. That is why we consider it acceptable that it might be easier for certain people, such as Mr Garanchi, who now wants and will build in certain areas. That's our problem. What you've just told us is not realistic. However, I thank the Secretary of State once again for not speaking in the closing words, but for arguing; once. Secondly, the openness that Mrs. Hegedűs will take advantage of to make this law professionally better. We will submit amendments to it, which may at least exclude non-housing construction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-02-21-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] Yeah. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-02-21-161	Mr President, I would only like to respond to the fact that, according to the government's view, it is also the government's task in the field of construction to establish rules, with the assumption that those to whom these rules apply are not interested in circumventing the state, but in ensuring that they actually prevail and move forward. The question of consultation has been raised. Prior to the government's proposal, my colleagues at the State Secretariat for Construction consulted several organizations, including the Hungarian Chamber of Engineers and Hungarian Architects. A significant number of these types of consultations are taking place, and in recent years we have also given numerous evidences of this. These consultations are open at all times, each time following serious professional debates these arguments are formed, which we have drawn up. We believe that the figures that have shown a positive trend in construction over the last year will not only help families, hopefully as many families as possible in creating a new home or expanding the home, but will indeed have other effects in employment, in the country's economic performance. To do this, I ask for the support of the Members of Parliament and the proposals that, if they are sent to us, I really promise on behalf of the Government, we will answer them in substance. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-02-21-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/13472. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr György Czerván, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-02-21-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Looking back on the weather conditions of recent years, we are constantly experiencing an increase in the likelihood of extreme weather events and their negative economic, environmental and social impact. The most sensitive area of climate change affecting Hungary is agriculture, one of the most important tasks of which is the supply of safe food to the population. As the risks of agriculture increase, the implementation of this task could be put at risk. As a result, there is an increasing emphasis on preventing agricultural risk and risk management, which has always been given particular attention by the government. In this spirit, a two-pillar agricultural risk management system for a higher level of self-care was established in 2012, the first pillar of which is the agricultural compensation scheme covering up to 80 per cent of the damage and the second pillar is the agricultural insurance premium premium with a maximum aid intensity of 65 per cent. Agricultural compensation from purely domestic sources covers a wide range of agricultural risks. Drought, inland water, frost damage, hail, rainstorms, storms and agricultural floods. The number of producers participating in the scheme is currently close to 74 thousand. Accordingly, the area covered by the compensation is also significant, with 3.7 million hectares in 2016. The Compensation Fund, which provides cover for compensation to producers, now has significant resources to meet the needs of support for an exceptional year affected by natural disasters. A compensation allowance may currently be granted to victims who, under other conditions, have been affected by crop losses of more than 30 per cent and a reduction in production value of more than 15 per cent at operational level. The interest of producers in EU co-financed agricultural insurance premiums, which is the second pillar of the agricultural risk management system, is constantly increasing. While at the start of the scheme in 2012, the total fee for agricultural premiums was HUF 1.5 billion, while the subsidy was used by 1600 producers, we can talk about HUF 7.8 billion in 2016 and 11 200 subsidised producers. [[17.20]] The two pillars are an integral complement, since compensation is paid for similar damage to adverse weather events, and in addition, the producer in the first pillar can receive a full compensation, i.e. a maximum of 80 per cent, if he has an appropriate agricultural insurance contract, without it he can only count on half of that amount. However, the recognition of social farmers in the agricultural risk management system can only be maintained by continuous improvements consistent with the needs of producers and EU rules. These amendments were also made in line with these objectives. The main changes proposed can be summarised in three points. The first proposal is to extend the system to include a national soil generator ice prevention system, which can be built from the resources of the rural development programme. By means of the legislative amendment, we want to create a financing background for the functioning of the system that has already been set up, to which the sources of the Compensation Fund can cover in such a way that it does not require any additional payments from producers. We plan to spend up to HUF 1.5 billion each year on ice damage prevention. The amount thus used is intended to prevent damage and not to compensate ex post, so it is an efficient investment, reduces payments after hail damage and is fully in line with the objectives of the compensation scheme. Based on the experience of a similar system already in operation in South-Transdanubia, it was possible to save a production value of HUF 33 forints on average in agriculture. It is also important to see that the system will benefit not only from the sector, but also from other economic operators, the population and, in general, persons and organisations exposed to all hail damage. In view of this, it should be possible for undertakings in other sectors to make a voluntary contribution to the Fund's resources. In order to encourage voluntary payments, from 2017 onwards, companies benefiting from the offer may benefit from a corporate tax base up to 50% of their contribution. The second proposal: the current 15 per cent reduction in production value in the continuously evolving agricultural compensation scheme is now a serious filter, so the compensation benefits that can be paid are sometimes lower than the damage experienced by the producers, since the damage caused by one culture is often compensated by the good harvest of another culture. From 2012 onwards, an adequate amount of money was accumulated in the Compensation Fund, which is not in the state's pocket, but in the best position of the victims, so the agricultural administration plans to lower the 15 per cent reduction in production value rather than the current level of operation. Thus, a wider range of damaged producers can benefit from higher amounts of payments than before without compromising the viability of the Fund in the medium term. The third proposal: based on the experience of severe atmospheric droughts in 2012 and 2015, it is proposed to complement the current drought definition, which aims to compensate for drought damage caused by the heroics of summer periods under the agri-alignment scheme. It may and may have been the case that, although there is sufficient precipitation during the period, due to the high temperature humidity, the precipitation does not reach the soil, so the producers will still suffer significant damage despite falling precipitation. The amendment of the definition is based on the combined analysis of the temperature and precipitation data of the National Meteorological Service in recent summers and the occurrence of damage. In addition to the above three major changes, we have made minor technical amendments to the law, which cover the right to dispose of the agricultural risk management database, the management of the data derived from it, and the clarification of the implementation of the agricultural insurance premium from the rural development programme. I would like to mention here that in the near days related to the 2016 compensation year, some 3,300 injured producers can receive a compensation allowance of HUF 5 billion, mainly after the spring frost and ice prices of the last year, i.e. the system is still working effectively, but in this case we believe that this can still be improved. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From the foregoing, it has certainly become clear to you that the agricultural government is making continuous efforts with new solutions to enhance, succeed and recognise domestic agricultural risk management. The proposed amendments support the broad public opinion and in December 2016 we also obtained the Commission's approval, so that there is no obstacle from an EU point of view before its publication. The amendments presented are necessary and timely, so I propose that the draft be adopted by the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-165	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The bill is CLXVIII of 2011 on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production that entered into force on 1 January 2012. law, designed to amend the so-called Law of the Mkk. In Hungary, there is a functioning two-pillar agricultural risk management system, which has been doing well for several years now at European level. We know of several Member States that are interested in the Hungarian model, but we have the opportunity to further develop this well-functioning model. In return, one of the objectives of the proposal is to extend the agricultural risk management system with the national soil generator hail relief system, for which a source of aid intensity of 100 per cent from the VP is available. In this context, the Government is responsible for the implementation of Article 1486/2016. It also decided to finance the long-term operation of the national hail response system with rural development support. The hail damage harms farmers billions of forints a year, endangering production security and the existence of people living in agriculture. In 2015, the agricultural damage caused by the hail in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Bács-Kiskun and Csongrád counties exceeded HUF 10 billion. During the June-August 2016 period, there were also significant hail and damage, for example in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, on the northern shore of Lake Balaton or in the Tokaj wine region. However, it is wrong to think that hail only hits farmers and only farmers. The hail may cause significant damage to residential, municipal buildings or other assets. In 2015, the compensation paid in the agricultural compensation scheme for hail damage was nearly HUF 1 billion, while the compensation paid by insurance companies for agricultural ice damage was close to HUF 2.5 billion. It is therefore clear that it is appropriate to establish a national anti- hail system. Among the defence methods used in Europe, so-called soil generator hail relief has the highest professional support. Such a system is currently in place in certain areas of the country, in three southern Transdanubian counties, namely the counties of Baranya, Somogy and Tolna. The process used is to transfer the active substance into the cloud by evaporation, which reduces the size of the ice particles. Although this does not completely eliminate the formation of hail, the formed smaller ice particles melt near the ground, and the harmful effect of smaller ice grains is significantly lower, so in this sense we are not talking about an anti-creep system, but a hail risk reduction system. It is important to say that, on the basis of the previous position of the administrative authority and of the Commission, the transfer of silver iodide crystals used to the cloud does not pose a health or environmental risk. [[17 .30]] So far, the operational experience of the soil generator system in the three counties of South Transdanubia is absolutely positive. According to Nefela's calculations, the storm relief merger operating the system in South Hungary accounted for a ratio of expenditure and saved production value of 1:33 in 2014. The investment cost of developing a single national system is estimated at HUF 1.5-2 billion. The planned annual operating costs of the whole country-wide soil generator system, together with the costs of the meteorological service and the cost of materials, can be determined at HUF 1.5 billion gross. The main source of the operating costs is the Mkk. However, given the benefits of operating such a system for the entire national economy, it cannot be excluded that third parties can contribute to the operation of national hail relief. After the introduction of hail relief, a significant reduction in hail damage can be expected, resulting in a significantly lower compensation allowance for these damage events, so the use of the source is also a logical decision for the Compensation Fund. The launch of the system is planned for the beginning of the 2018 hail season, i.e. May 2018. Based on the draft, the drought changes otherwise Mkk. It's also a legal concept. This is intended to extend the definition to include drought damage caused by heat in the summer period. On the basis of the current drought definition, it is only on the basis of precipitation data that a reference to drought damage can be made. However, for the purpose of this amendment, if less than 25 mm of precipitation falls within 30 consecutive days and the measured temperatures exceed 31 degrees Celsius for at least 15 days, producers would be entitled to compensation. It is a positive amendment for farmers that instead of the current 15 per cent yield reduction limit, the draft only sets the 15 per cent yield reduction limit at the level of the damaged plant culture. This is covered by the resources available in the Compensation Fund. In addition to these, the law also contains other current technical amendments, which, we believe, are eligible, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the amendment as a whole with their votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gábor István Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my view, the domestic risk management system had the support of the entire Parliament at the time, the creation of this, and an initiative that was indeed an important initiative in ensuring the income stability of farmers living in rural areas. Obviously, the greatest risk to income stability that we can least influence is the risk of weather fluctuations, and this fund was created to reduce this risk somehow. Mr State Secretary said that the government's aim is to help the sector reduce its risks with new solutions and thus reduce its income volatility, which is very right. In this case, however, I must say that there is some shortage to be found in this proposal. The fact that the amount of unused resources left in the system, which has now been accumulated by HUF 24 billion in the compensation scheme, is intended to be used in such a way that there really is as much access to farmers as possible, is a very good objective, and we also strongly support the expansion of the anti-icing system, as this is a well-functioning system based on experience. Since the fund has enough money to make this possible now, to extend it to the whole country, it is therefore an initiative for the government to support. Of course, it can also be absolutely supported to change the rules that have caused this very large amount of money to accumulate, because these rules were too strict. In many cases compensation could not be paid because if one of the crops was taken by the ice and the other had a normal result, the average of which had already exceeded the statutory limit, and despite the significant crop lost in one of the crops, it could not be paid. This will now improve, and in this respect this is also a good proposal, which will make this risk management system more operational. What I have a feeling of lack is that the regulation of the European Union Fund for Rural Development would allow more, which the Hungarian government is obviously aware of, since it has also put in place a much broader instrument in the rural development programme based on an agreement with the European Union, since the measure of the rural development programme is about the possibility of financing the reduction of the fluctuations of income in the agricultural sector due to weather and other market, economic and, for example, price fluctuations on the basis of EU rules. If we take into account the fact that in this case HUF 24 billion is available, if we take into account the additional payments expected from the proposal and from Balázs Győrffy's keynote speech, then making ice compensation into a national programme will consume only HUF 1.5 billion of this fund, if we also take into account what additional payments are expected to be made and so require, we should also see that there is still plenty of resources left to manage not only the risks arising from the weather or to mitigate the use of this fund, but also to extend the margin to other income stabilisation instruments. I understand that this has been the subject of a professional consultation, and I understand that this has been the intention of the government, so I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary why this has finally been left out of the proposal, because it would now be absolutely timely if we were to apply this law, and I would like to extend the possibilities of the domestic risk management system to this possibility, which is otherwise provided by the Union. Whether I am going to take an initiative with this amendment, but if there is obviously an explanation for why this has not been included, or if there is some reason for EU consultation, then I would ask you to share it with the House, because if we can reach consensus on this and make this instrument available to domestic producers, then we can make the domestic risk management system even more effective, and I think that is what we all want it to do. By the way, what is already in the proposal is supported and will be supported by our vote. Once again, we would like to increase this to cover the risks arising from income fluctuations. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. [[17.40]]
u2017-02-21-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Global warming and climate change have made our weather completely uncertain, and at the most unexpected moment, spring frosts, summer autumn, autumn heat, winter clouds are pouring into our necks. It is clear to everyone that farmers need effective state aid, since they need to prepare for the unprepared. This is why it is particularly important to have a bill before this House, which aims at improving the agricultural compensation system. The task is simple: we need to give more money to more victims for more than one purpose, so I would like to stress that the rapid changes in the new times require the reform of the two-pillar agricultural risk management system, which was built in 2012, and that is what this bill aimed at. In order to maintain the country's food supply, the performance of agricultural trade and to ensure the livelihood of those living in agriculture, if the House adopts this bill, this system can handle it and help farmers in the damage caused by adverse weather phenomena, drought, inland water, hail, storm, rain, rainstorms, winter, spring and autumn frost, as well as agricultural floods, which are natural disasters. On this very basis, the KDNP faction supports the bill and calls on the Members of this House to support the proposed bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say in advance that Jobbik's faction can support the draft, because what is in it is forward-looking, and it will certainly benefit Hungarian agriculture, but we have to note a few things here. I am pleased that the Secretary of State mentioned both legs of the compensation scheme, and that it is also changing in the three main areas mentioned, namely the change in the ice protection system with the soil generator, the rate of production depreciation, which will allow for a wider application of compensation and the definition of drought with heroes. These are all forward-looking proposals, my problem is that we have said these things before, in the debate on the Compensation Fund, some of which were even formulated in the form of a concrete amendment - it would have been better if we had incorporated this into the legislation two or three years ago, I think many of the farmers concerned would have been much more satisfied with the system then. I would like to add another point, another possibility, another definition, to the definition of agricultural damage caused by migration. Believe me, especially from Csongrád County, but also from elsewhere, many people have indicated that when this phenomenon was at its peak, and here from the spring period up to the autumn period, it has caused serious problems for both fruit and vegetable producers that agricultural crops have been practically trampled and consumed by the masses that have passed through these areas, and that if it had not been their fault, the state should also contribute to this in some way. I have received many such requests, some of which I have forwarded to the wallet, but unfortunately there was no meaningful step beyond promises. We also do not understand the fact that if there is already this 1:33 rate of return for this ice recovery or risk reduction system, and it really only costs HUF 1.5-2 billion to build it at national level, then why have we waited for this to happen so far. I have only been in the Parliament since 2010, but I remember at least four or five meetings of the Agriculture Committee where this was a specific topic, every year during the ministerial hearings the question was raised, I do not know why we had to wait until 2017 for this to be possible or we could start implementing it at all. I also feel a contradiction between the fact that HUF 24 billion remained in the system, and in the meantime we receive a multitude of complainant emails, requests and letters from farmers. Somehow, in practice, they feel that their damage is justified, but they do not have access to the system, while HUF 24 billion is supposed to reduce these damage. I understand that the current amendments may have slightly improved this ratio, but it could have been done in time too, because many years have passed, and a number of family farmers have either been ruined or are on the brink of being stuck in this 24 billion forints, which would otherwise have been rightfully due to them. I would also be very curious to see in which law we will see that the government is dealing with other risks than weather risks, and how Brussels is dealing with these issues, because it is often covered here because, because of different EU directives and decisions, it is not possible to move forward on certain issues, while when we are interested outside or Jobbik asks these problems through, for example, the MEPs, the answer comes from Brussels that it is really up to the Hungarian party and that your negotiating attitude depends on how wide these options can be broadened. So if we could get information about this from the Secretary of State, we would very much thank you, because I think that this system would be complete, then it would be good if it really affected most of the farmers, and not just in terms of weather risks. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear narrowly interested professional circle! Let's talk about this for a second. Practically what could benefit from this legislative amendment, which could benefit, has already been said, that is what the pro-government contributions were all about, so let's talk about what will happen when there will be no support system, let's talk about what will happen after 2020, when the common agricultural policy may change and the support systems fundamentally change. I don't know if Secretary of State Czerván remembers when we first met in our lives: in the beginning of 2014 he came to the restaurant Notás to campaign with Sándor Fazekas and there he promised that Fidesz should be re-elected [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] The reason why Fidesz needs to be re-elected is how much terrible resources it uses to build irrigation systems and how much progress it makes to get closer to the EU average, such as irrigable plantations in Hungary. It was at the beginning of 14 and it was only in my nightmares that we were going to argue here one day. What's happened since then? You can see that the same process that the Medgyessys, Gyurcsányek, Bajnai Gordon sabotaged, is also sabotaged by the Orbán government, because it is what we are talking about most - and I think it is much more exciting than the detailed rules on compensation subsidies themselves - how the effects of climate change and the geographical and climate-related aspects of the Carpathian Basin are developing, in this case it is necessary to see whether they serve the preparation for these changes in any way - and the biggest problem is that, in my view, they do not. This system, which is being built now, will work as long as the European Union can provide resources to ensure its functionality and maintain the compensation system itself. But again, what happens after 2020? You would have the opportunity, virtually unlimited power to build models and landscape management models for which the level of exposure of this kind can be reduced. Obviously, I'm not talking about the ice damage, which can be reduced because even the Fidesz can't reduce it, but basically, let's just say some of the areas exposed to drought could be solved. On the Tisza, I don't know, they say that in the 1970s there was the same ice price as that which now floated, we are going through a huge flood, and we are basically talking about how much energy Hungary used to drain huge water to get this water down as soon as possible. In the summer, not a few months, we will talk about the drought and the need for water throughout the Great Plain, in the Tisza river basin. To this day, no action has been taken in order for water retention systems - and I am not thinking of right-wing dams across the rivers, not at all. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] - I'm thinking of those deadland rehabilitation landscape management models that, in the context of the further development of the Vásárhelyi plan, the very first Orbán Cabinet has already started, where are they? Why didn't the steps be taken to build and steal that infrastructure, whether by dead-water rehabilitation or water regulation, or by further developing the Vásárhelyi plan (Development in Jobbik's ranks). So sometimes you could do something useful while you're stealing, it's worth it, so you have to move a lot of land here, you can build artifacts - so why didn't you build your background? When we talk about exposure to drought and climate protection, why can't the water supply problems of the Danube-Tisza group be solved? [[17.50]] Why is it that with the water for which the Middle East is fighting war without further ado, our management strategy is to release more water from the country on a daily basis than it is coming in. When we talk about this and about the compensation system and the exposure, that is what we need to talk about in particular. Again, I ask: what will happen after 2020? State Secretary Czerván certainly knows more about the reform of the common agricultural policy than I do about where the processes are at present. What you can hear from the European Union or the Commission is not very appealing, because it is not possible to know whether the agricultural support system will ever be in this form in the European Union, which is now. All farmers who become dependent on support schemes will be ruined. When I listened to my fellow Earth Member speaking, who said that support should be provided to producers because of exposure, the question arises how this will be sustainable. Why is it good that we encourage people to plow ponds to this day because they receive the area payment? Why is it good to encourage people to maintain ploughing areas under 10 golden crowns and to try to keep arable areas that are completely inadequate? I will ask why from EU funds, from these billions, the irrigation systems that Minister Czerván spoke about in Túrkeve at Nótás Restaurant were not built. If we go out there and look around the world at the places where they farm with water, because they are pressed and forced to farm, from Africa to the Middle East, I have just seen a small film on Israeli drip system procedures, that the vaporizing effect is reduced, that the tiny water can be distributed even more, and that nothing happens in Hungary. Water isn't treasure here. As I said, many things can be said about the benefits of the legislative amendment, but I say once again that, as a representative of farmers' interests, the Chamber of Agriculture clearly also represents the Fidesz green baron system, since it is in their interest to establish as many support schemes as possible, because we confess that the granting of support from these agricultural support schemes to farmers of 10-20-30-50 hectares makes a very small contribution to their economic and profitable farming. Here are some concerns about the effectiveness of protection because, no matter how we look at the cost involved, in the last ten years, the total amount of compensation for damage to the ice has not been paid as much as it is going to be. It may be very good, and it may be that while this God is in heaven, he provides this system and security, but it must always be seen that if we analyse the cost of using resources with a profit analysis, how much it costs and how much it can benefit Hungarian producers, then we can certainly remain concerned whether this is the best way to help reduce the exposure of farmers affected by climate change. And if the question is whether these are the provisions, then my answer is that these are not the provisions. Ensuring water supply, addressing the problem of water retention, extracting and possibly re-seating low-production land, some foresting in the lowland, improving the efficiency of arable farming in fields with high golden crowns by solving soil protection, the technological spread of mulching agriculture, and a multitude of processes that could be used to ensure that agricultural production in the Carpathian Basin is not exposed to the overall negative effects of climate change. Overall, my main problem with this legislation is not what helps me, because it can certainly help us now. There is no doubt that the Chamber of Agriculture can be given a small mandate again, a small amount of money, obviously this is how the system works, this is fundamentally influenced by legislation, but I think that if the legislator's intention, as set out in the justification for this amendment to the Act on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production, would have room for manoeuvre for the government to make meaningful effects to this end. Overall, with the goals and some measures of the May Other Policy can agree, you can say that this is eligible. At the same time, it considers the measures to be largely insufficient, and to a large extent considers that the financial involvement of the Chamber of Agriculture can be treated as reservations, since it is a cadaver system from the outside, where money is practically being run-off. For this reason, right now, I'm thinking about moving towards the residence of our faction. And I would like to ask the representatives of the government with respect to the fact that, at this very short time, they would not find a more effective solution to better achieve the sustainability of Hungary's agriculture, in the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund and in the current name of the Rural Development Operational Programme. I think that any system that depends on subsidies and external resources, any system that is fundamentally linked to the European Union's support system, is a long-term threat to the survival of Hungary's agriculture. And if you look at all of this in the same way, with the privatization of agricultural land, how the farmers have been strengthened and how they are trying to destroy the small ones, there may be a way to turn Sándor Csányi into a model farm, and then they say that they will also give him the whole food supply, and besides Lőrincen Mészáros and Csányi, there will only be multinationals selling and producing food in Hungary. Obviously, there is this way, but I think that this is not in the interests of the nation, this is not in the interests of Hungary's future, and accordingly, there would be significantly more effective and better means to use these resources. I ask the representatives of the government to make it possible to examine this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-174	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, two-minute speeches are possible. I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to make rapid responses. First of all, I would like to straighten out some of the distortions that I thought were material errors. The income stability programme may be part of the rural development programme, so it is not a problem solving that can be achieved in the compensation scheme, but a programme that can be used under the rural development programme framework. I think that knowledge of the system's operation generated this speech. With regard to the existence of the common agricultural policy after 2028 I think that as we get closer to this period, we can become more and more relaxed. In such a short period of time, it is quite simply impossible to radically reform and launch such a large system, so I am very optimistic on my part, and I think that there will be a good chance of a common agricultural policy in the planning period 2020-28, and the Hungarian agricultural and processing industry will have a good chance of continuing to benefit from it. I think it is a mistake to compare the damage paid by insurers with the cost of operating the system, since we should not forget that the compensation paid by insurers does not correspond to the damage. Insurance companies will never pay as much damage as they have done, but will only pay some part of it. So I think that this comparison is a comparison of apples with pears. The reference to the covert financing of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy is strange because there is no decision at the moment. The rural development programme is open to tender until 15 April, as I understand it. There's no restrictions in this, and I'm brave enough to encourage everyone to do so. Thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Gábor István Harangozó. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Győrffy, I think that I have taken a constructive approach to this issue and I have said in a rather constructive way that there is indeed a possibility of supplementing the domestic risk management system with new instruments, if that is what the State is really trying to do. The current risk management system, as Mr Secretary said, has two pillars. EU legislation allows us to complement this with a third pillar, which would mean the creation of an income stabilisation instrument. This has the possibility of regulation in the EU, and there is the money for it, because, as it turns out, it is available, and it has also been included in the rural development programme, which is why it should not go through a complicated notification system if we want to do this. [[18.00]] We should simply write into this law, create this third pillar and create institutional conditions so that this new pillar can function. It seems to me that this is a matter of intent. And after there was a professional consensus in this to create such a pillar, I asked why this third pillar would not be introduced, but we would not complete this law with this possibility. For it would be justified, I repeat, because there is opportunity and money for it, and otherwise it would make a significant contribution to the predictability and income stabilisation of agricultural production. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-02-21-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, the written speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Let's start with the ice compensation system. It is welcome that we have finally reached the point where a soil generator protection system with a national extension or national coverage will be built. We should have done this much sooner, but let's not be dissatisfied, this is also a serious step forward. It is enough to think only of the rug bombing ice damage on 21 June last year, which not only destroyed Chenger in the vicinity of Rozsály, but also affected a large part of the North Great Plain, the South Great Plain, in Pest County, Bács-Kiskun County and in several places caused serious damage. I will come back to this during my speech, however, on how shamefully the so-called claims settlement operation or claims settlement procedures of the Compensation Fund are taking place, on the striking disproportion and on how incredibly bold and impertinent decisions are made. As far as the ice protection system is concerned, we know more techniques, more methods. Undoubtedly, what seems to be the most cost-effective, and without a doubt, the soil generator defense system is what is worth doing in several counties, but rather in national size. This is far beyond the potential of a farmer or even a larger farmer. What may fit into the possibilities of a family economy is, in good case, an application for it, the ice web protection system, although this is very difficult even in a tender, since it costs about HUF 5 million 700 thousand per hectare. This may even be somewhat protective of UV radiation, perhaps increasing the risk of fungusing, but it certainly has far more advantages than disadvantages. In any case, it's not a very widespread defense system, precisely because of its costs. I had the pleasure of making sure with my own eyes at the site a few hours after the disaster last year, in the case of plantations in the vicinity of the bellery and Chenger, where they were protected by an ice net, that in several places it was possible to see that there had been such a great deal of ice in the links and joints of the ice net that it was only a peasant's hair that the ice burden, because of the pressure, did not split these staples. If that had happened, it would have destroyed the trees as much as if they hadn't protected a square foot of this system. So very good, very nice, very efficient, but extremely expensive, and if an extreme amount of ice falls, then simply the weight of the ice can destroy it. So there are also weaknesses in this system. What I'm saying, on the basis of personal experience, is that it's relatively cost-effective at the level of a family economy, the so-called ice cannon system. Here, we are not putting chemicals into the airspace, but high pressure air - perhaps now I am thinking of the street images of 2006 in a strange way - which, in the direction of mass dispersal, slightly shifts the rain clouds, the hail clouds, simply in a kitchen language, from the area to be protected, and thus a defined system provides protection within a radius of a few hundred meters. For the record, this here, in the Csenger area, caused some alarms along the border, because some nationalist Romanians thought that we were installing heavy artillery batteries near the state border. Because, indeed, it pushes the compressed air out every seven seconds, and then it really rivals the sound of heavy artillery taracks and can be heard many miles away. In any case, there was no mention of Jobbik installing heavy artillery on the border in some kind of revisionist effort. So this is the ice cannon protection system, which, by the way, guarantees the protection of 5-15 hectares at cost of more than 40 thousand euros with relatively high efficiency. But that doesn't go without a grant, I'll add. But what happened last June 21st, and what happened in our neighborhood earlier, and it was just in the luck of the particular producer that his garden fell in or out of it, there is no typical case of medicine against death. There the ice net defense system was just as good, the ice cannon defense system didn't understand anything at all, because, unlike the weather phenomenon called supercell, a traditional ice cannon defense system is virtually powerless. Now, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that this is why the soil generator system is important, because it is undoubtedly the most expensive, but the most effective, and it is very welcome that this will be achieved from public and/or possibly EU support frameworks. But now I would like to draw the attention of the people here, and in particular I would ask my fellow Member, Attila Tilki, to intervene as a pro-government Member in finally installing such a defence system, if they do not start, because it has already been completed in one or two counties, then we will try to build it not from the west to the east, but from the east to the west. Let us not feel in Szatmár again, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County and in the northeast that we are the owners of the sixteenth-order citizens of this country. We pay taxes in the same way, we contribute to public burdens in the same way, then we would also like to make a little more of our share of the opportunities at regional level. Of course, farmers in Western Hungary also need it, or farmers in Central Hungary, all Hungarian farmers, but we would like it to start in our area, taking into account our significant difficulties. And to which I would also urge Attila Tilki to pay close attention to cross-border cooperation. Because it is not according to political, but expert opinion that it is precisely our area, the Satmar region, which is particularly in need of where there is an increased, high importance for us to cooperate with the coastal or Transcarpathian areas, at least 20-30 kilometers deep in these areas, because if these soil generator systems are not installed there, then the same eastern tips where we are located will suffer as if the soil generator system had not been built at all. I would also like to make it very clear to the Secretary of State that this may be the simpler with the Romanian party because of the membership of the European Union, and we must also contact the Ukrainian party, because if these areas across the border but in the proximity of the border are not covered by the soil generator protection system, then, let me not say any uglier, we have given that certain one a slap. And billions of forints will be wasted, and farmers there will suffer the same damage, as if there were no ice protection system at all. So it won't work effectively without it, at least not in the northeast or east end of the country. And as for the operation of the Compensation Fund in a slightly wider extension or extension of interpretation here, well, please, that's a disaster. I don't know if I'm gonna call it a tragic comedy, or just another political scam. But, starting with the end of the story, the story is about the current rules or at least the application of the rules, that if the farmer is damaged by a few million or several tens of millions of dollars, then in good case a few tens or a few hundred thousand forints will be paid for him or nothing. If you doubt my words and consider it an opposition speech for political gain, I would be very happy to give you a decision from Csenger, the Csenger neighbourhood, about the area of Matthew Salka. I'm afraid there are quite a few of them. I am talking about farmers, ladies and gentlemen, who have paid their contribution to the Compensation Fund, they have fulfilled all their obligations, and yet, in good case, if they are given a sum of one to two hundred thousand forints, it is difficult to call compensation, not even with the greatest goodwill, which is not enough for anything. I would also like to emphasise that these farmers do not want to buy A8 Audi and do not want private property, they want to build luxury properties. They need as much help from the Compensation Fund as they need for the production and production of the next year's rent. That's how they survive. So we are not talking about luxury investments and over-claims, we are talking about excessive demands, we are talking about just the amount of money we need to survive. In this respect, it would be very nice to look at the farm insurance house as well. Because if you look at a simple agricultural insurance offer, I'm going to say a few damage events, winter frost, spring frost, drought damage, fire, storm damage, hailing as an insurance risk. It's worth checking out a prize calculator. If the storm damage is included by the producer in the range of damage events, it increases the insurance premium to an extreme extent, which is supposed to be 65 percent. But in fact, I'm talking about the payback, not the payback, so it's really a special payback - so I'm telling you - as a result of a system, it's a 45-percent premium, which is inexorable to them, if you look at buying-in prices and sales opportunities, market opportunities. [[18.10]] In other words, from the buying-in prices we receive either with our fruits or with our vegetables, with a premium payment system of 45 percent or 65 percent of agricultural premiums, the so-called self-insurance part of the farm which they have to pay is not possible. What will the producer do? Typically, it is either under-insured, or it may limit this possibility to just one or two damage events. And how shamefully insurance companies act, let me give you a specific example. If I exert myself, I can collect even more, but now there is one that has come to us from a specific producer's complaint about the spring frost. The reason I'm saying this is because if we can filter the hail with this, taking into account cross-border cooperation, or reduce the probability of occurrence to nearly zero, it's still there, as just mentioned, right, the spring frost, the winter frost, the storm, the fire, the drought and all that. Say, with an appropriate irrigation system, even the occurrence of drought damage, the extent of damage caused by drought damage can be significantly reduced, but there is still the biggest nightmare I think is the spring frost. Perhaps with wind machines, other special machines already used in Western Europe, this can be filtered to minus 8 degrees Celsius, but on the one hand they are very expensive, on the other hand they are not even known here in Hungary, and without tender support, neither a small or medium-sized economy can obtain such spring-freezer reduction equipment. The next step would be to do so, as spring frost is another of the most dangerous enemies of agriculture and producers, so that they may also develop a larger funding scheme in this respect. I know you have it, I know you have it, and I know you think that nothing is ever enough for the farmers, but this, which makes sense, should be filled with more money. How do insurance companies get out? I just stopped here. In principle, the insurance package of the insurance company indicated that it would convert to spring frost damage if the temperature dropped below minus 2 degrees Celsius in the given area. It was minus 2.6 degrees Celsius or minus 3.5, whatever, the farmer reported it properly. After a month or two, the negative, impertinent response came that it was not interesting to know how much the temperature was at the time in his garden, where the spring frost damage occurred, what was interesting is that at an official meteorological temperature point 15 kilometres away, or at official checkpoint or measuring point, only minus 0,8 degrees Celsius, so the claim is not justified. Well, on that basis, it's completely unnecessary to get insurance, and it's completely unnecessary to build trust in the insurance company. What can we do about it? Because these problems are also known for the other types of damage, that with all kinds of forced explanations, the insurance company stands out from the obligation to comply in the majority of cases by playing out farmers, holding on to the usual small prints. Of course, people will not pay an insurance premium of millions of HUF per year. Because there is no obligation to think about car liability insurance or casco or home insurance; here the insurance fee is many million forints a year, because insurance companies provide about 10-13 percent of the estimated crop value. Think of it as 50 million forints of income in a small family farm, let's say, in a few or 10 to 20 hectares of fruit plantations, it is not an unimaginable amount of income. Let's just calculate 10-12 percent of this, just how much it costs, what an unbearable burden it puts on farmers. Especially if the insurance company's gonna come out with all kinds of tricks when it's due. The insurance fee is cashed in, but when it's supposed to hold up, it hits the farmers. Well, there is a way to defend against this, even if it goes beyond the current proposal, by narrowing down the grounds for the insurance exclusion that justify the indecent, illegal and otherwise completely immoral, and, above all, unethical rescue or exemption of the insurance undertaking. So to reduce this leeway for insurance companies - of course, this is a real freedom fight for the current insurance markets in terms of lobbying insurance companies. But let's just say that the bank and the insurance company are the last two forms of company that need to be sorry or feared. Because if they normally put themselves there, they fulfil their contractual obligations, what usually happens is that these foreign-interested insurance companies don't bring home seven bags of money at the end of the year, but only five or six bags of money to their owners, their owners, while otherwise it would be possible to provide compensation to farmers in a more fair way. The rules of the current Compensation Fund are therefore no help at all. If you look at the fact that there is a production value of HUF 1600-1900 billion per year in a gardening sector, and there is an insurance fund of approximately HUF 10-20 billion per year, and an average yield loss of HUF 200-400 billion per year, and I look at the fact that from the loss of HUF 200-400 billion, or according to what you just said, that the Compensation Fund can only help up to HUF 24 billion, even if it is used with the greatest good intentions, most legitimately, for the benefit of farmers, in good case only 2-5 percent of the damage can be paid. That is not enough for anything, Mr Secretary of State, so it would also be worth taking further action on the Compensation Fund, on agricultural insurance, on premiums and on the fully justified squeeze of insurers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-02-21-181	Thank you very much. With my fellow bell-ringing Member, by the way, perhaps surprisingly, but we agree. The income stabilisation system, I think, may not be eligible without necks, but it is definitely a debateable proposal. So I would certainly not sweep it off the table, but my fellow Member and I are debating that I do not think it should be handled in this system. This is a separate solution to be dealt with, and I think it is worth having a professional debate in order to introduce it and, if so, in what way. To Mr Abbot: in addition to the soil generator system, another test has been carried out, this is the operation of the rocket system, which, based on the statistical data I know, can mean a fairly accurate and good defense, but it is extremely expensive. Typically, it is only used in high-high-value vineyards where it is considered insufficient and introduced in addition to the soil generator system due to double insurance. Obviously, this is a debate that is good or bad, based on the data I know, otherwise the soil generator system is better at a price-value ratio. From the point of view of the construction, where it starts, in the west or in the east - knowing the timetable for the launch and implementation of the tender - I assure you that it is completely irrelevant, since if the application is submitted now, by 15 April, by the end of 2017, the deployment period is expected to start at the beginning of the year 2017, which is not at risk by hail; so, by 1 May 18 the reality of the hail will appear, it should be operational throughout the country. By the way, the Austrians are already interested in cross-border cooperation, which I know. So also in the west, due to the western wind direction, it may be more interesting, not in every case, but typically, so it looks like there's going to be a neighbourhood.
u2017-02-21-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I can't give you two minutes, Congressman, unless you ask for a proper speech, I can give you the floor, but I can't give you two minutes. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki. Here you go, in a normal time frame.
u2017-02-21-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Abbot's speech. So it's not from the devil you've mentioned, not at a level that we've started, and even at the request of the Satmar Germans, we're dealing specifically with the request of how to install it across the border. And the Hungarian government has announced the Hungarian-Ukrainian economic development programme, which also has agricultural legs, and it is also mentioned how we can extend it. As far as the ice cannon issue is concerned, only that in relation to the very serious damage to the ice in the summer, which affected both of us, your place of residence and your parents' residence, my area, the locals say that the main reason for the damage to the forest back of the last two years is that the ice cannon is being used continuously in Csenger. [[Dr. István Apáti: I have the responsibility!]] I'm not a farmer, like you or your father, but you have to admit that we're really trying to solve this problem together. [[18.20]] I am pleased that there was a relatively correct comment on both MSZP and Jobbik, but in connection with the sentences that Sallai R. Benedek used in his usual style, and with his exposure to water retention, I would like to say that I would like to draw attention to an interpellation of the Szabó Rebeka coal baser, when he attacked the public work programme by cleaning up or repairing ditches for the habitat of cradlefish and other organisms in the public work programme. So we actually feel the settlements that live there, that yes, this is important, but with which LMP is attacking us now, it attacked us with just the opposite in the previous cycle. Obviously, Sallai R. Benedek was not a member of the House during the previous term, but I would like to draw the attention of his honourable fellow Member to consider what he has to say from such an aspect. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-02-21-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr István Apáti for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-185	Thank you. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Congressman Tilki, I just want to tie up all the loose ends, and as a good goalie in football, I'm gonna lock the nails so he doesn't accidentally kick the ball under me and next to me, 'cause then I wouldn't be able to sleep either on this night or on the next one. I know you didn't say it, or you didn't think of it, but you didn't make that up. It is in a very, very bad state of professional or mentality that someone who makes up a Member of Parliament with such a thing. We are slowly getting to the point where shaman dances will have to be made, where the rain clouds go and where they go. Let's go over it again. The ice cannon is a small, local protection limited to an absolute given plantation, with a few hundred meters radius that can have such a mass-control, cloud-dispersing or shifting effect, to put it very simply. But it's not like he's capable of moving the Csenger towards the Forest, which is miles or even more, tens of kilometers in order to push the clouds, the hail clouds, onto the forest back. It's not like that, it's total professional and physical nonsense. [[For signal:]] Yeah, I know, it's physical nonsense. And a few years ago, they said that there's no rain and there's drought because the ice cannons are in the area. By the way, there are several farmers in the area with ice cannons, much larger family farms than our small family farm, so that there is no misunderstanding. By the way, you can see some of it in my property statement, we only have 32 hectares of intensive apple planting, three plantations in three different areas. Two of which are protected by ice cannons, one by God. [[Dr. Attila Tilki's intervention:]] Okay, I know, Congressman Tilki, I didn't take that as an attack, and I don't hear that for the first time, but it was new that the ice protection system at the bell was responsible for the drought, and now it's the movement of hail clouds. That's why we had to tie this up so we could get it straight. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that there is neither a connection between the absence of rain nor the movement of hail clouds, nor there has been, nor will be. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-02-21-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr György Czerván, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-02-21-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you all very much for your active involvement. I didn't want to interrupt the debate by two minutes, but as we got used to in the agricultural themes, there was a meaningful, basically professional debate - with some political edge - and I thank you very much for the comments and opinions that have been made here. Allow me to thank you for basically supporting the amendment of the law on the agenda. I will try to respond to other comments, but there is a consensus in itself that what we have here is fundamentally forward-looking and eligible to amend the Compensation Act, but obviously I will not avoid critical comments either. My fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, was also fundamentally positive. It is true that the system can be criticized, and I have said in my expo that I think it works fundamentally well, but the story is that we want to make it even better, and in this case I am already saying that we are looking forward to concrete offers and comments on the proposals. I would like to say that there are not many such systems in Europe, in the European Union. Maybe the French look the most alike, there's this two-pillar part. In other Member States, either one or the second pillar is more powerful, but such a complex system as Hungary is, I tell you, does not work very well in the EU. Congressman Gábor Bellozó also said fundamentally positive, although he said that he had a sense of absence. Forints 24 billion were available after the deposits in 2016, this number was also used by several people. This will be about 5 billion in the amount that will be paid after the 16 settlements, so we will start with 19 in the year. I said it would happen in the next few days. These payments shall always be made by 31 March following the reference year. We're trying to get the Treasury to do this as soon as possible. It was also mentioned that the rules were too strict and that is why this relatively large sum was accumulated. In this regard, the,, is a relatively important word, because if an extreme weather event had occurred this year, which is very difficult to prepare for, and a single compensation system will not handle the extreme, the really extreme conditions, then this money would not have been enough. The brakes were really too tight, so we're gonna lighten it up. It can be argued that a third pillar or an income stabilisation pillar may be included in the compensation law, which deals with the management of natural and weather risks, which would essentially tighten the mitigation of market risks, or another law is needed to do so. Obviously, the lawyers could handle this either way, but that's not the point. We have proposed a system of income stabilisation, and under the rural development programme, Brussels has approved this. It wasn't that long ago, but it was approved by Brussels. The Ministry of Agriculture is ready with the concept of how this can be operated, otherwise I note in parentheses, this would work in the same way as the Compensation Fund, only a income stabilisation fund would be created, and on the basis of similar voluntary and mandatory payments, to which the state would also add resources, I say, would be very similar. At present, the Prime Minister's Office - the EAFRD matters are at the Prime Minister's Office - is where they deal with the issue, there are discussions, and if so, we are very happy to bring this instrument to Parliament, either by us or by the Prime Minister's Office. Just because everyone who lives in agriculture or works for agriculture felt the milk crisis, the dairy crisis or the crisis in the pig market, or even the prices for buying fruit, so in any case, I also think that such a system of income stabilisation is necessary personally, the FM too. Even because there is such a system within the European Union, but it is very, very difficult to operate. The good example is that milk prices have practically increased long ago when the EU decision was taken and Hungary received relatively little support. Besides, there are also other tools - I don't know by heart now, I didn't bring that list - for the purchase of other tools, natural damage prevention tools. I don't remember the amount, as if I remember 5-6 billion forints. From the ice net... - what kind of technology it is, you can argue about, it has to be discussed professionally, I don't know what technology it is to buy, but it will be. This will appear this year, sometime in the middle of the year, so there will be specific support for producers not only to wait for a national solution, but also to make individual efforts to protect their products from natural damage. But thank you very much for your support to the MSZP, as well as to the KDNP, and also to the Earth Congressman. [[18.30]] On behalf of Jobbik, Mr Zoltán Magyar basically expressed his support. It's true, everything could have been done before. The fact that we have now come this far is basically the reason why we are moving forward step by step. Since we introduced the system, and, as I said, the Hungarian model in the European Union is quite unique, we brought it to Parliament every year, and every year, with a similar consensus, we made some positive changes based on practical experiences from the field, because here the comments felt that not philosophers made the proposals - not hurt them - but, in practice, representatives living near the countryside and agriculture gave their opinions. That's one thing. The second is that we could not take a bigger step, for example, the regulation at sectoral level could not be brought here because first money had to accumulate in the fund. So if we push everything out, then the problem is, if there's extreme damage in the next three years in a row. With regard to the damage caused by migration, I recall that a decision was made with an FM regulation, a flat-rate subsidy to farmers against a de minimis framework. I can't tell you all the numbers by heart right now, but you're very welcome that if there's a demand, I can get you this. So those who announced it to the municipality, or locally, through the villager or the chamber, so these producers received a flat-rate compensation. I also think it is very important that we are talking about compensation, compensation law. This must not be confused with compensation. So it's already in his name, and the maximum is 80 percent for EU rules, which is further reduced, so that if he doesn't have an insurance contract, he'll fall by half. So, unfortunately, there are such barriers, but once again, we still have one of the best systems in the Union. The income stabilisation fund has also been mentioned here, and I have already talked about it. Mr Sallai is no longer here; he did not express his thoughts directly about the amendment of the Compensation Act. What will happen after 2020? The thing is, whoever says anything, including myself, is just guessing. At the end of 2017, the Commission will come up with the proposal, and the draft budget will be clarified sometime at the beginning of the year. It is obvious that certain things can be presumed about what changes and what doesn't change. I think that the common agricultural policy - and this is good news for Hungary - and not only for agricultural people, but also for everyone - will survive, but obviously there will be changes. In the beginning of the budget, the UK, the second largest net contributor, has to face other societal challenges - I am talking about the EU budget - that someone has to pay, I am thinking about migration here. Whether it is at EU level or at Member State level, it will cost money, and it follows that if the EU budget is reduced, there have already been demands for this in the previous CAP reform, obviously the paying countries want to reduce the payment, and this is understandable from their point of view, but Hungary, as one of its largest net beneficiaries, and, above all, almost 40 percent of our EU funds are coming through the common agricultural policy, so it is in our interest. It would be in our interest to maintain the status quo. What the reality of this is is a different thing, and we are obviously fighting for it in the debates. It is also certain - and this is good news perhaps for Mr Sallai, but perhaps also for others - that the price of continuing the common agricultural policy should remain at some level agricultural and rural development subsidies, which, by the way, I say once again, is good not only for farmers, but for everyone, for every Hungarian citizen, because we are all food consumers, and without these subsidies, food prices would be relatively higher than now; so I think that the price will be that environmental and sustainability aspects will be further strengthened. But we'll see about that. With regard to irrigation, it is a 50 billion EAFRD resource that is available. There is no doubt that it would be appropriate to modify its conditionality. As far as I know, there is such an effort, because for now my last information was that there was a demand for some HUF 15 billion, and obviously this has to be examined here. Another topic that has been discussed several times before is that once within the EU, within the common agricultural policy, aids, a significant part of direct aid, such as basic aid, such as greening, is clearly determined by the number of people receiving aid, the size of whose territory it is. And this regulation applies equally to everyone from the Queen of England to the Secretary of State to the master of Szabolcs. Whether it's good or not, you can argue about it. There was the problem of degressivity, which we have introduced, which is why we have received at least as many attacks as if we had done the opposite, but for now this system is working, and it is determined by the size of the area and its use. And that the LMP will abstain is already a significant step forward, I think. He may have been the most critical representative of the Father, but he said a lot of things that I can agree with, by the way. I have the data here, so I don't read it, so in every respect - I usually give lectures on damages and damage, the actual damage - Szabolcs-Szatmár county has suffered the most damage, natural damage, especially in terms of ice. This is true both for the area and for damage reports, for apples, for everything. So, if this is technically feasible - I don't know about this - that this investment will start from east to west, and more people have said it here across the border, so in my opinion it can be handled, but obviously the Balaton Highlands have the right to say so, because there is also a rip-off of the grapes, that yes, but it wouldn't be a problem if the Central Transdanubia started. But in this regard, Szabolcs is unfortunately in any way in an,, fancy place - I have just said this in quotes - in terms of damage. So I know, I was in the neighborhood around Chenger, I know the complaints of the people there. By the way, it is the aid scheme that has been an instrument other than the EAFRD instruments, FM has this, and in the case of production-related aid, we are introducing an amendment from this year to fruit plantations to encourage farmers to move towards modern plantations. I think that would be good for everyone. In the new scheme, they are expected to receive double area payments - I am talking about a production-linked title - compared to unconventional plantations. If I remember correctly, there will be about 150,000 forints per hectare, 70,000 forints for this subsidy. So we have such tools. Insurance companies have come up. Back in the day, we sat down with the banks to negotiate, and then there was this operation called the freedom fight. So I think, for our part, we can sit down with the insurance companies, please. Perhaps it would be appropriate to invite representatives of large agricultural insurance companies to a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and then these life-like things and concrete things could be pushed there. For my part, I don't see any problems. The other thing that we can do is help you out with direct subsidies, marketing-like subsidies, which, for example, are for apples... [[Dr. István Apáti: You'd need a market for that!]] Well, the Russian market, yes, we agree on that, in fact. It has also been said that I specifically wrote that we think, the government, that nothing is enough for the Hungarian farmer. I never thought of it like that, otherwise I don't think the government did either. But I think it's true, and let's look at ourselves, you don't even have to nod that the Hungarian farmer never says that things are going better, because if they go well, he'll listen, or if they go better, he'll shut up if there's trouble, he'll come. [[Dr. István Apáti: Silence is gold!]] Obviously, there are historical reasons for this, there are historical reasons, at least since the Turkish times, but let's leave it at that. So, once again, we look forward to suggestions. What percentage of the compensation compared to the production value is obviously obtained from where: increase the compensation contribution? There are also limits to public contributions, because EU rules will come into play immediately. [[18.40]] So, after the yield value of a fruit plantation is already higher, the whole calculation value, the end result is higher in this sense, let's say, compared to a grain, obviously the investment is higher. So it's very complicated, but proportional to the yield values. But I'll tell you again, if there's a specific proposal, we'll be happy to take it, and I promise you, with our experts, we'll look at it and examine it. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention and for your support, as promised. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-02-21-188	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, István Ikotity, Member of the European Parliament, LMP:, Teachers without paying. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2017-02-21-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the previous cycle, the government created the so-called agoras. The investment of the Agora programme was made from more than HUF 20 billion of funding in cities with county rights. In many cases, these new types of Community institutions were created after the transformation of cultural and cultural centres built decades ago, or the former conference centres and youth offices were merged. They've created countless new services, developed so far. We can also say that agoras form a kind of bridge between science and young people or the wider public. In addition to teaching, they carry out scientific education, they also provide a community experience. They bring research and development basic researches closer to interested career-choice students, raise interest in natural sciences, make science digestable for both small and large. It is no exaggeration to call them a deficiency institution, as the government called them a few years ago when they were created. The goal is important and noble. But if we are talking about such important institutions, how could the government forget about the employees who work in it, who are often teachers? In their case, they found shamefully low wages. Their situation is another example of a large number of people being left out of the government's wage increase. The government's wage increase in the area of education has remained one-sided and incomplete, as it has been left out, for example, of the agoras and of the workers working here. So how does the government feel that scientific knowledge can be disseminated effectively and effectively, bringing science closer, helping to provide career choices or community experience? Both the appreciation of staff and the achievement of these objectives are damaged by these extremely low salaries. There is, of course, an exception in Győr or Debrecen, where these institutions receive external funding and external support, we can be pleased with these, but I think that in cases where the local government or government can count on their support at most, they are heavily underpaid. In the language of numbers, what does that mean? At best, the salary of employees is hardly more than 100-120 thousand forints. Imagine a teacher who currently works as an agora researcher giving a lecture to prospective physicists, engineers, or medical students. How attractive can you make scientific research careers for these young people when asked how much they earn and how much they can support their family? You have to answer that by saying 120,000 forints? How is it possible to open the door to culture and science for young people who visit them, when young people will feel that we are certainly not going to work here, because the science and research career on the state line is so underpaid that it is impossible to make a living? Does the government despise these people that much? The answer is that there is no way to lead the way. They created something that doesn't work well. The Fidesz-KDNP government may have built up these institutions with a lot of money, but it has not provided adequate resources for effective and effective work. The pitiful wage situation of workers in agoras also shows how side-sided the government's education wage increase is. Pedagogist-educated people have been left out of the teacher's career model, and they also stay out of the wage increase. The minimum wage of the skilled worker - net HUF 107 thousand - may be higher than that of the workers working in the agoras. But it is also unfair that a teacher's degree in the service of science and knowledge earns far less than a cashier in a supermarket, not underestimating them, of course, but this is an unacceptable situation. It must be said that there is a wage crisis in Hungary. The government's wage-raising policy is mostly fire-fighting in different sectors, it gives a little bit here, it gives a little bit, so as not to cause any more trouble, while creating extremely unfair situations between employees with the same status and the same qualifications, depending on the institution in which they work. There is only one example of this: in a school, a teacher who teaches natural sciences brings home a net salary of HUF 200-210 thousand if he works in an agora with the same degree, he receives HUF 100-120 thousand. The question is, when does the government handle this injustice? When are you going to appreciate the people on the field of education and science? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-02-21-190	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:46 p.m.]]
