u2017-05-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. The 20th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Did you apply for a pre-meeting speech from the MSZP Group? Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today is the World Day for International Freedom of the Press. Unfortunately, we can only remember this concept on this day, unfortunately not at present. The Hungarian freedom of the press has been included in the history books, but it is the basis of democracy, a measure of the rule of law. Many people can ask questions, forgive what they are and would be right, because as democracy, the rule of law goes hand in hand with the freedom of the press, dictatorship, autocracy, the illiberal state, controlled democracy - whatever we call it today - also goes hand in hand with the propagandaist party press and XXI. In the first century, it was with the press bought and operated by the government oligarchs. Some of them remain independent or opposition Jews, of course they are sometimes banned from parliament if they are too critical, but that is all - today in Hungary. It is not worth mentioning the public media that pushes government propaganda, the news-false MTI in a monopolistic situation, and the media authority that acts as the Prime Minister's loyal pinch dog. The Royal TV, the Foamworks, is doing their job, and the authorities are covering it. But what about commercial media? One of the biggest online news portals, the Origo, was killed and then bought out by the Matolcsy clan. The second largest commercial television in the country was purchased by a government commissioner from loans from public banks. The Vs news portal was purchased by a company linked to the Cousin of the Central Bank President, which was supported by central bank foundations with HUF 600 million. Last time, the genius gas mechanic, Lőrinc Mészáros, broke into the media market: he bought the county papers. But the acquisition of existing ones was not enough, from nothing suddenly became Lokal, Hungarian Times, Ripost, 888, all filled with billion-dollar state ads. They also add what is expected: Goebbels, sorry, rogan propaganda, and now the Russian in Putin. For the record, Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, once rushed away from the Justice Committee because he claimed he did not want to keep a lady, namely Mary Schmidt waiting. The government commissioner's company then bought the Watcher a day later. That's how we do it these days. Of course, all of this became necessary only after the Hungarian Nation, Metropol, Chain Bridge Radio, News TV, and the rest of it had been removed from the circle, because the Prime Minister and his biggest oligarch had fallen out. It is interesting to know how the Hungarian people feel about this. According to the representative research carried out by the Publicus Institute at the end of 2016, 60 percent of Hungarians believe that freedom of the press is very limited and that public media are one-sided. At the same time, 87 percent of respondents said that it would be important for the press to be free. In summary, the Hungarian people want free press, but in reality they do not think it is because of the government. It seems that full reeducation has not yet led to success, because they perceive reality, we could say that they still believe what they hear with their deaf ears and see with their blind eyes. And what do you think of the Hungarian freedom of the press beyond our borders by the deaf-eared and blind-eyed, of course, Soros-bender company only in the last year? The US Ambassador, who we do not think is praising his own opinion, also expressed his concern that media ownership in Hungary is becoming increasingly concentrated. As the market shrinks, government subsidies, government advertising costs distort the overall picture in the media business. According to the report of the International Federation of Human Rights Organizations, the Hungarian government has increased control of the media and restricts freedom of information. According to Freedom House, we are one of the states where the freedom of the press has deteriorated most in the last year. We have become the hosts of the European Union, namely the last in the EU, even Romania and Bulgaria have preceded us. According to the OSCE electoral observation group, the last parliamentary election was largely unfair because the press operated biasedly and had a government propaganda. During the decades of communism, power has always said that there is democracy and freedom of the press. That's what the government propaganda was doing, just like today. Obviously, Mr. Secretary of State, one of the three, is about to tell us that it's never been so good, but it's the socialist governments and, of course, the Soros tenants. It's just that everyone knew it wasn't like that. And you can see it. You know it today. And such systems are doomed to failure. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-03-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-03-3	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Freedom of the press and opinion is one of the important values of Hungarian democracy. I think we can agree on that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: So far, yes.]] Let me tell you that the Hungarian press is quite diverse. In Hungary, there are 6079 printed 3384 Internet press products, 453 TV and 196 radio services. Hungarian citizens can therefore choose on a wide scale when it comes to orientation. [[Zoltán Haughty: MTI news!]] Everyone can find writings, reports, appropriate to their taste, world view. You were just talking about a piece of the press, obviously for political reasons. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: That's a big one! Dr. Gergely Bárándy, 99 percent.]] It wasn't always like that. I didn't really hear left-wing concerns when there was almost little or no medium in Hungary that would have delivered right-wing, civic opinions. But I didn't hear your concern when your troubles published fake videos or faked a Teller letter. I still didn't hear your voice. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It wasn't us. Intercoms.]] Honourable Congressman, Given its ownership background, the Hungarian media is diverse [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and the fact that there is an ever more intense market competition between individual operators, between owners [[Zoltán Grimlock: This is not a competition!]] But for his part, the government doesn't want to be in this race, but only hopes that it will. [[Defiance from the benches of Jobbik, MSZP and independents.]] that this competition will ultimately benefit citizens both in terms of quality and in terms of news competition. Interestingly, you don't mention it, you also referred to advertisements, that the government, you know very well, advertises in hundreds of places, as opposed to left-wing governments, which only advertised in a few places, and the government also advertises in media [[Zoltán Pride: All the Butchers!]] Which, by the way, are far-reaching government critics. Interestingly, when these government critical media accept ads and the problem is, the left is critical. We can remember the attacks that ATV received for taking in government ads. [[9.10]] Honourable Congressman, However, if there is a phenomenon on which it is worth taking precautions, it is a question of foreign influence. You feel that because you referred to it in your speech. In addition to funding political activists, some foreign billionaires would also try to control media and distort the public in their own interests. There are indications of this in Hungary, and this phenomenon goes far beyond discussions on the usual press market. It goes well because this phenomenon also affects the issue of Hungarian independence. Honourable Congressman, The MSZP often uses the word "propaganda". This is certainly because if there is an expert in propaganda, it is certainly the Hungarian Socialist Party, because you were the ones who stated in the publication that a given double citizenship would cost Hungarians from abroad up to 170 thousand or 240 thousand forints. Congresswoman Bangóna, sitting next to you, knows this, because she was even on the posters, on these propaganda posters. You were the ones who promoted the visit fee in kill ads, even though you knew very well that this visit fee was rejected by millions of Hungarians; and it was your government who referred to the pannonian puma at a time when the economy fell by 7 percent when unemployment doubled and the public debt climbed above 80 percent. And by the way, it was your prime minister who, in his speech in the autumn, spoke about, quote, preparing the leaders and publicists of the most influential newspapers for what to expect. We know what the country could have expected - they almost destroyed the country. Under these circumstances, in the case of freedom of the press and propaganda, we do not accept lectures from the MSZP under any circumstances. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, He also applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group on Stolen Education! Mr Ákos Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are many ways to decide, try to decide whether a policy is fair or not. Some say that there can't be a fair policy; we don't believe it. However, perhaps one of the most important criteria is what he wants, whether he wants to fool the people, or whether he wants the people to learn, to teach the people. Do politics want to brainwash, or do they want education, good education, brainwashing or education; do politics want government propaganda, or do politics want good education? We've heard a lot of the phrase over the last few weeks that when there's work, there's everything. That's not true. Work alone is not enough, on the one hand we need good jobs, but there are good jobs when there is knowledge. So I'd say if there's knowledge, there's everything. All his resources, a fair policy, all the resources of a fair governance should be invested in education. On the other hand, there is a very interesting phenomenon and there is a very sad, rather sad or tragic phenomenon in education in these years. There is a lot of money coming in from the European Union, hundreds of billions of forints could be spent on this, but we do not see the development in this, but the money is seen by the government that can be stolen. There are many sides to education, and today I would like to talk about higher education. We know that universities have been in a bad situation over the last decades, and this is where heaven would be, in comparison, but most of the money is being stolen. I would like to focus on one university right now: the government's Janichar Training School, the National University of Public Service, where the European Commission has made its findings in recent months and has made extremely serious findings. If we are to say very refined, you are saying that there have been serious over-pricing of EU projects, now in the case of EU projects, not earlier than now, in the case of brand-new projects. They also said that there is a lot of unnecessary expenditure when it is pointless to buy something; for example, billions of forints are spent on rentals at a university where the building was renovated and new halls were created for 30 billion forints. In fact, there is a finding that twice you take the same money from the university. I would also like to say a few specific points, and if anyone responds, obviously, Mr Secretary of State will answer, because the Minister never comes in on such questions, and I ask the Secretary of State to respond to the specifics and not to give any questions or answers. For example, it is very interesting that 4 371 939 023 HUF has been added to programs, computer devices and programs. It ends at 23 forints, which is extremely interesting. When the public procurement was launched, it was estimated how much they would receive or how much they would receive the offer, and it was HUF 4 371 939 023. So explain to the Secretary of State how the hell he might have been valued and hit accurately by penny-forints. I think there's no other way than at the University of Public Service to discuss how much the party will be, how much the business will be. Another concrete example: they received 600 million forints from this university for a national anti-corruption program, they tried to spend it somehow, they started an anti-corruption course with 100 people. The university billed HUF 1 million 300 thousand for admission to the anti-corruption course in order to select participants from the many candidates for the anti-corruption course. Finally, I looked at it, and I wanted to see the contracts on the website of this university for more than HUF 5 million, what money was spent on, because it is mandatory to put them out, and this is one of the most important elements of the anti-corruption fight, that it is compulsory to put up contracts. I tried to download them. This is also an illustration tool. [[He's showing me an empty A/4 card.]] An empty paper; I hope that the Hungarian Parliament and László Kövér will not be alarmed by an empty paper. That's all there is on this page, because there are no contracts on the website that exceed HUF 5 million. András Patyi, president of the National Election Committee, is the rector of this university. I believe that, after the findings of the EU Commission and after these specifics, it is inconclusive that this person will remain either at the head of the National Election Committee or at the head of the university. Once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to answer how it is possible that a penny has been precisely hit in advance for a $4 billion investment in computer technology. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Why is this paper empty, and why did 1 million HUF 300 000 cost 100 people admissions? Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Dear House, You look down on all Hungarian teachers, whether you work in public education or work in higher education. You think I'm quoting you, that it's not brainwashing, it's education. We agree with this, of course, and I think that everyone agrees with this in Hungary, so there is no need to state any evidence, Mr Congressman, because it does not create any news, neither the vote nor the popularity of the LMP, so we obviously all agree with that. But you think that the government is pressing a button, and then the 170,000 elementary and secondary school teachers and teachers suddenly turn from educators, teachers and teachers into brainwashers, and that's a reality that you think they are? That's how you look at 170,000 people, that's how you see them, that's how you feel about these people, that they turn into brainwashers at the touch of a button? This is a huge disdain for all Hungarian teachers. And I see that, by the way, you feel the same way about 14,000 higher education workers, and you see them as well. Dear Member, fortunately, we have greater respect for these teachers and researchers, teachers and teachers, which is why we spend more money each year on education and public education. [[9.20]] Last year, we increased spending on education by more than HUF 100 billion, HUF 105 billion, and we plan to increase again this year by HUF 82-85 billion, and then see how the Hungarian Parliament adopts the budget in its final form. There are growing resources, the Hungarian education system is expanding from these expanding sources. On the one hand, this is how we can cover teachers' wage increases, and you know that overall, teachers' salaries increase by 50 percent over four to five years, and we have also launched the same wage increase for higher education workers. This wage increase is covered in last year's, this year's and next year's budgets. Last year we spent HUF 6 billion 806 million on this, it was a 15-percent increase, with HUF 2.7 billion coming in this year, HUF 9.5 billion, and next year 5 per cent, so 15 plus 5 plus 5 per cent, for the future, HUF 6.8 plus HUF 2.7 and 3.2 in total, which includes a surplus to raise the salary of 14,000 instructors and researchers. Thus, according to this year's job classification, a university teacher, a teacher in a step, who now earns HUF 528,000, will earn HUF 554,000 next year. This was 437 thousand more on 1 January 2015, thus increasing from 437 thousand to 554 thousand forints for teachers, at least in the academic position the salaries of the teachers in the same grade. But there are also many other sources of additional funding for next year's budget. To support the basic activity, there is a surplus of more than HUF 6 billion, the PhD students, the addition of students with disabilities, and the national higher education scholarship, including the wage increase of teachers, researchers and teachers, as I said, includes a surplus on Stipendium Hungaricum, and there is a surplus on both asset management tasks and on the implementation of the first step of the national college development strategy next year's budget. This is because of the fact that these additional resources exist, because now, as opposed to the era best represented by the 4th metro construction, which refers to the period before 2010, when, according to the OLAF report, many tens of billions, and even more than one hundred billion forints were stolen from one investment or cheated out by the then MSZP-SZDSZ leaders, while these funds are now being spent on educating wage increases, higher education wage increases, school building, classroom and gym building, new school buildings or expansion of schools. Of these, you can already face investments in 26 locations all over the country or within seconds if you go around the country, honourable Member. Just because you tell these different truths, or half-truths, or complete lies, from week to week - I can't clearly tell that from here without a document - doesn't mean they're real. The fact that you keep fake info on a regular basis, the claims of which can generally be refuted by those involved from week to week, doesn't mean that the popularity of LMP can be increased. However, there may no longer be a group in Hungary, other than politicians, who you have not corrupted or cheated on, in education, health care, social affairs, everywhere. You see corrupt civil servants, corrupt teachers, corrupt teachers, corrupt social workers, corrupt medical workers everywhere. Honourable Member, I think that we should have greater respect for the citizens of Hungary and not corrupt everyone who lives and moves in Hungary from week to week. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The tide's coming up. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group before the agenda. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-05-03-9	Mr President, Dear House, The House is living on historic days in terms of the fact that Fidesz-KDNP has not shown such a shock in recent years as it has shown for you in the last 24 or 48 hours on migration. Yesterday, they were unable to give a meaningful answer to our repeated calls about how, after a long campaign of a year and a half to combat migration, they went to Brussels for a report, and within 24 hours they were able to submit, kneel, back on their knees in key areas that were simply inexplicable. Such is the very sweaty interview by Antal Rogán, where the Minister stated that the government will now be much easier for migrants between the ages of 14 and 18, he will allow these persons to come to Hungary for a DNA test, if necessary to install them. And once again, I would like to emphasise that the Fidesz comment lying machine has been launched quickly, and the explanations that this has already been the case, and that migrants between the ages of 14 and 18 have already been able to walk freely. In the face of this government lie and lies, I would like to emphasise once again: before March, you asked Jobbik for and received assistance in the form of votes. In fact, Fidesz and Jobbik jointly voted and established the legal border closure - quite rightly otherwise - which, in respect of those age groups, has also erected a virtual fence that has made it difficult for them to come here, as regards juvenile aliens between 14 and 18 years of age. Now, in Brussels, you are asked to withdraw your own tightening up, which has been put into this system with the authority of Jobbik, by voting on 7 March. The Rogán interview was about you wanting to withdraw your own tightening up at the pressure in Brussels and let it go. Now, I ask the Secretary of State that we do not go into the world of Internet commentators to exclude these transparent lies from outside the walls of Parliament, and just stand on the ground of frank speech - that is a yes-no question - whether or not the legal border closure that this Parliament had taken through Fidesz-Better votes on 7 March is intended to release. Do you or do you not wish to deal with Brussels pressure at your own tightening up? I understand that, with regard to the answer to an immediate question yesterday, Minister Lazarus was put in a very awkward position because he did not have to sit there and give an answer, but, where appropriate, to Minister Rogán. And the answer was that, thanks to their politics based on Christian principles, they do want to let these migrants into Hungary, not underage, but underage migrants, even though you know that family reunifications can't be stopped later, knowing that this age group is the most dangerous in terms of being ideologically trained, but that its socialization is not yet complete, so it can be subjected to the most violent acts, and we are talking about the most influential age group. That would be a very rude mistake to keep quiet. At the same time, we also need to see that, with this descent to Brussels, if they resolve their own tightening up, they will not only spit on the 3.3 million people who expressed their opposition in the referendum, but the consultations and poster campaigns of the last two years have not only been unnecessary, but they have been horrifyingly wasted money. And when Fidesz Minister talks about introducing a system of DNA tests for people coming in, then the question arises, and I also point out to Mr Secretary of State that he will pay for these tests. Have you determined how much this costs? In what time frame are they counting on this? How many people do they even want to install or contribute to these resettlements in Hungary? It is quite amazing that without unanswered questions, they are actually unwilling to respond to the issue that affects Hungary's fate and Hungary's sovereignty in the long term. After all, yesterday you said why 30-40 people bother Jobbik, where appropriate minors, underage people - I stress that it is juveniles - but we say that three or thirty people are a lot, because such a process will open up a door that will be kicked at us by a flood that is hidden behind it. They will kick this gate at us, they will flood Hungary if we do not show zero tolerance. You have let the rich migrants into Hungary for money with a settlement obligation, we said no and we prevented this process, and now you want to let young migrants into Hungary free of charge. Again, it's just us saying no. Therefore, there is a gap between us, and yet your answer would be of interest to us in this regard. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will respond to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-03-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that there are few countries in Europe where there is such security as Hungary, because, thanks to the measures of the last nearly two years, we have created the triple protection at the southern border, we have created the lively protection, the police and the defence together guard the border, we have established the legal border closure, which was confirmed on 7 March, which entered into force on 28 March, and on 28 April we handed over the second fence at the Serbian-Hungarian full border. So this triple protection works, and as a result, no migrant can enter Hungary illegally without a check-in. [[9.30]] Honourable Congressman, I would also like to underline that this system is working, and the members of Parliament's National Security Committee could be convinced of this during their visit on 26 April in the Röszke transit zone. I would also like to say that Hungary, the government, has not gone rogue. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán defended Hungary in the European Parliament in Brussels a week ago, defended his country, defended the Hungarian position and clearly supported Hungarian interests. I think that is why I should thank Prime Minister. As regards security and the question of what will happen to minors between the ages of 14 and 18, I would like to inform you and this House that there are currently 11 people in Tompa. This is the transit zone where we place juveniles. You also know, Congressman, that on 7 March Parliament adopted a law that excluded these 14-18-year-olds from the possibility of allowing them into the territory of the country. So, honourable Member, you are a member of Parliament, you should know that a change in this matter can only be made if Parliament amends the law. Honourable Congressman, Amendment to the Asylum Act, examining this issue from a humanitarian point of view... - and I would like to underline that in the transit zone we provide humane conditions for the migrants who have applied for it, who, by the way, can move freely in the transit zone and leave Hungary at any time to Serbia. So it is possible to examine this issue from a humanitarian point of view. I'm telling you, there are 11 people currently in the Tampa transit zone. Their admission may be examined, but no decision has been taken on this matter. Honourable Congressman, He does not see a bill on this in Parliament. I would like to say that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, Hungary's Government, protects the security of Hungarian people, protects the country and protects the external borders of the Union, as the Hungarian-Serbian border is an EU external border. As regards your attitude, I would like to point out that you did not participate in the referendum campaign. You know that, only the government was attacked. 3 million 362 thousand people said no to the question. Why did you just have to blackmail the government? And that's what they've been doing ever since. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's a lie!]] If we are talking about capitulation, honourable Member, I think that if you look in the mirror, you can conclude that you have capitulated. After all, a few years ago on a Mayal, he said that only leaving the European Union could be the only solution. Then, recently, at the conference of the Hungarian Liberal Party, he said that we should not quit. One day, they say that we must quit, and the next day they side with the Brussels proposal, Member. One day, they're recruiting guards again, the next day they're paraded on a union majal with Gyula Molnár, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Ander Balázs: Why didn't you lock up Gyurcsány?]] This is the Jobbik. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You've become a pair of windcocks, a pair of windcocks that make you feel dizzy. We cannot, in any sense, entrust the security of this country to such a force, honourable Member. The security of Hungary, the security of the Hungarian people, is ensured by the government. We have defended Hungary so far, we have defended it against migrants, Prime Minister has defended it in the European Parliament against political attacks. We will protect you against the Soros pro-organisations, against György Soros, against the NGOs, against the operative organizations. [[Ander Balázs: No one believes that.]] Hungary is safe. That's right, and as long as Fidesz governs the country, that's how it stays. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, entitled priorities for the 2018 budget, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-13	Mr President, Dear House, The budget is a complex answer to a simple question. This simple question sounds like we have that kind of money to spend on. These figures reflect the political objectives of the government and the situation of the country. One sentence deserves the date of the submission. Spring presentation is a key to predictability and planning. This means that this predictable budget planning gives stability. When I said that the situation of the country is reflected in the figures, this means that if we look at the most important figures, then it is worth explaining this. The budget is projected to increase by 4.3 percent of GDP, with a deficit below 3 percent, a 2.4 percent deficit and a 3 percent inflation plan. This shows that the country is in a good position and even in an improving situation. And if we also look at the political intentions behind these figures, perhaps three or four key words that have always been published in the budgets during civil governance are worth mentioning. Perhaps the first thing that could be mentioned is a reduction in public debt. Let us recall that when the government of the second Orbán government began, this debt-to-GDP ratio was about 80 percent, but now it will go down to 72 percent. We could mention an increase in employment, with which we are talking about reducing unemployment. It was somewhere around 10 percent in the first year, and now we're at 4 percent. The third keyword may be to improve the situation of families. When we say that we are building a work-based society and that this budget is for the benefit of people living in work, we also think about family support. After all, the most important element is income-related support, tax relief, which will rise to HUF 17 500 per child in the following year for children. But we could also list the wage increases. For me, it may be important to raise wages in health care, which not only appears in specialists but also in professionals. This is done for four years, and there is also the scheduled part of the wage increase in 18. But we could list the increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, which will be 138 thousand or 180 thousand forints. Together, this will result in a significant net wage increase, which is projected at 8-10 percent. So all these subsidies, including the continuation of career models, serve the work-based society. We can also say that increasing our security and sovereignty is also an objective that is reflected in this budget. And if you have to say numbers, you can obviously mention a few, although it's not the numbers that matter, it's the direction. Health gets 102 billion more, education over 80 billion, pensions, social services, family support 287 billion, law enforcement 87 billion, economic development 200 billion, and I could continue. So each area will get more. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr Benő Banai, State Secretary, spoke on behalf of the Government before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[9.40]]
u2017-05-03-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, The Head of the Group highlighted the main priorities of the 2018 draft budget law tabled by the Government yesterday. Allow me to join Mr Group Leader in bringing the priorities of next year's budget proposal into two groups. One group may include priorities that can be interpreted from the point of view of a person of everyday life. I would like to highlight three areas here: work, family, security. Next year's draft budget law focuses on ensuring that the value of the work is greater in 2018 than in 2017, focusing on making the livelihood of families easier and focusing on maintaining the security that we can guarantee at present in 2018. These areas define government measures, I have included the increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage mentioned by Mr. Group leader, I have arrived at the public sector life plans, in the area of the family I highlight the expansion of tax incentives for families with two children, and that in the next year's budget all family benefits exceed HUF 300 billion. In the area of security we expect a surplus of more than HUF 80 billion in 2018 compared to 2017. At the same time, let me say, in addition to the priorities that are important for everyday life, that, as the group leader has done, progress in all these areas is being made in such a way that we can, in addition, preserve the macro-economic results that the country has achieved over the past six to seven years. Tax reductions and additional expenditure in these areas are carried out in such a way that they are covered by the expansion of the economy. After the turn of growth in 2013, we expect that, just as the growth of the Hungarian economy in recent years has exceeded the average of the European Union, it will continue to exceed the EU average in 2018; we will calculate with 4.3 percent real growth. This increase is therefore the cover behind tax reductions and additional expenditure. It is important that this collateral will be available and that we can preserve the stability of public finances. We calculate a deficit of 2.4 per cent of GDP and in 2018 a reduction of around 2 percentage points in government debt. I therefore think that, from the point of view of everyday life, progress can be made with one step in everyone's life by keeping the macro-economic balance, and even by calculating growth, it will be higher than in 2016 or 2017, and I stress that the burdens of the future can also be reduced by reducing public debt in 2018. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, From the Fidesz Group, Member Erik Bánki applied for a speech before the agenda:. What does the 2018 budget give people? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Employment, family support, security: these are the pillars of next year's budget. We have come very far since 2010, when the government had to take over a bankrupt country and a budget in crisis. Since then, we have repaid loans from the IMF and the European Union, stabilised the budget, and our budget numbers for next year are better than that of many other EU countries. We have been able to achieve this stability by continuously reducing taxes while continuously increasing the competitiveness of domestic businesses. The Hungarian government expects a 2.4 percent deficit in the 2018 budget, 4.3 percent economic growth and an increase in consumption of around 4.5-5 percent. The planned rate of inflation will be around 3 per cent, where, of course, a higher pension increase will be expected in 2018. The minimum wage will be 138 thousand forints, and the guaranteed minimum wage will reach 180 thousand forints. This will exceed 9% in net earnings for these layers. Ladies and gentlemen, 80% of the budget will be used for the operation of the country by Parliament, and 20 percent will be able to be used for improvements. There will be more than 185 billion forints in healthcare last year, 82 billion more will be spent on education, and 55 billion forints will be able to be used to preserve public safety. In addition, next year's budget reserve will be HUF 210 billion. With the 2018 budget, ladies and gentlemen, everyone will be better off. The objective remains unchanged: achieving full employment, which was set in 2010 and to which we are getting closer. To this end, the aim of the 2018 budget is, of course, to increase wages and reduce employment taxes while respecting wage agreements. We want people not only to have jobs, but everyone in Hungary to be able to live better. That is why we also consider it important to continue raising salaries and helping families. In the current uncertain environment, it is particularly important that Hungary is able to maintain its stability in the long term, and therefore the further strengthening of police and security is the third pillar of next year's budget. Ladies and Gentlemen, We will also continue to reduce taxes. Small business tax and health contributions will be significantly reduced. The VAT on the Internet, as promised, is reduced from 18% to 5 percent, just like the VAT on fish, which is reduced from 27 percent to 5 percent, following previous steps, reducing the VAT on pig meat, chicken, eggs and milk, so fish are included among the basic foods. From national sources, the budget plans HUF 256 billion for road development, HUF 40 billion for road renewal and HUF 150 billion for the development of modern city programmes. Wage improvements in careers will continue in 2018, with 167 thousand teachers growing with next year's salary increases - 40 percent overall in recent years - and 58 thousand people in law enforcement will be affected by the career model, which will increase their salary by 45 percent. The wages of 18,000 of the defence workers will increase by 45%, and we can expect a 33 percent wage increase for the state officials' careers as well. The previous wage increases in health care affected 95 thousand people; we did not forget higher education, where the wages of 18,000 instructors will increase by 25 percent next year. Thanks to the career models, ladies and gentlemen, the overall salary of 550 thousand Hungarian citizens will increase significantly, which means that nearly a third of families may have significant increases in living standards. Dear House, In conclusion, the 2018 budget submitted by the Government to Parliament will be a budget for employment, family support and security. We continue with the VAT reduction programme, taxes are falling, and wages are rising, while the deficit is below the 3 per cent set by the European Commission - by 2.4 per cent. So it is safe to say that next year's budget will bring about an opportunity for all Hungarians to move forward and a better standard of living. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Benő Banai, State Secretary, Mr Erik Bánki, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I agree with the Member's findings on both the state of the economy and the priorities for next year's budget. Allow me to highlight some of the factors mentioned by the Member, which have not yet been mentioned, from next year's changes. At the time of strengthening the families, it was said that the tax reductions are being made, how much the tax relief system will increase the income of a family with two children - 60 thousand forints per year - and what direct subsidies are being paid to the families outside the tax system for next year's budget. [[9.50]] Here, with regard to families, let me highlight the creation of a home. The home creation programme, which focuses on changing the demographic situation, on the birth of as many children as possible, also leads to the expansion of the economy by building new homes. I think that in the next year's budget, therefore, with the home creation programme, we can strengthen families, improve their financial situation, at the same time continue the positive demographic changes seen over the past period, and at the same time support for next year's economic expansion. Thus, we calculate a higher amount for the home creation programme than before, with some HUF 225 billion in 2018. When it comes to strengthening families, it was also said that inflation could be moderate - we calculate by 3 percent in 2018 - and if we are talking about inflation, we also have to say that pensions preserve their real value. In fact, over the last 5-6 years, the real value of pensions has increased by about 10 percent, and this year and next year, we expect not only to maintain this real value, but also to pay the so-called pension premium as a result of the expected economic growth of more than 3.5 percent this year and next year. I stress that this is an institution the use of which has not yet been possible in the event of the planned expansion of the economy, and this is the moment when we calculate with more than 3.5 percent economic expansion, and in November we calculate this year and next year by paying the pension premium. Work, family, security. I can reiterate the motives and factors mentioned by Mr Group leader or Member, and I stress that all tax reductions will be carried out in such a way as to ensure that any additional expenditure is provided in order to preserve the stability of the budget. The reserves of more than HUF 200 billion mentioned by the Member ensure that no circumstances can jeopardise tax reductions or additional expenditure affecting the lives of everyday life. On this basis, I would be happy to recommend to the Honourable Parliament the discussion and subsequent adoption of next year's draft budget law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machines, so that we can start making decisions. Dear Parliament, Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity , and the adoption of a report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity (recast) H/15097. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/15097 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 144 votes to 30, with four abstentions. The T/15006 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Japan on the temporary work programme will now be announced. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15006. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 179 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. The second annex to the T/15034 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the development, implementation and financing of the reconstruction phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line in Hungary. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15034 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 125 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. Next up is the T/14662 on the announcement of the Convention between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the transfer of sentenced persons. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/14662/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct translation error, which is available to all of them on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14662. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 180 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. We now have the T/14663. on the announcement of the Convention on Extradition between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/14663/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct translation error, which is available to all of them on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14663. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 182 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. We now have the T/1505 on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/1555/2. No 2 submitted an adjustment to correct translation error, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1505 will accept it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 182 votes in favour, 2 votes against and without abstentions. It follows now that T/14683 on the amendment of the laws governing cooperation in the European Union and international criminal matters and related other laws for the purposes of harmonisation is being followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/14683/8 and T/14683/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.00]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In the light of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 4 and 5, ladies and gentlemen, the decision will be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14683/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 178 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14683/8. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 178 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to remind you that T/14683/10. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14683/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14683/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 154 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. T/14679 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14679/5. and a summary report by T/14679/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14679/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 144 votes to 30, without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14679/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Next up is the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. T/14681. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14681/17. T/14681/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments Nos 5, 8 and 12 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 117 against and 27 abstentions. Amendment 8 is also proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 117 against and 27 abstentions. Amendment 12 is also proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 117 against and 28 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14681/17. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 50 votes against and 9 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just accepted the summary amendment proposal, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned. Therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14681/19. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes to 53, with 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CXXVI on the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development follows. T/14660. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14660/14. T/14660/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4 and Jobbik Group Nos 5, 7 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zoltán Gőgös. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 36 votes in favour, 140 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Zoltán Gőgös. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 114 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 117 against and without abstention. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. [[10.10]] Amendment 8 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14660/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 59 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14660/18. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/14434. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by our colleague at the Sallai R. Benedict LMP, on the measures needed to improve food safety and the quality of food, H/14372. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of subjects by 59 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of you that all my fellow Members who now leave the Chamber in order to carry out their duties which cannot be postponed should do so while continuing the work of Parliament's plenary session. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will be in line. General discussion of the Statute of 29 June 2015 on the establishment and functioning of the Statute of the Governing Council of Beijing and of the draft law on the publication of the decision of the Governing Council of AIIB setting out the terms of membership until its closure. The government referral is T/15360. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2017-05-03-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The aim of the bill before us is to ensure that Hungary becomes a member of the Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank in accordance with the provisions of Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts. Accordingly, the bill provides for the publication of the Act of 2015 establishing and operating the AIIB and the Decision of the Governing Council of March 2017 adopting the membership of Hungary and determining the conditions for membership. The bill also provides that the amount of EUR 20 million of capital to be paid by Hungary is to be paid out in annual equal instalments between 2017 and 2022. As part of the bill, in accordance with international and domestic practice, the Hungarian National Bank is appointed to perform the duties of the depositary required by the Statute. Dear Parliament, By joining AIIB, Hungary will become a member of one of the world's largest multilateral development banks recently established. AIIB is the first Chinese financial initiative to be open to any country in the world to finance long-term infrastructure development needs in Asia and the Pacific region. AIIB and other cooperating development partners contribute to the financing of an annual investment need of USD 1000 billion in the Asian region by providing and mobilising low-cost, competitive resources. The new international development bank, which will start operations in January 2016, is also decisive in terms of its financial strength and the number of Member States. AIB is an equal partner of the World Bank Group active in the Asian region and the Asian Development Bank with its subscribed capital of USD 100 billion and 57 existing and 17 new Member States now joining. In just a year and a half since the start of its operation, the projects adopted by AIIB are worth more than $2 billion, which is expected to grow dynamically. Based on the initial experience of AIIB's operation, the Bank has developed and integrates modern standards of governance and environmental, social, labour and public procurement into its institutional processes and projects, which are particularly closely monitored by European shareholders and other relevant international actors. From the Central European region, Hungary joins the AIIB second after Poland and is expected to become a member of the UK-led group of countries currently consisting of seven European countries. [[10.20]] We will be able to represent our interests effectively in the AIIB decision-making processes directly or through country groups. As a result of the accession negotiations, the $100 million share of subscribed capital offered to Hungary provides a share of our economic weight in the bank. The share of $20 million to be paid shall be paid in equal instalments in the most favourable manner available over five years. Dear House, With the adoption of the bill, Hungary will be given direct access to the dynamically developing portfolio of AIIB, new project opportunities, providing new opportunities for suppliers or direct presence of Hungarian companies on the Asian market. On the basis of recent discussions with AIIB's top management, the existing domestic capacities in infrastructure development, especially in the water sector, can also be involved in the implementation of the developments supported by AIIB. The AIIB membership thus further develops and expands Hungary's international financial and external economic relations, helping to achieve its objective of economic growth and improving corporate competitiveness. For these reasons, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-22	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! The Fidesz faction supports the bill, because when we look at it, we see that today a new international trend is developing, in which China and Asian countries will have a prominent role in the future. Hungary's accession to the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank facilitates the development of our country's international financial and external economic relations system and strengthens the presence of Hungarian companies in Asian markets. Our membership allows our country to participate in the decisions of an international financial organisation that is expected to have a great influence in the future. Membership makes it easier for Hungarian companies to participate in developments financed through the financial institution. The implementation of projects financed by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank has a significant export potential, and it facilitates participation in the implementation of the new Silk Road concept, in which Hungary remains committed. It is calculated that the resources of the investment bank can be used in regions, countries and sectors where Hungarian exporters are already present. We are currently talking about deepening the cooperation of two dynamically developing regions, even if the dimensions and dimensions are different for both parties. It is important to mention that Central Europe has become the growth engine of the European continent, partly due to investments made by Chinese companies in the region. The success of Hungary is that Europe's most competitive investment environment, geographical location and infrastructure have been able to achieve the highest number of Chinese investments in the region, and last year and this year Hungary has exported the most from the region to China. This represents a huge potential for economic development and, to this end, any restrictive measures that may develop in terms of the region and China should be discarded. We believe that the development of a good partnership is not only in the interest of China and Central Europe, but also in the interests of the entire European continent. In recent years Hungary has become one of Europe's most competitive investment environments, and we are pleased to see that the other Central European countries are also very successful in this respect. That's why our faction supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Márton Gyöngyösi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The fact that we can talk about the establishment of the Asian Investment Bank for Infrastructure shows the enormous change that is being made in accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. At the beginning of the 20th century, it has entered the global force field and shows that the world has a kind of economic, financial, political, geopolitical shift from the west to the east, and it also shows very well the role that China plays in this shift in financial and economic matters and shows very well that China is financial, economic and commercial in the 21st century. He's gonna be one of the leading characters of the century. A new era begins, so I believe that the establishment of this bank, the date of its establishment, will perhaps be seen as the beginning of a new era and the end of an era, which will also result in the decline of the institutional systems established during the Bretton Woods period. A lot of people are talking about the leadership of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in this new Asian Investment Bank for Infrastructure in the global economic and financial space. The Chinese leadership has set up this development bank with USD 100 billion of capital in order to finance investment in Asian infrastructure, and perhaps we can see that everyone may already see that perhaps what means economic development in the world, economic boom, Asia is the 21st. The 21st century will play a leading role for the future, the 21st century. The economic and financial history of the century is more than likely to be written in Asia, so such an infrastructure investment bank is crucial and that Hungary can be a part of it. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary announced the Eastern opening soon after its formation, at a time when the Hungarian political elite, including Fidesz, proclaimed the exclusiveness of Eurolantism. It is a great pleasure for us that even if you have noticed global trends, even with a small spatter reaction, you have noticed the amazing changes that are taking place in the world in financial, economic and commercial terms. As is known - and here we are enjoying a little bit of wormwood - the deadline set for the founding member application by the Founders of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank was 31 March 2015. By 31 March 2015, countries wishing to participate as founding members in the life of this very important institution had to apply. And as we know, the founding members are the ones who set up and shape the strategic direction and objectives of the bank, so it may not be surprising that all the great countries that give themselves something quickly received the opportunity and registered as founding members of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. So did Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, and so did Poland in Eastern Central Europe, which, as a mid-power power, joined the Asian Investment Bank as a founding member, despite the fact that the United States of America had a huge counter- campaign against the establishment of this bank. [[10.30]] In terms of Atlantism, our Polish friends are quite used to giving us the direction the United States of America sets or deems desirable, despite which Poland has joined this institution as a founding member. Of course, it is possible to apply to the Asian Investment Bank for Infrastructure after 31 March 2006 but only as a single member and a single member in such an institution or as a founding member, as I said before, we must make a very serious distinction between the two, since one of its defining objectives and strategies and shaper of the institutional system and the other is just a simple member, which cannot exercise such rights. Hungary had a huge opportunity before 31 March 2015 to finally join an organization of its own will and will after a hundred years of its own will and will, not as we did at the time of our accession to KGST, at the time of our accession to the International Monetary Fund in 1982 or even at the time of our accession to the European Union. Let's face it, they all happened under the influence of certain constraints, which a lot of people would like to rewrite and overwrite in some way. So it's the 21st. In the 20th century, we had an opportunity, which we unfortunately missed as a result of the dilettantism of the Hungarian government, because, and now hold on, Hungary announced on 1 April 2015, one day after the deadline for the founding member's application that it would join the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and did not do otherwise, Viktor Orbán himself made this announcement in Kazakhstan, Astana, on a site surrounded by amazing media attention, and announced that Hungary would join the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. If the goal was to embarrass ourselves as much as possible, then we managed to kill two birds with one stone, because we missed an opportunity, and we managed to make a big deal out of it and get huge media attention. In fact, Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary in Kazakhstan, when he announced this decision to the Hungarian government, he even mixed the newly founded Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank with the bank's competitor, the Asian Development Bank, which was founded by Japan several decades ago. If there is a measure of dilettantism or chimborassó, then I believe that this is it, and in addition to the failure of the Eastern opening, we have managed to achieve such a kind of western closure, so, two-in-one, because it is very good to see that the United States of America and Western financial institutions do regard the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank as a competitor. So we missed an opportunity and even brought him good news, and even the United States of America has been reminded that we have joined a competing organisation, but not by accidentally giving us the right to have a say in strategic questions, but simply as a member. So I am obviously very pleased that this institution has been established, and I am also very pleased that Hungary is taking part in this at some level, but, as we are accustomed to doing during a Fidesz government, this is also an additional act and a qualified case of half-solutions, a real veterinary horse for your governance, because it is clear that Hungary is thus the 21st. At the beginning of the 20th century, he made an amazing mistake on a strategic issue, a sovereign decision of his own volition. Due to his dilettantism, he was unable to ride a train that was part of the 21st century. It goes to the right place in the first century, with the right speed, and which would create amazing opportunities for Hungary, both economically and financially. We are very happy to discuss this here. We are very pleased that Hungary is participating in this Asian Investment Bank for Infrastructure, but we are very sorry that we missed this opportunity and applied to this organisation as a single member, but of course there is nothing we can do, we will support this law, we will support this proposal, of course, with the expression of our regret. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-03-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, State Secretary, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Anna Hornung Agnes says no.]] He doesn't want to. [[István Tukacs applauds.]] Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Friday at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the draft law amending the laws governing the functioning of financial markets and the trading of financial instruments for harmonisation purposes until closure. The government referral is T/15347. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The new bill before us is already in its title indicating that it is essentially a package of laws that achieves harmonisation in the European Union. In the area of financial regulation, this type of regulation is a recurring task, as maintaining a single European financial market requires the adoption and regular modernisation of a number of EU legislation. This time, we are proposing to transpose the directive, which is a comprehensive set of rules on the capital market. This revised Directive on markets in financial instruments, with its abbreviation in English, shows that we are not talking about a brand-new regulatory area, but about a renewed regulation for institutions that have already been regulated. In practice, this means, on the one hand, that the fundamental pillars of regulation are unchanged. This is indicated by the fact that the amendment of two laws, which are now decades old, the Capital Markets Act and the Investment Services Act are essential elements of the bill. On the other hand, as a result of the review, rules that are tightening up to some of the lessons of the financial crisis, as well as the expansion of the instruments and persons covered by the rules, and new regulatory issues have to be taken into account. Without going too far into the technical details of EU legislation, I must mention that the directive itself, which is now to be transposed into national law, is only part of the requirements that market operators will have to comply with. In addition to the current directive, a multitude of directly applicable EU regulations, including the MiFID Regulation, which is most closely linked to the Directive, are the basis for regulation. In addition, in order to facilitate the application of the law, reference is made to the more important provisions contained in the Regulations and to the directly complementary provisions which help to interpret the framework of directives, at least in the explanatory memorandum. This system of capital market rules included in the updated legal framework shall apply from 3 January 2018 in the Member States of the European Union. The half-year available will allow market participants to prepare for IT and organization. Honourable Members, Investment firms, credit institutions providing investment services, reporting agents and venues for trading in financial instruments may be classified as subject to this Regulation. The latter are known as stock exchanges, but the classification of directives differentiates between regulated markets, multilateral trading systems and trading systems organised as new market formations. [[10.40]] The Directive also reviews the stock exchange framework, which is of high importance among trading venues. The amendment to the Capital Markets Act is mainly linked to this issue. However, we stress that there are no significant changes in this respect, but we can only talk about the modernisation of the legislation that is already in force, which is also justified in terms of the rapid development of capital markets. One of the most important changes is the expansion of activity, as the stock exchange is given the opportunity to operate the so-called organised trading system, as well as to carry out data reporting and IT activities. The requirements for trading on stock exchanges and the suspension of listing have also been reviewed in the provisions of the Directive. The main innovation is that, in the event of suspension and cancellation of a financial instrument, certain additional financial instruments linked to it, directly dependent on its price, may be suspended or cancelled as a result of supervisory measures. The rules on stock exchange trading law will also be reviewed. In addition to investment service providers, the Directive also provides for direct trading rights to be granted to other entities, which is also subject to domestic regulation. Dear Parliament, One of the main aims of regulating markets in financial instruments is to strengthen the security and efficiency of markets. In accordance with this endeavour, trading is managed on regulated venues. It is worth noting here that not only is it a Hungarian phenomenon, but the majority of the Member States of the European Union are dominated by bank financing. Therefore, a strong incentive for capital markets financing in the European Union is also a priority. This is an initiative involving many areas, the Capital Market Union, of which only one element is what appears in the present proposal. In order to facilitate access to non-bank capital for small and medium-sized enterprises, it will also be possible to set up a trading venue classified as the so-called SME equity market in the future. This proposal, which has already been developed on the basis of a successful market model in many places, hopefully will also promote SMEs' access to alternative, non-banking resources. It is also worth mentioning that, in order to keep pace with technological progress, requirements for algorithmic trading and high-speed trading techniques are also introduced. Honourable Members, Turning to the rules imposed on investment firms, I would like to emphasise that for most of the provisions, even if they are conditional, there is a strong motivation for investor protection. Since the detailed rules for these elements are laid down in a Commission directive published at the end of March, its transposition into Hungarian law will be published in the form of a NGM regulation. The provisions on customer information were of particular importance in the development of the MiFID Directive. It is a basic principle that customers should be provided with clear, clear, accurate and non-misleading information throughout the Union, and therefore the detailed provisions going beyond the general framework rules are largely contained in the Commission Delegated Regulation and, as I mentioned earlier, there is a specific reference to where this detailed regulatory content can be found in the EU provision in a number of provisions of the proposal. This will help those who apply the law to be aware of the need to take further legal requirements into account. The proposal requires, inter alia, investment firms providing investment advice to publish the fee for advice, clarify the basis of the advice given by it, in particular the choice of products that it takes into account when making personal recommendations to customers, whether it provides investment advice on an independent basis or whether it provides customers with periodic assessment of the suitability of the financial instruments offered to them. The information shall be communicated by the investment firm in such a way that it can reasonably be assumed that the client is able to understand and understand the service offered and the characteristics and risks of that financial instrument and, as a result, to make informed investment decisions. The law governing investment firms includes reporting agents as new institutions. This proposal aims to improve the transparency of trading data and facilitate access to information. Transparency will also be enhanced by the new provision introducing a certain degree of control in the commodity derivatives market. The requirement for the application of the position control mechanism for operators of trading venues has been laid down. The proposed provisions therefore simplify the scope of the financial regulation for transactions in electricity-based and gas-based derivatives. Dear Parliament, The bill before us also proposes to amend the Act on the National Bank of Hungary. These amendments also stem from EU legislation, as it is necessary to lay down the supervisory obligations arising from the EU legislative package for the Hungarian National Bank acting in its role of overseeing the financial intermediary system. In addition, the proposal includes amendments to a number of additional laws on financial matters, which typically contain clarification provisions. The proposal contains two hundred paragraphs in scale, so it could be described for a long time, but in this short introduction I was only trying to highlight the essential elements. I believe that the proposal contributes to further strengthening the domestic financial intermediary system and to better protecting the interests of customers and investors. I therefore ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-28	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. This is the end of the exposé. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The bill before us brings about the transposition of the revised Financial Markets Directive, i.e. compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation by amending the sectoral laws in force. This therefore does not mean a complete rethink of the rules on the investment services sector, but only a modernisation of the existing framework, since the Member States have been obliged to apply Directive 2004/39/EC on markets in financial instruments, hereinafter referred to as MiFID, and the related second-level rules since November 2007. This review was initiated by the European Commission in October 2011 and the renewed framework is called MiFID II. This has already been published in 2014 and the transposition of the new legislation has now become due after some delay, but in accordance with the provisions of the Directive, the new rules should apply only from 3 January 2018. These laws regulate investment services provided by investment firms and credit institutions and the operation of regulated markets. The most important changes to the bill are: the operation of the so-called organised trading system appears as a new investment service activity. A new institution will be introduced for reporting agents, which will improve the transparency of trading data. [[10.50]] The bill contains detailed rules for algorithmic trading as a modern trading technique. In terms of investment advice and portfolio management, investor protection provisions are strengthened. The stock exchange regime is also renewed, for example in terms of stock exchange activities or stock exchange trading law. There are new requirements for commodity derivative contracts, such as the introduction of position control mechanisms for investment service providers. A category of SME finance market will be introduced, which will be a special trading platform where only SMEs of the size defined by the Directive can appear as issuers. As a result of the alignment with the above amendments, the financial supervisory toolkit will be expanded and coloured. With regard to other laws on financial matters, such as a credit institution law, a resolution law, and the rest, the bill contains clarifications. It is important to note that a number of other detailed rules are contained in the directly applicable regulations which further explain the content of the directive. Given that capital market transactions are subject to comprehensive and enhanced transparency requirements for a wider range of financial instruments in the future, ensuring compliance with this will also create additional burdens for service providers. Of course, there will be financial implications, but the extent of these depends largely on the range of services offered by each service provider, i.e. the distribution of burdens, in proportion to the activity carried out. At the same time, the new provisions imposed on service providers serve the protection of customers, investors and their increased information, thus making a major contribution to strengthening confidence, from which both the service provider and the client can benefit in the long term. Dear House, I believe that in the increasingly complex financial market sector, it is difficult for a single investor to find out, and the European Commission has felt this, followed by a more transparent market environment and stricter regulation, which promises unity and transparency for customers. In view of the above, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this motion. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Congressman, you have the floor. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Let's hear it!]]
u2017-05-03-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a hateful subject that everyone hates, an amendment to the laws governing the functioning of financial markets and the trading of financial instruments for legal harmonisation purposes. In this title there is only one sympathetic, European harmonisation, because, unlike you, the European Union's legislation is a bit ahead of Hungarian, and this objective of harmonisation is specifically intended to follow the legislative harmonisation requirements of a 2014 EU regulation. At the same time, because the vast majority of people generally hate this area, because the money doesn't come to mind that it can have more money, it's the fact that the banks take their money and the government ruins the currency, the forint, and then their money is worth even less, so the majority of the population has a few positive experiences about money market operations, and this bill, for its purpose, I have to say, is correct. Therefore, the tightening of the operating conditions for investment services provided by investment firms and credit institutions to increase transparency is all in order to ensure investor protection and, as I say, three years behind in the implementation of Directive 2014/65/EU. The European Union Council Directive on the functioning of the financial instruments market has been in force since 2007, i.e. the basic directive. The changes in the financial markets that have taken place since then, the rapid development of innovative technologies and, not least, the shocks caused by the financial crisis in 2008-2009, have led to the need to revise these directives. The aim of the recast could also be to eliminate the lack of transparency between financial markets and the uncertainty, divergence and unevenness of individual transpositions in the Member States, which does not constitute a loophole or an overview difficulty for market participants. The financial crisis has only deepened these certain dysfunctions, deepened the problems, the pits in which an unsuspecting financial investor, especially a small investor, can step in and, unfortunately, suffer damage. The preparation of the new amended directive has set the objective of developing a set of rules that can ensure, in particular, the effective protection of investors and the full transparency of financial markets. This transparency is, of course, a fundamental condition; if something is seen, it may not even be understood by market participants. So the first condition is that the processes are visible, the second condition is the establishment and construction of a financial culture that, let's say, your school system is far from supporting so that people can adapt to this and take advantage of the opportunities provided by the law that will provide their security in such operations. As a matter of substance, I would also like to say that the expansion of customer protection rules is basically correct, because during the financial crisis it has been found that municipal authorities and local authorities have often misjudged their own investment opportunities and the risk of individual investment products, so that they are removed from the circle of investors with which they are in the category of eligible partners. So life has proven that despite the help of many Fidesz advisors to the Fidesz mayor, it's not really the end of the municipality's benefit, but the benefit of the intermediary and Fidesz. So it's a rather categorical solution to this, if we eliminate this possibility for local governments by law. I note that it is not a basic task for the municipality to increase its assets through money market operations, just as János Lázár was very proud to do so at the time, until he lost a tenner. So it's an appropriate part of the bill. It is a strange loophole that, although it excludes municipalities from the eligible partner category, the default is that the municipality is not an acceptable partner for such operations, but can continue to be considered as a professional customer at its own request, accepting the consequences, which are quite drastic, so it is the same, but it can take a greater risk voluntarily. So it's nothing more than locking a door that says, "Watch out, there's a dangerous road ahead, but this door can be opened voluntarily by the municipality. So that doesn't mean too much protection. The following is such an element of content in the presentation of independent advice. The new directive introduces the institution of independent advice, which ensures a fair, professional and customer-friendly process for businesses. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] When an investment council is given, it should be made clear to customers that this is an independent advice, so this advice does not come from the financial institution, and if it is an independent advice, then the financial institution cannot provide benefits. [[11.00]] If the conditions for independent advice are met, the client should be informed as widely as possible of its options and risks. In the event of an offer, remuneration from the third party, i.e. from the bank, cannot arise in the first place. Therefore, only the consumer, the user of the council, may be able to accept remuneration from the independent consultant. This is a very appropriate legal institution, but it may not be able to solve too many problems. The third large area is XXI. The financial market technology challenge of the century, algorithmic trading. In this bill, which is the transposition of the EU Directive, there is nothing more than the recognition of the problem and the inclusion of the activity in the permit. But what criteria the company has to meet within the permit is hardly mentioned. To put it a little bit more clearly, algorithmic trading or high-speed or high-frequency trading, when tens of thousands of operations can take place every minute, naturally in digitized form, has enabled technological developments in recent years, and to spread automated algorithmic trading to this extent, i.e. when a computer algorithm calculates the parameters of the order, in fact with minimal human intervention. Human intervention only covers the definition of criteria, then the computer decides for itself. In high-speed algorithmic trading, the system analyzes market data very widely and produces and sends a large number of actual trade orders. Especially this latter operation, which is a very high risk because it can run into operations that are not certain that it will be lucky for an investor in a matter of seconds. These are therefore high-risk problems in the event of the posting of incorrect or parallel orders involving overloading trading venues, and therefore the new Directive makes the operation of those undertakings subject to authorisation. This has already been the case, so everyone could really only use such algorithmic trading at their own risk. This part of the bill basically draws attention to the fact that it is worth incorporating more serious protections here, because the risk can go unbelievably far in a matter of moments. The preparation of the EU Directive has actually deepened these problems due to the consequences of the financial crisis. Somewhere the whole process should start in the 1980s, in the US financial market, when, in addition to the usual banking activity, the financial market began to appear as an independent production force, which was in sharp contrast with previous regulations. So it was previously forbidden to produce money practically without productive work; there it was determined what commercial banks, investment banks and development banks had to do. This was relaxed during the Reagan administration as part of the so-called deregulation process. Many attribute this to the bang of the 2008 balloon that creative money market operations have developed that have resulted in the market being driven by undetectable products that the investor could not see, and that has enabled an unsuspecting investor to suffer serious damage. To sum up, the opinion of the Hungarian Socialist Party group, this new directive provides for customer protection that seems more effective in many areas, let us say, in a rather independent way from the Hungarian legislator, because it is about adopting the European Union directive, so it is about harmonising the law. This part is positive, eligible. At the same time, while new in the financial markets, Article 21 It also intends to regulate the challenges of its commercial forms and technologies, which it intends to put into the framework of an extremely unstable supervisory system within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank, an unobtrusable supervisory responsibility. So when we find that the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions, which was a state responsibility, the fidesz majority of the Hungarian legislation abolished the state responsibility, transferred this financial supervision to the National Bank of Hungary, which is an absolute independent institution; this would be appropriate if, by virtue of its legal power, the Hungarian National Bank complied with the damage caused by this supervisory authority. There have been quite a few examples of this in recent times, we can think of the Quaestor-damaged, the Buda-Cash-damaged or other smaller failing financial institutions. So the fault of the entire bill is its weakness that most of the supervisory responsibility in Hungary would be in the hands of the Hungarian National Bank today, which, unfortunately, has proved on numerous occasions in recent years that this supervisory readiness is not in possession of it, it cannot really take responsibility for the security of investors. And he even says that it's an institution independent of the state, so you don't want to expect such safeguards from him. I must say, therefore, that the content of the proposal is good, its implementation within the framework of the Hungarian National Bank is unthinkable. For these reasons, our group will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-32	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-03-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Indeed, we have a very complicated regulation ahead of us. It is about the further development of the 2004 EU directive on markets in financial instruments and its harmonisation. I think that before we talk about the specific proposal, it is worth looking at where we came from. It was established in 2004 and adopted by the European Parliament on markets in financial instruments, called MiFID. What was the experience of the MiFID? On the one hand, it has made trading in financial instruments more user-friendly. So if someone wanted to trade in financial instruments, they could do so much more easily after the introduction of MiFID. Access to financial instruments was easier for a citizen who wanted to invest his savings and the MiFID system included investment and investor protection. MiFID itself was innovative, as it introduced new trading platforms in addition to classic stock exchange trading, such as the multilateral MTF platform, which has otherwise become a real competitor of classic stock exchange trading. As a result, transaction costs for trading financial instruments have become significantly cheaper. [[11.10]] In addition, investors not only experienced this in Europe but also in Hungary since the mid-2000s, the transaction costs were significantly lower, which at the time reached up to one and a half percent in Hungary in the case of a stock exchange transaction. By the way, they decreased to a tenth or even lower level due to the domestic spread of the MTF platform. At the same time, it is worth noting that MiFID and MTF, so this directive has really made trading in financial instruments more user-friendly, which is why a lot more people have started doing such investor activities. What we can see - the 2008 crisis has highlighted this fundamentally - is that while the protection of investors was guaranteed under the directive, this was not effective. In practice, this appeared to be an obligation for financial service providers who carried out such activities to have new investors run a so-called MiFID test with those who wanted to trade. By the way, this MiFID test was capable of measuring the investor's financial knowledge, of assessing his willingness to take risks, and of giving the investor the various rights to do so. In practical life, however, the problem was that the strictness of completing the MiFID test was not investigated by any financial service provider. In fact! Since then, the period since the 2008 crisis has shown that these providers have explicitly encouraged investors to complete these MiFID tests. So, in the end, the system has led to the fact that despite the fact that it contained investor protection and easier access, the end result of this system - the 2008 crisis has shown this well - was that very many investors lost their money, because they didn't even know what they were dealing with. This has been exacerbated by the fact that, for example, on MTF platforms, where foreign exchange could already be traded, extremely large leverages could be used. The risks of this were not even known to investors. These lessons have, of course, been drawn and supported by the Commission's new challenges that must be addressed in this area. Several people have already referred to this, as well as the Secretary of State and my fellow Members. Here it is essential to mention algorithmic trading and the need for investors to make trading data more transparent. In addition, confidence in investment activity needs to be restored in order to allow this market to move again. In fact, this is how we get to the point where we have the directive that is simply called MiFID II and we are discussing its transposition into Hungarian law. In particular, 16 laws will be amended in the context of legislative harmonisation, as has already been said, of which two will be more significant, CXX of 2001 on the capital market. law and the law on investment firms and commodity service providers and the rules governing the activities that they may carry out. It is also important to say, although this has also been said, that this does not mean a complete reflection on the regulation of the investment services sector. This means only harmonisation. The bill, as I mentioned, is trying to respond to the challenges that have arisen in recent times, and the MTF, which was an innovation at the time when MiFID was introduced, is trying to keep up with this and introduce a new trading platform, OTF. There were financial instruments, essentially financial instruments of the non-equity type, which could be traded in a non-regulated manner so far, and MiFID II wants this unregulated treatment. It's all right. He wants these financial instruments to be traded in a regulated way by introducing the OTF. So the most important amendment in the bill is that a new investment service activity is published, this is OTF. A new institution will be introduced for reporting agents, which will improve the transparency of trading data. The stock exchange regulation is also in place, for example in respect of the activities that the stock exchange can carry out or in relation to stock exchange trading law, which is, moreover, relaxed by the legislation compared to the previous one. There are also new requirements for commodity derivatives. What is important to stress is that the powers of supervisors are strengthened, which, I think, may be more effective in preventing investors' money from being protected than was done by the previous system. I therefore believe that this legislation and the harmonisation that we are now implementing in this bill will further strengthen the domestic financial intermediary system, further strengthen supervisory activities, and - although we do not yet know that, we can only hope for it - will also protect investors more effectively. Therefore, the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the legislative amendment proposal before us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-03-34	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-03-35	Mr President, Dear House, It is a little late for us to discuss some of the details of which the European Union has demanded a few years earlier in Hungary. For example, the deepening of customer information would have been very helpful when the governments called Balliberal allowed foreign exchange credit to spread and increase its volume up to tens and hundreds of times. Or, for example, when Fidesz-KDNP has done nothing on this issue for years. Now, as an EU legislative harmonisation detail, we have the package that is virtually a continuation of fiscal union, if you will, leading to the deepening of its driving and capital market union. There are obviously good, positive parts in this, so there are recommendations that we consider absolutely to be taken to heart, and there are irritating and annoying items. It is a bit offensive that Fidesz-KDNP can talk about these topics in substance when implementing something, if it implants something outside the Hungarian legal system, but unfortunately, its own ideas, especially from a consumer point of view, were less and less. So I appreciate that, where appropriate, new recommendations are now being made with regard to the representation of investors' interests, but I appreciate even more that there was now a pro-government representative who spoke about the interests of customers. This is the way to go, we should go this way. Unfortunately, this has been very rare so far. Once again, the scope of the customer information and customer demand survey has long been a deficit area that has not been dealt with in sufficient depth. There are now positive elements in this area in this proposal. If there is no breakthrough, such completely 1.0 needs may arise, such as the need to issue a written declaration of compliance to the customer of the product. The question arises immediately, of course, about what happens, for example, in the case of telephone services. However, a detailed statement of costs should be sent to the client at least once a year, covering the minimum data to be recorded. So I would like to emphasise once again that this is 1.0, so this is the level that could have been required at the core of the Hungarian market in accordance with Hungarian regulations. I also appreciate the directions that, let's say, point to the development of algorithmic trading. Any such development process could otherwise be forward-looking. I would add that this does not make it measurable and much more real performance behind the transactions we are talking about. So all of this, the capital market union as a whole, is blowing and blowing the bubble economy, and thus its operation encodes future crises. [[11.20]] So I see that this system can be cosmeticized, in many cases, there are areas where it should be, but real performance will not be behind the market processes it has not been behind, so Europe or even the next global crisis is encoded in this system as before. What we see is that all these rules made up in the EU, some of which make sense to transpose, another part of which is meaningless, and a third part of them is particularly damaging, it is not, in fact, complemented by a fair Hungarian consumer protection system, which has already been revealed at Buda-Cash, Quaestor, which could be mentioned even earlier as even smaller, but more widespread scandals, troubles, and the system of foreign exchange credit has been accompanied by the complete impotence or lack of Hungarian consumer protection. We have seen that it was a perfectly legitimate observation regarding PSZF that while the Government of Hungary imports regulatory instruments from outside it, it abolished the PSZF, which had a state leg, a state level of responsibility, behind its control powers. It has been integrated into the Hungarian National Bank, under the MNB, the whole system, the independence of which is guarded in an unwarranted way, so during the independence of the MNB there are abuses and cases considered by me to have consequences; it may not be in the current government cycle, but it is quite certain that public finance operations that occur cannot remain without consequences. What we see now is that, in addition to the abolition of the State's surveillance leg, the powers of control that are fully incompetent under the MNB are further distorting this quoted market and, from a consumer point of view, a disaster is slowly occurring, as all supervisory powers are slowly placed under the MNB whose subpoenaing independence is protected by the government by failing to do anything about their abuses. This package, which lies in front of us, therefore contains completely 1.0 good goals, such as more detailed customer information, clarification of the minimum data to be recorded, or even technical details of the development of algorithmic trading, are eligible. There are ideas leading to absolute blindside, which are much less so, and thirdly here is the action plan of the Hungarian government, which is worth considering: the destruction of consumer protection, the deterioration of consumer protection and the overshadowing of customer interests in the interests of investors. We must say, therefore, that there is a very mixed picture of this package, the one that has just been put before us, can only be one stay in this form, but also because of certain well-meaning directives, the implementation of which is at least questionable. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-36	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. The LMP Group has not indicated its wish to comment. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is no independent representative in the room, no one has applied for a two-minute speech, no one has applied for a further speech. I ask you, Honourable Parliament, if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Agnes Hornung on Anna's signal:]] It says yes. I give the floor to Secretary of State Agnes Hornung.
u2017-05-03-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Hollik for putting the legislation into context and for explaining it in a clear way, and I am also glad that we have not heard any problems that would arise in connection with this bill. I also consider the criticisms and interpretations that have been expressed here to be the challenges faced by both the world and the European Union and the Hungarian financial markets. Yes, these are the issues and challenges to which, among other things, this regulation is trying to answer. It is also worth bearing in mind that the financial market is one of the fastest-growing market segments, so the rules are constantly changing. We also see this, as the Union is constantly following these changes, and the Hungarian financial system is adapting to these changes, so it is necessary to react from time to time, and we can see this reaction in the legislative package before us. This regulation, as many of us have said, focuses essentially on transparency and customer protection, so at all levels, at all levels, it follows these main principles in front of it, and is essentially trying to serve the interests of customers in order not to face future challenges such as those we have encountered here in recent years. I would also like to say a few words about the supervision under the independent National Bank, as the supervision is constantly developing its regulation, shaping its practice, and delivering significant results, which we have also seen fundamentally in the positive perception of customers. So thank you very much for the speeches and thank you very much for your vote on this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-38	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Agnes Hornung. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, The 2014 XXII on advertising tax follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral T/14684. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-03-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Since the creation of the advertising tax, it has been the target of the European Commission since 2014, because, thanks to the range of progressive measures, companies with high turnover have had to pay a higher level of advertising tax for a certain part of their tax base that exceeds the band limits. Under the pretext of this, Brussels suspended the applicability of the advertising tax in 2015 and, therefore, the regulation was amended so that each taxable person had to apply a uniform tax rate of 5.3 per cent for a part of its tax base exceeding HUF 100 million. However, this change was not enough for the bureaucrats in Brussels, and the rule that companies whose net turnover from the publication of advertising was less than HUF 100 million would not have to pay an advertising tax was unfounded. Although no company, i.e. advertising distributors with higher turnover, had to pay taxes up to HUF 100 million of the tax base, the Commission considers that the situation is highly market-distorting, and it is considered that taxable persons with low turnover of up to HUF a few million are in the same and comparable situation with the capital-powered multinational companies. By the way, in November last year, the Brussels body also took a decision which, according to the government, was in breach of EU law, calling the Hungarian advertising tax State aid which confers an economic advantage on taxable persons with low turnover. The decision obliged Hungary to pay, with retroactive effect, to the so-called preferred small companies the amount of tax which they should not have paid or to refund to taxable persons the amount of tax which they have paid so far. The Government has appealed to the Commission's decision at the European Court of Justice, but the Commission's decision must be enforced because of our membership of the Union, and the dispute between the Government and the Commission with regard to the implementation of the decision does not have suspensive effect. [[11.30]] The 2014 XXII on advertising tax submitted to the Government at the National Assembly on 28 March. Its bill of amendment therefore primarily serves the implementation of the decision. It would not have been possible if the Commission had not taken a decision on this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, T/14684. The proposed legislation, which has been submitted to the Commission, provides for the repayment of all advertising taxes paid so far by taxable persons, in accordance with the general rules on tax reimbursement. The possibility of reimbursing the advertising tax and its conditions will be notified separately by the State tax authority on the basis of the bill. The bill also provides that no one has to pay a tax on advertising that has been declared for previous tax years but has not been paid. A further change in the context of the implementation of the Commission Decision is that the rule on the deductibility of 50% of the loss margins from the 2014 tax base is repealed. It is important to point out that the government's advertising tax target has not changed. It remains unbroken in its intention that significant advertising operators should play a prominent role in bearing social shared burdens, while the administrative costs of smaller businesses should not be increased, as they, unlike the Commission's view, are not in the same position as their competitors with significant revenue from advertising activities. Therefore, according to the bill, in accordance with EU state aid rules, net turnover will be exempt from tax as so-called de minimis aid up to HUF 100 million. A further positive change in the bill to taxable persons as regards future legislation is that the publication of so-called "own-use advertising" will not be taxable, so that the direct cost of such disclosure will not be included in the tax base. In addition, the bill also settles the rules of advertising tax payable for the 2017 tax year. In this context, it provides that the rate of the tax will be zero between 1 January 2017 and 31 May 2017 in order to ensure that no retroactive increase in the burden for any taxpayer will occur, with a uniform rate of 9 per cent from 1 June 2017. The latter rate shall be applied by taxable persons to the tax base calculated on a pro rata basis for their tax year 2017. Therefore, for the whole of 2017, the average rate is 5.25%, i.e. slightly lower than the current rate of 5.3 percent. So it's not some kind of mid-term tax increase. Moreover, given the fact that the advertising tax paid earlier is refundable, a significant overall tax reduction for 2017 can be discussed. Regardless of all this, the rapporteur is open to examine and discuss proposals on the level of advertising tax in substance. We hope, moreover, that the dispute before the European Court of Justice will end in a positive way for us, and that we can rethink not only the level of advertising tax, but also the system of advertising tax rates. As a final point, it is expected that the date of application of the new rate and the date of entry into force of the bill itself should be amended in view of the proposed day of adoption of the bill and the planned day of publication of the law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-03-40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/14684. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I would like to make the following comment to the bill amending the law. On 12 March 2015, the European Commission's Competition Directorate-General decided to initiate the formal state aid investigation procedure in Decision C 1520, while at the same time calling on Hungary to suspend the application of a discount on the range of progressive rates of advertising tax and on the deductibility of margins from the advertising tax base. On 13 May 2015, the Government decided to amend the advertising tax law, which was adopted by the Parliament. The amended Regulation shall apply from 5 July 2015. On the basis of the new rules, a uniform rate of 5.3 per cent applies instead of the previous progressive benchmark, with no tax on the tax base of less than HUF 100 million, with a tax rate of zero per cent up to this tax base. In its decision C 6929 of 4 November 2016, the European Commission concluded that the advertising tax is in breach of EU State aid rules on several points, namely its progressive rates, both the rates in force until 4 July 2015 and the subsequent rates, confer a selective advantage on certain undertakings, thus giving unfair economic advantage to low-income companies in particular vis-à-vis their competitors. The amended legislation in force from 5 July 2015 allows companies to decide for themselves whether to choose the retroactive application of the modified system of measures. The provision on the possibility of deduction of margins unduly favours undertakings which were not profitable in 2013, as stated in the Union decision. The Government did not agree with the content of this decision, whereas the Court of Justice of the European Union has brought an appeal, which the Secretary of State has already said. On 16 January 2017, Hungary submitted its request for annulment of Decision C 6929. Since the lawsuit is pending, it does not have suspensive effect on the implementation of the European Commission's decision, which is why we had to submit an amendment to this law. The Secretary of State explained the content of the bill. So I would like to point out once again that the European Commission's most important objection to this was, after all, against small advertising companies. With all due respect, I ask every faction in this House to support, together with our faction, every passage of the law amendment. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-03-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-03-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, we have a scandal law ahead of us, an attempt at a arbitrary transformation of the government's expansion of market processes. And as we know the slavish voting behaviour of the Fidesz majority, this vote will certainly take place. This is wrapped up in EU comments, but the initial problem is that Fidesz wants to use legislative instruments - using legislation as a whip, Fidesz's opportunity to pay extraordinary taxes - to make certain players in the market impossible, regulate, and thus limit the free market or the functioning of a public service-like, or at least independent, political content that it does not like. So somewhere this is one of the tools to build stealth dictatorship, stealth fascism. [[Gábor Bányai holds his head.]] You, of course, will now hold your heads, that you do not know about this. Of course, they weren't born that way, but if they read a little more about it, they might recognize how it's been in history. In this respect, it is not a rosy situation, that while Andy Vajna does not pay taxes on the most profitable gambling casino business, so billionaire taxes were voted for him not to have to pay it, but here a 9 percent extraordinary tax is clearly levied for market restructuring or market manipulation purposes, with which this business is practically completely hit. This is part of your internal war. Previously, they wanted to regulate the RTL Club and promote TV2, and now they want to put Lajos Simicska's former favourite oligarch companies in a more difficult position. [[11.40]] After the ominous G-day, which I do not want to explain here within the framework of Parliament, who swallows what, is forced to swallow after G-day, it is also reflected in such a harsh bill. So what Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, said that he was increasing the tax rate from 5.3 percent to 9 percent in June is a very harsh step, because the current law still applied a progressive solution, with a zero-percent tax rate up to HUF 100 million. Under this proposal, the advertising tax paid so far has already been classified as a so-called overpayment, so the taxpayer has to pay it back somewhere. According to general government data, this means the repayment of some HUF 23 billion to businesses for 2017 and by 31 May it provides for a zero-percent rate for advance payment. The increase is unexpected - it is almost a double, double increase - that Minister Varga declared it to the Hungarian Times just last week - you know, this is your pro-government paper, which is always telling the truth - that they are not preparing for a tax increase and then submitted it for a few days; as opposed to the opposition property tax burden, they do not think of any increase in burdens, but rather want to raise additional revenue for the budget by reducing the black economy. Although there is no doubt that, based on previous years' experience, such sayings were often followed by specific tax increases, so what you say about the tax reduction is not true overall, because personal income tax may have been reduced, which is particularly good for the higher earners, while at the same time introducing sectorial special taxes such as turnover taxes, which all people, even the smallest earners, have to pay, so it affects the Hungarian population. The timing was very unfortunate, the European Commission announced in November last year that, in its opinion, the advertising tax in Hungary is in breach of EU state aid rules, as its progressive rates give some companies a selective advantage; for example, I would refer to TV2. The decision should have been taken by January 2017 at the latest, i.e. the EU's decision, but the Government turned to the European Court of Justice and asked for the suspension of enforcement until the judgment was delivered. On 24 March, however, the bad news arrived at the Ministry of National Economy, and the application was rejected by the European Court of Justice, so the solution had to start at a rapid pace. With regard to the comments on the content, I would like to say that the European Commission made two critical points regarding the Hungarian advertising tax in its decision in November. First of all, it contested the multi-key rates; second, that the discounts favour smaller companies, since the Hungarian solution is not profit-based, but income-based, but despite the large turnover of a company, it is not certain that it works even more profitable than a small enterprise. The proposal refers to solving these problems, but it does not actually solve any of them. Even if the zero percentage rate is deleted, the tax exemption for the 100 million HUF tax base will do the same. Therefore, this advantage effectively exempts smaller undertakings from paying the tax, so that the distorted effect of the criticism does not change at all. Not that we want small businesses to pay; we would prefer that there were no such sectoral taxes at all. It's a freak. Now they're trying all kinds of tricks along a bad construction, which is why some companies are getting hit with a nine-percent advertising tax. In the Commission's view, however, income-based taxes should not be intended to take into account or actually take into account the costs incurred in achieving that turnover. Hungary has not demonstrated the alleged link between turnover and burden-bearing capacity - as it may not exist economically. There is only one reason why the tax rate will be doubled: what the government is forced to pay, it wants to take back immediately. Professional organisations, such as the Hungarian Advertising Association, recommend throwing out the entire draft, go to the trash. According to Zsolt Urbán, president of the Hungarian Advertising Association, such interference by the government in the operation of the advertising industry can have alarming consequences for market participants. The agency market will become unfunded, the financial risk of the media website will increase, and there will be a huge administrative burden for advertisers and media companies alike. Professional organisations continue to believe that the perceived economic benefits of advertising tax are far from economic disadvantages, and therefore the following professional organisations together ask the government to consider the full implementation of the advertising tax. Forget it, fellow Members. As a result, the MSZP does not propose the adoption of this bill, because, despite the propaganda that is itself the government of tax reductions, it doubles the advertising tax, which will ultimately be paid by customers, so it will hit customers. It is also not eligible to solve anything with the Government's present presentation of the problems raised by the European Commission, and the tax press is very harsh, and it continues to get ugly. Apart from the small editorials of 1-3 people, the tax burden of all companies will be twice as heavy as before, so Hungarian businesses will be close to being impossible. Don't do it, fellow Members. While the state propaganda TV2, Origo, Echo TV - which is now acquired by Lőrinc Mészáros, who is not the same as Viktor Orbán, is only his treasurer - can then compensate these organs in abundance from taxpayers' money. [[In the Jobbik expert box, a lady speaks out loud, laughs.]] So, there's no problem here, dear, with the staff in the gallery... [[The lady continues to speak out loud.]] Can't you see you're getting a little loud back there? [[The president's ringing the bell. Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-44	Thank you very much. Continue, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-45	Thank you very much. I am already at the last thought, because the gallery can actually have an opinion, and I do not deny that, it can fit into the genre of Parliament, especially if someone so pretty is. [[Defiance.]]
u2017-05-03-46	Go on, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-47	So the problem with raising the advertising tax to a double level is that those who do not benefit from your heavy compensation, such as TV2, Origo and Echo TV, are severely affected by this and thus continue to limit the freedom of the press; they are attacked by the government from the economic, financial side, spreading their arms to the fact that they are the biggest advocate of freedom of the press, but they need to be provided with public burdens. So, while restricting the freedom of the press, it is clear that the European Court of Justice will also cancel this proposal, the government, and this will mean additional billion-dollar payments to Hungary. So, in addition to completely disrupting a domestic advertising market, they violate fundamental information rights, they even succeed in not solving the problem. This will also be brought before the European Court of Justice, and you can choose not only to leave the People's Party, but also from the European Union, and impose additional burdens on taxpayers. [[11.50]] So you'll have to pay for it sometime, because sooner or later, the truth will break your way. Please recognize this now and abolish this bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Hollik [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Uh-oh!]] the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Keep your voice down.
u2017-05-03-49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for this level of socialist interest. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: It will be!]] However, I would like to stress to my fellow Member, Józsa, that the European Union and the Commission themselves have no problem with advertising tax, that they are debating certain aspects of it... [[Dr. István Józsa: We do!]] I know that. That's the difference between our economic policies, by the way. We tax companies so that we can reduce their taxes to citizens. [[Dr. István Józsa: One! Some companies!]] And by the way, we can give this money to Hungarian families and Hungarian working people. Therefore, I think that advertising tax alone as a tool is a good tool. A new innovative tool, such as the bank tax, which was attacked by a lot of people at the time, has been attacked by you, and today it is already in almost every EU country. So, in itself, I think that there is no problem with advertising tax, which the Commission or the European Union, not even Brussels bureaucrats, are attacking. Some parts of it are indeed debated, but there is a debate between the Hungarian Government and the European Union. But since we do not intend to leave the European Union, as you say, that is why we have this bill before us. After all, if we wanted to leave the European Union, we would not be fulfilling our obligations, which, by the way, are due to our membership. By the way, if you are also looking at the previous bill, which we have just discussed, we are also fulfilling our EU obligations when we are otherwise submitting a legislative proposal for harmonisation. So please refrain from making these false allegations in the future, we do not want to leave the European Union, and therefore, even if we are debating their claim, we are also fulfilling our obligations, so this bill is actually about the implementation of the European Commission's decision. To this end, the legislation provides for the refund of the advertising tax already paid under the tax refund rules. The method of enforcement is that the tax declared and paid by taxable persons paying advertising taxes for tax years closed until 31 May 2017 constitutes an overpayment under the Tax Code, the refund of which may be requested by those entitled to do so by the State tax authority under the Tax Code. Thus, the tax declared for previous tax years but not paid is not payable. The bill requires the State tax authority to notify the taxable persons entitled to the refund that the paid advertising tax is refunded. I think it's a fair proposal. Between 1 January and 31 May, in order to avoid a retroactive increase in the burden of any taxpayer, the rate of the net turnover resulting from the advertising activity as a tax base is 0 per cent and from 1 June 9 per cent, but it should also be stressed here that the publication of own-use advertising will not be taxable. And if you will allow me to make one more comment: I do not know why my fellow Member Józsa is surprised that the Advertising Federation does not want such a tax. The Banking Association didn't want a banker either. It's perfectly natural that they would be most happy to have a zero percent advertising tax, but we don't think so. So what I can say is that KDNP supports this bill, and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Volner, Head of the Group, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-03-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, we already warned that advertising tax will not stand the test of time or the European Commission - we were right. We have already established that the provisions of the tax were made in such a way that they aimed at RTL, aimed at obtaining as much of the advertising market as possible for themselves. The change in the advertising tax is also interesting as the law has changed, as the tax rate will rise from 5.3 percent to 9 percent according to the government proposal, but it is also interesting what is left out of the law. I would like to talk about these aspects here. The first and most important thing is that the advertising market itself is distorted in a brutal way by the state, as we were already used to under the government of Fidesz. So the state itself is the biggest market distorter in several economic sectors in Hungary, not the multinationals, not the large companies, but the government led by Viktor Orbán itself distorts the market to the greatest extent. The distribution of government ads is a good indicator of this, by the way. Government advertisements are created by the government in such a way that it constantly strengthens only the media close to it or which serves its interests. What might we be thinking about? First of all, consider that there is a man named Árpád Habony who, at one moment, defends himself when he is asked where he bought his high heels and women's bags - you know, in which he is shoving around Parliament, and in which he visits the Prime Minister - one moment he defends that yes, yes, he does not have any income, but he has received a large loan of HUF 20 million from an entrepreneur named András Tombor, who, by the way, is part of Fidesz's business circle, and these Italian Gucci bags and similar luxury items, antelope pants, and the devil knows what else this man wears, he bought for himself from these loans. At the next moment, we can see that the same guy is going to start starting national newspapers and owning an extensive press empire at the next moment. When you look at these wealth gains with the eyes of a normal market economy, you begin to wonder how this can happen. Of course, by serving Viktor Orbán, Árpád Habony also; I note that he and Antal Rogán were seen in the settlement bond business, as friends of the people who earned HUF 116 billion at the expense of the Hungarian state, and in this case we could see that they would draw up complete government press empires with Árpád Habony living on a loan at one moment almost homeless, with national daily and weekly newspapers at the next, simply because the government has been making sure that if this figure or the sugar daddy of the country, Andy Vajna, creates a new medium, then he will be guaranteed to live because the government's market advertisements appear on him, the government will go out to the advertising market, and only start to advertise with these people, only to support these people, and in this way the government will provide that Lokott, the 8-8 and the same TV. Anyway, the end of this process is that more than 40 lawsuits have been lost to government press over the last few months against us good-looking politicians, our privacy has been defiled by the worst slanders, everything we could have been thrown at us, they keep failing, in strings, they have a losing case every week. So what you can see is that the Orbán government itself is the best at distorting the market. By the way, if the political interests of Fidesz so desire, they will not only build up their own press empire, but when the politics of the central force is overturned, and Jobbik begins to grow stronger and is clearly a pro-changer, they will try to raise the left a little bit so that the two political powers that are not compatible with each other are more or less equalized. To this end, it was quite ridiculous to see that this guy, Lőrinc Mészáros, who is a stróman of Viktor Orbán, who is now increasingly identified by the people in Hungary, appears, buys media for himself, and is increasingly moving forward in the market by taking in Népszabadság and a bunch of county cards like a small ball. [[12.00]] Then, in order to keep the left from sinking after the end of the Népszabadság, they will start to advertise - please hold on - in Népszava, the only remaining left-wing newspaper, the government's advertisements. And when someone goes up to the surface of Népszava, you can meet with us to stop Brussels! The government's well-paid advertisements are going to try to keep the left-wing press alive in this way, because this is what it takes to preserve the central force's policy. So what we can see is that the state itself is the biggest market distorter, and it is Viktor Orbán himself, who always wants to intervene in the most brutal way in which politics and the market work. Here I would just like to remind you that his former good friend, whose neck was cut with a rusty knife not too long ago, Lajos Simicska said that when they spoke to Viktor Orbán after the elections that Viktor Orbán wanted to buy the RTL Club himself, but when Simicska told him that it would cost him a lot of money, up to HUF 100 billion, the Prime Minister said that it would be okay, then he would buy it with the money of the Russians, from Rosatom. [[János Pócs intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. It's not a small part because of these scams, because of the dirty government finances, that the Orbán government has every right to be told where the bitch is, where the bitch from which they can hope for more money is turned to. So what we can see is that in this case, too, they tried to buy Hungary's largest TV company in a way that is not permissible. I note that TV2 was also purchased in order to distort the advertising market by buying it instead of Andy Vajna by MKB, a previously state-owned bank, in which the family of the central bank took ownership with the help of the entrepreneur László Szíy, linked to Lőrinc Mészáros and Viktor Orbán, and in this way Hungary's second largest TV company could be transferred to the moonyard of the Orbán government, the media portfolio. This is the model that otherwise does not work in Europe. And I'm not talking about illiberal democracy, I'm talking about how a government behaves and the Prime Minister acts like Mátyás Rákosi in the 1950s, trying to silence, eradicate opposition voices, buy, threaten, dispose of, and in this way make sure that they are the only ones who can appear on the market. There are a number of very harsh examples. There is Dunaújváros, for example, to say nothing else, where, in a city in trouble with the legacy of the former socialist major industry, the Fidesz representatives were able to spend twenty or a few billion forints of the city's money on the tabloid Lokal, which has also lost lawsuits against better men, because he lied, slandered all over the place to distribute the tabloid Lokal from public money in this newspaper. You know, that rag you said was free, Lokal, which, by the way, is no longer free, as taxpayers themselves pay public money to maintain these papers. So what I'm saying is that Fidesz has nothing but shame on the amendment of the advertising law. They are trying to influence the advertising market itself by distorting the market in accordance with their own power interests, and this is not a small part of why Hungary looks more and more like a pathetic banana republic, because you make it like Viktor Orbán himself and his government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-03-52	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker and notary of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-03-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think we all know exactly what this bill is about, what it was about when it first came to this when it first came before the Parliament. The government thought he was punishing those media with this tax that didn't blurt out his propaganda. The ad tax was designed to force the RTL Club to leave, or to sell this company to an oligarch near the government. This law was, in the first place, an abuse of law, of legislative power. As a tax, it didn't make sense, nor did it have a regulatory effect. For example, the possible reduction of harmful advertising was neither here nor was significant revenue to the budget, since we know that it was HUF 11.7 billion that meant it. It is natural for you that the government uses such gangster methods in the process of overcoming the economy and society, but you must know that it is not natural that the legislative power acquired in the elections will be used to grate and subdue everything. It's against the country's interests. After the ad tax was delivered, the government encountered strong opposition from several sources. Retreating, slanting, grating the law has begun, which by now has become a mockery. They've invented new screws instead of erase this whole thing. There is only one legitimate point that should be settled, the large Internet advertising companies - Facebook, Google and the others - do not tax in Hungary while earning very high income from advertisers here. But apparently, the law is unsuitable for this, since it only raises the penalties that they can't collect right now. The taxing of Google and Facebook would require international but at least European cooperation, which the Orbán government is not doing so well, as they like to believe that they can solve everything on their own and that they are involved in everyone. Well, that's one thing a small nation state can't solve on its own. As far as the current concrete amendment is concerned, the change of advertising tax in January has violated EU state aid rules on several points, so the advertising tax already paid and collected must be refunded and what these companies have confessed should not be paid. And instead of accepting that this tax is unnecessary and irretrievable in this form, the government continues to twist it, causing more damage. In the beginning, it amends the rules retroactively, i.e. from 1 January 2017, and it has to be calculated in an incredibly complicated way in terms of the amount to be paid in broken years. Such administrative burdens are always disproportionate to small entrepreneurs, and, as we have mentioned, essentially for nothing, since their budget revenue is minimal, the whole is designed to make the RTL Club impossible. Yet, they burden businesses to maintain appearances. In the meantime, it is raised from 5.3 percent to 9 percent, which, in addition to being incomprehensible because it does not represent a significant increase in revenue, can cause a particular serious problem for individual companies and businesses. There is also a rather sly part of the amendment, which is that it is not true that smaller companies with turnover below HUF 100 million are exempt from the tax. They only receive so-called discounts, which must be deducted from other so-called de minimis subsidies. This is a significant part of EU development aid. So if you receive development aid exceeding a certain limit in a tender, you will have to pay the advertising tax. In addition, the framework for such aid is set at three years, so three years of cumulative aid is considered. To sum up, with this amendment, the waste is still being pushed forward, putting unnecessary burdens on businesses. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-03-54	Thank you very much, Congressman Ikotity. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent congressman is not present. Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In a normally functioning country, in normally functioning countries, in a normally functioning democracy, it is only natural that the state or the municipality is taxing activities, assets and services in its jurisdiction. [[12.10]] And that is why we do not really have a problem with the government taxing advertising, for example, but what we see here as a legislative product. If we were to apply politically correct wording, we might say that we are encountering a very creative legislative product that is typical of Fidesz, and if we were to put it in a crude reality, we would see that we would once again call it personalised legislation, but I would rather say that we are talking about company-specific legislation. A lot of keynote speakers mentioned tax rates, tax bases, numbers and amounts. The essence of this bill is very simply and briefly that the government wishes to tax media that are also engaged in advertising activities that it does not like, which are not his propaganda, which is not his chariot, and everyone else who is... - and Mr Volner explained how he was in the built media empire and put it in a favourable position. After all, a person can be put in a favourable position if he is stuffed with public advertisements, and it does not fall under the advertising tax, and it is possible to put someone at a disadvantage by not strangling them or making them impossible, but by putting them in a difficult position. So that's what we're dealing with here, that's what this bill is about. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-56	Thank you, Congressman. Two minutes to speak, Congressman Gábor Bányai, Fidesz.
u2017-05-03-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would just like to point out that Congressman Józsa has once again hit that certain one and is calling for fascism and stealth dictatorship when it should be taxed, let us say, a sector that is on a good track for development, since in 13 it is 175 billion, in 14 it is 189 billion, in 15 it is 194 billion and last year it has gone over HUF 200 billion net in the annual advertising market in Hungary in terms of its revenue. It's a well-functioning, developing sector. Why can't you tax? They tax more than 200 countries around the world. If they tax, is there a dictatorship there? Is it fascism if we tax some kind of income that otherwise might not come back into the budget? It was a 5.3 per cent tax earlier, to which you said, Mr Ikotity - although he left - that it was HUF 17.7 billion in revenue, i.e. small. I'm the one telling you that any revenue that increases the budget, whether it's small or bigger, is good revenue, so let's increase it, let's not cut down on small revenues. And now that they've brought Ripper and Simicska and RTL and everyone, please, everyone will pay taxes on their income. In fact, it's not 5.3, it's 9. Once again, I would like to ask you that both high-income and low-income advertising operators will also pay the same tax. It is not true that a small percentage should be taxed, since the Secretary of State has said how tax can be saved and avoided within the limits of the de minimis procedure. So I respectfully ask you not to call for dictatorship when it comes to taxes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I cannot speak for two minutes, Congressman Józsa, but for a normal speech. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman Józsa.
u2017-05-03-59	Thank you very much, then in a normal speech. You speak, Congressman Banai, as if it were about taxation. My fellow Member! These companies are taxing. Corporate tax is paid every year. The tao will be paid to your kissers. So here's a healthy, really beautiful, about 200 billion-dollar market, from which you, your own kissers, want to rip out more; by hitting the others with a nine-percent tax, and the rest, you just read in the paper that the Rogans will be getting another $5 billion this year in addition to their 95 billion commercial spending. Who are they gonna spend it for? For your kissers. That's why I say fascism, dear, when you're not alive, and you have no idea what's going on; I've lived in the curse, and I've experienced these mechanisms on my own skin, how unpleasant they are. So you're using the tools of economic arrogance to overpower certain companies. These companies are paying taxes, you're charging extra taxes, and here comes your next big fucking lie, all paid by the buyer. Because the only way this company can pay you is if you collect it from somewhere. This, since it is revenue-related, not profit-related, does not work on how good it is, but will be imposed on the customer directly. And yet another reason why this stealth fascism is: because somewhere the most human right to freedom of opinion will be smeared in the mud. When the Origo was once a normal organ, they bought it with my sundae coat, bought it with Matolcsy's money, and now it's a government mouthpiece. So you guys get off this road. They won't be proud of it in a few years. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I note that no further comments have been made. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2017-05-03-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the two pro-government speakers for their support, so let us trust that Parliament will receive a majority in the vote. The three opposition parties' speeches were, in my opinion, the most political approach. [[Dr. István Józsa: And the presentation!]] The MSZP representative has also given some professional voice to his comments, so I would like to try to respond to that now. So the question is, is this a tax increase? You have also said, Mr President, that the state will repay more than HUF 20 billion; the advertising tax paid so far must be repaid to the undertakings concerned. If we compare this with the fact that, on 1 June, the bill is not likely to come into force or the law itself, let's assume that on 1 July 9 percent will enter into force, or a reduced amount - because in my expo, I also said that the author was open to the fact that 9 percent could continue to decline, but this was not interested in opposition speakers - but if 9 percent would remain, then the tax rate for this year would be 4.5 percent per year instead of 5.3 percent so far. If you pay 9 percent in the year next year and we look at this at macro level, you will still not reach 20 billion in revenue, even in 2019. I also said that the case is before the European Court of Justice and that the European Court of Justice will say something. It may also be that we hope that the government is fundamentally right and that the original regulation will be legal and legal. Then it can be arranged. Obviously, until the judgment of the European Court of Justice is reached, no one will pay any more advertising taxes, so you can play with the percentages, but this is certainly not a tax increase. And the opinion that it would be good if it were not, is a natural opposition opinion. When the MSZP is in opposition, it says there is no need to pay taxes. It gives him the feeling that he has no sense of responsibility for the country's public services. The MSZP does not have to organise public services, it is not responsible for the revenue from the central budget or for its expenditure, so it is possible to say that it would be best not to have a tax on advertising, there would be no personal income tax, and there would be no tax at all. I can't take that opinion seriously. The opinion that the European Union will throw this back is not true. Every pass of this bill is in agreement with the European Union, which the European Union will and must accept. On the basis of the speech, I must say to you that you are still on the side of the multinationals, and you are protecting the multinationals by not having to pay advertising taxes to high-income companies, which, of course, we do not agree with. [[12.20]] Congressman Vona is not here, but Mr Volner presented Jobbik's position, which was a total political opinion. The Member obviously did not read the bill, so he gave a clear political opinion and, if I may, I could give a political opinion. Jobbik, who has turned into a advertising party in the last few weeks, has become a poster party and a advertising party. The Jobbik that accepts the support from Lajos Simicska, essentially from the Simicska Party [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] , accepts the advertising platform, but the question of how much they advertise, how much and how they will pay is, of course, unable to answer. He accepts the support from the Simicska Party against whom Jobbik initiated the establishment of a committee of inquiry in the National Assembly in 2012. You may want to divert attention from becoming Simicska's mouthpieces, but if you go out into the street, you can see that you can't deny it. The position of the LMP does not need to be addressed, as LMP is not in the room. [[Sallai R. Benedek, from the expert box: I'm here!]] On the other hand, one of their representatives said that he would finish politics in 2018, because of what he said in recent years, people were not paying attention, and after he could not convince people that he was telling the truth and the truth, he withdrew from politics. This may have been the congressman who spoke, but it may not. Overall, the issue of advertising tax is on the agenda from 2014. Hopefully we will now be at a stage by voting in favour of the law, which the European Union can accept, and then we will wait for the decision of the European Court of Justice, and then we will finally settle the fate of the advertising tax. Thank you, everyone, and we look forward to the support of the pro-government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-03-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows that Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/15370. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-03-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that animal welfare is also an EU value, which is included in Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that differences in the legislation of the Member States relating to animal testing may impede trade in products and materials the development of which involves animal testing, the European Parliament and Council Directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes was published on 22 September 2010. This Directive contains provisions and Member States should transpose them into their national law by 10 November 2012 and apply them from 1 January 2013. The European Commission has assessed the adequacy of the transposition of the Directive for all Member States and has found a shortcoming for several Member States. The Commission launched an EU pilot procedure in autumn 2016 due to shortcomings identified in the case of Hungarian legislation. In order to comply with the provisions of the Directive, our country has made a formal undertaking to amend the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Animals in its reply to the Commission. The amendments resulting from the commitments made to the Commission thus form the backbone of the bill we are discussing. Dear House, In addition, the bill includes amendments relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Rules Act and the Administrative Rules Act, as well as amendments made necessary for legal reasons, and also aims at resolving some of the problems that arise in the application of the law. However, it is very important to emphasise that, by submitting this bill, the amendment to the Animal Protection Act cannot be considered to be closed. Consultation with civil society organisations is ongoing with regard to further amendments. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr President, I hope I do not disturb the Members who are speaking behind me. Dear Parliament, The bill re-regulates the most basic rules of the animal testing authorisation procedure in order to complete the EU pilot procedure, thus setting deadlines for the administration of the animal testing procedure. It shall ensure that only an animal experiment is launched which is evaluated and proposed by the Scientific Veterinary Ethics Council, acting as an expert. The bill shall also ensure that only breeders, suppliers and users who are authorised by the animal protection authority are allowed to operate, or, where the breeder, supplier and user no longer meets the conditions laid down in the permit, the animal protection authority may withdraw the authorisation. The bill re-regulates the concept of animal cruelty in order to solve problems arising in the application of the law, in which it expresses that animal abuse is prohibited under all circumstances, not only in cases where this is unnecessary or causes pain. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will be able to respond to what you have not heard now. The bill re-regulates the concept of animal cruelty in order to solve the problems that arise in the application of the law, as I mentioned. By tightening the concept of abuse of an animal, the authority does not need to investigate whether abuse is considered unnecessary. Dear Parliament, In parallel with these amendments, it was also necessary to review the structure of the Animal Protection Act, so that provisions on the national electronic database of local authorities, the national electronic database of dogs marked with transponders, the general rules of the official procedure and control, as well as the measures and consequences will be laid down in a separate chapter of the Animal Protection Act. The provisions on stray animals caught in the inner area of the settlement, as well as the general rules on the operation of breeders, suppliers and users for experimental purposes, will be placed in a separate chapter, taking into account their specific characteristics, thus making the law more transparent and easier to manage. The bill includes the measures laid down in the Government Decree on certain tasks and powers of the notary of municipal authorities concerning the protection of animals and the registration of animals in the provisions of the Animal Protection Act. These are the following: an obligation to carry out certain construction works to ensure the proper and safe disposal of the animal and to prevent its escape, an obligation to carry out, tolerance and stop the specified activity, and a restriction and prohibition of the keeping of animals. [[12.30]] In this way, all animal welfare authorities will be designated for the application of those measures and will be able to exercise them in respect of the tasks arising from the Animal Protection Act. This will enable them to perform animal protection tasks more effectively. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I would ask that the Parliament discuss the bill before us, that Members contribute with their contributions to the fact that the legislation on animal protection is indeed appropriate. I ask you to support the proposal submitted by the government. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-03-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Mr. President, Dear Secretary of State, T/15370. Regulation No XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals We have also heard amendments to the Act in Mr Secretary of State's national expozee. The bill primarily transposes European Union directives into the Hungarian legislative environment and, on the other hand, clarifies the animal protection law by technical corrections. Just a few content from the amendment of the law, please allow me to highlight what is essential for all of us, especially for local government leaders. The following subheading is added to the Act on the Protection and Welfare of Animals: General rules on stray animals caught in the interior of the village in the framework of dog control activities. These details will regulate the measures and the legal consequences of animal testing and the operation of breeders, suppliers, users. The financial coverage of animal welfare tasks will be clarified. According to that law, the public financial resources for the performance of public tasks and the support of municipal tasks are the funds earmarked for animal protection in the central budget and the contribution of the police. We consider IX important. In Chapter I, animal protection training, appropriate behaviour, care, animal knowledge should be integrated into primary school training, vocational training and awareness-raising. The amendment also regulates local government tasks and the general rules of the measures can be found in 44/A. Paragraph 5. The animal protection authority and the nature protection authority may require the keeper to carry out certain construction work to prevent the animal from being properly and safely placed and escaped; in the event of an infringement of animal protection legislation, they may require the specified act to be carried out, to be tolerated and to cease; they may restrict and prohibit the keeping of animals. The amendment of the law is about the consequences. Any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of animal protection legislation or official decision by reason of his or her activities or omissions shall be liable for the weight, repetition of his or her behaviour and, in particular, for the nature and duration of the animal harm. The animal protection penalty shall be imposed by the animal welfare authority. In addition, X/E. Chapter III sets out the role of the prosecutor in animal protection. In the event of a breach of animal protection legislation, the prosecutor may bring an action on the activity, on the prohibition, on the compensation of damage caused by the activity. In addition, Article 245/1998 concerning certain tasks and powers of the notary of municipal authorities concerning the protection of animals and the registration of animals. The tasks set out in the government decree will rise to a legal level. In accordance with the directives adopted, animal testing requirements are tightened, and the concept of animal cruelty will be more precise and stricter. I also consider it important to clarify certain rules for dangerous animals. Proposals raised from the level of regulation to the statutory level will allow for more effective performance of the animal protection and police tasks concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is supported by the Fidesz fraction. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow opposition Members for their support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-66	Thank you very much, Congressman János Pócs. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-03-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, More than a year after the protest of ten thousand people, which was held by animal defenders, animal welfare organisations and citizens committed to animal protection, because they regard what is happening today in animal protection as a matter of law and practice, as an outrage, this is not what we expected. This is not what we expected after more than a year of alleged consultation with civil society organisations and animal protection organisations. I also note that we have asked Mr Völner, on behalf of the factions, many times to involve us, opposition groups, in these discussions. They've got deaf ears. Thus, man is not firsthand, but, of course, metaphorically aware of what has happened there, of the processes that have taken place. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, because you have not in any way indicated why all the amendments are not coming here now. Why do they use this rather thin bill that scratches the surface and the surface of the problems? Not just for us, but for the ten thousand protesters who were present at the time, and for the hundreds of thousands of people, perhaps even millions, for whom animal protection is a priority area. Who really takes the sentence of Gandhi seriously and means it. 'Cause from what I can see, you're not. It's been a year, over a year since this protest took place. I do not think that in a year it is possible not to put a proposal that is significantly more complex and responsive to the problem here on the table. Mr. Secretary, the problem is that we know you and we don't trust you. Not a single one. Not a bit. You guys do it all the time. When there is a serious problem, instead of thinking about solving it, they put an alternative solution on the table, which is similar to that of treating it, and then when you ask me back, that, please, you promised me that we would do this, you would refer me back to the fact that, well, Congressman, it has already happened; there is the proposal that we have accepted, the Parliament has accepted. You are constantly pointing to the future so that the government can solve these problems. That's what they did in animal protection. We have tabled a number of opposition laws in the context of animal protection, especially as regards the amendment of the Criminal Code, which, I note, does not even contain traces of this proposal - otherwise I will put it in parentheses that this is why they protested outside the square, for nothing else - and then come up with such a proposal. And I say that this is what they will do in the next year, while you are on the government - I hope no more - that you will point back to this, because, Congressman, we have already dealt with the problem. Well, here's the amendment to the Animal Protection Act and other laws. Of course, and once again, they will point out that we will continue to deal with this in the distant future. Mr. Secretary. Do you know why this is interesting, and do you know why this is outrageous? In a terrible way? That's because animal rights people, I know they have a package of proposals. They have not only these problems, but also a complete package of proposals for all the others. [[12.40]] It is something that has been formulated as a result of a lengthy and multi-circumstantial consultation with the Ministry of Justice, 45 pages, let me also say that, to be specific. Moreover, Mr Secretary of State, the Ministry of Justice is well aware of this proposal, because the organisations have submitted it to him. Let me also add, Mr Secretary of State, that the wallet has promised to put this proposal into inter-wallet consultation and bring it to Parliament. I would like to ask you if you have had this proposal. If not, then the Ministry of Justice has lied to animal rights, if you have the proposal, it is especially strange that you have brought this to us in this package. It is all the more interesting, Mr State Secretary, because you obviously do not think that we are not in contact with more serious animal protection organisations from the opposition groups. I've had the pleasure of asking directly or indirectly a representative of a major organisation if they know what they think of this law. You know what they said, Mr. Secretary? That they read it inquisitively when they submitted it to Parliament. It means you didn't consult with anyone involved in this. Why not? I hope you will respond, Mr Secretary, and not in the closing words, but when you can still respond to what you say. I believe, even if the two proposals were to be separated, the minimum expectation would have been to consult with animal protection organisations that have been visiting the Ministry of Justice for a year to discuss the amendment of animal protection legislation with the government. And you guys behind your back in another department are gonna make a mess. You know, Mr Secretary of State, when you say you're doing this on the basis of the EU directive, let me ask you how you've been able to wake up, because it's an EU Directive 2010 and now it's 2017. The provisions contained in this directive should have entered into force by 10 November 2012 on the basis of the EU Directive, transposed into the Hungarian legal system. Did the transplant go that bad, or didn't they do enough? But if that's the case, why do you feel the need to submit a package of animal protection laws on this point right now? Probably because you do not really want to amend the laws on animal protection in substance, Mr Secretary of State, you do not want to give Parliament the opportunity to amend that which, by the way, was negotiated with civil society organisations in the Ministry of Justice. You know, Mr Secretary, there is already a very good example of this, and let me just say that it is a very bad example. That's what you did with civil procedure, civil procedure. For a long time, however, they consulted with university instructors, practitioners, representatives of the courts, prosecutors, and lawyers, and then they threw this proposal into the trash, and then they brought their own proposal, a proposal that did not reflect the position of this professional group at all, and they even did the dirty thing of calling back on how long and wide it was otherwise. But I can give you another example, and that was the debate of the new Fundamental Law, where they used the same technique. An ad hoc committee for the preparation of the constitution was made of a wall, there they listened to a lot of positions, opinions from civil society organisations, parties, and all the other parties involved in this conciliation, and then you drew a completely different text of the constitution from the hat, and submitted it to Parliament, and said that the position and accepted proposals of the ad hoc committee for the preparation of the constitution could then serve as a guide or help for the codification of each party to submit their own proposal. We know these sanctimonious and man-made techniques, Mr. Secretary of State. If you'll tell me again, I'll ask why the two bill proposals didn't come in together, when the negotiations were already at such a level that it could have been done calmly. So the problem isn't basically what's in it, it's the method you're applying. That is what - I think - makes it very important to think at all about what is in such a bill. I would also like to ask you that, if we are really talking about social needs, and you are constantly referring to the opinion of society, the social need is that, of course, there is a need to amend certain sectoral legislation on animal protection, and it is good that these changes are being made, yet, in particular, tens of thousands have protested for the amendment of the Criminal Code. Tell me, Secretary of State, why this is not part of the package of proposals. Very funny, I can see you smiling, laughing at yourself, Secretary of State. [[Interview from Fidesz: This monologue!]] You know, the problem isn't that the opposition doesn't listen to what you're saying with ears and discipline, Mr. Secretary, but you know what that cynical attitude you're showing is that cynical smile that's coming out of your face right now, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Interviews from Fidesz: He doesn't even smile!]] It doesn't matter. He smiled 30 seconds ago. Sorry for the mistake, fellow Member. [[Defiance and intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: But he doesn't smile now!]] The cynical smile that appeared on the Secretary of State's face 30 seconds ago, is that okay with you? [[Interviews from Fidesz: How do you know? He's sitting with his back! No suggestions?]] All right, I'm happy for you. It's this attitude that's unacceptable. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I hope that you will comment on this subject in substance. You know, Congressman, what you are doing right now is becoming a good thing for society to be outraged and pissed off by the fact that on a subject that is extremely important to many citizens of Hungary, you are showing such an attitude. Wow, congratulations. This is the cynical attitude that not only characterizes the government, but also a lot of Fidesz MEPs, it seems to be you, too. It's okay, it's your problem, not mine. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up once again, this law is, therefore, an outrage in the circumstances of the submission. My fellow Member will also talk about what is in fact beyond the EU directive, because, of course, the transposition of this directive seven years ago, which motivated you, you know, when I believe you, Mr Secretary of State... - so you will also give a substantive criticism of the law. In any case, I say that we will probably not be able to support this law because of its circumstances. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-68	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-03-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The animals are a large, disenfranchised, mute majority, which can only survive with our help. " - said the famous British zoologist, and his warning must remain with us. I am convinced that the value of a society's moral and legal standards is, among other things, how it treats its animals and its surrounding animals, the living creatures it regards as its property and those with which it shares a common area. From time to time, the media is forced to report animal cruelty. This is the first time that we are horrified, and then we look at the terrible sequences of images with indignation. It's shocking to face the desecration of a human being. In these cases, we often feel that even more stringent, even tougher laws and their effective application are needed. This objective, better action against animal torturers, more effective protection and welfare of animals, is served by the bill before us. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There is no such provision!]] which, under all circumstances, prohibits the use of animals. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Where's the penalty?]] Our important goal with this legislative amendment is to involve nature protection authorities in the noble but difficult task of animal protection. [[12.50]] The public policy objective pursued by this proposal is set out in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, the transposition of which means the completion of the EU pilot procedure, as established by the European Commission. It also includes Article XXVIII of 1998 on the protection and welfare of animals. Laws also need to be amended for legal reasons. The provisions of the Directive had to be transposed by Member States into national law by 10 November 2012 and applied from 1 January 2013. In January 2013, the Commission launched a infringement procedure, which was closed in July 2014 with the notification of the legislation implementing the full transposition of the Directive, since Hungary did not transpose the provisions of the Directive by the deadline set. The Commission subsequently assessed the adequacy of the transposition of the Directive for all Member States. At the request of the EU, the Commission asked the Hungarian Government for information on its position on the contested transposition provisions and asked for a timetable for carrying out the legislative tasks to be undertaken and a presentation of how the Commission would be kept informed. Finally, he asked the Hungarian Government to announce the new legislation adopted in the meantime to transpose the directive. In order to comply with the provisions of the Directive, our country has made a formal commitment to the Commission in its reply to the Animal Protection Act and the 40/2013 Animal Studies Act. a multi-point amendment of the government decree. This proposal also aims at resolving some of the problems that arise in the application of the law through legislation. In addition, the submission contains the 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. Law 1 and the amendments related to the entry into force of Act I of 2017 on Administrative Rules of Procedure on 1 January 2018. The provisions of the bill do not create a new public task, but do not create any new tasks and competences of the notary of the local government concerning the protection of animals and the registration of animals 245/1998. The introduction of measures laid down in the government decree into the Animal Protection Act will allow animal protection authorities, nature conservation authorities, to be designated for the application of these measures and thus to carry out their tasks more effectively. Mr President, Dear House, Once again, I stress that the legislation before us states that animal abuse is prohibited under all circumstances, not only in cases where this is unnecessary or causes pain. According to a saying attributed to Pythagoras, as long as man is a ruthless destroyer of lower living things, he will not know health or peace. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would also like to quote Mahatma Gandhi: "The greatness and moral development of a nation is faithfully reflected in the way she treats animals. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the vote on the bill before us, and I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-70	Thank you, Congressman László Earth. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Egyed, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2017-05-03-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, After these great quotes that we have heard, I would like to put the debate back on the ground a little bit, because the problems here are much bigger than those raised here by my fellow members of the Government. Because this bill, which you have tabled, intends to amend the Animal Protection Act, but unfortunately, it has to be stated that it is useless, fit for nothing. I do not want to go all the way back to the stove, but I cannot do this without mentioning a few words about what my fellow Member Barondy has already said. Last February, a crowd of ten thousand appeared here before the National Assembly, and all they demanded was that so many people preferred it, and I think there should be substantial progress in this country on the issue of animal protection, which is very important for all people with good feelings, because Hungary is a member of the European Union, but unfortunately, I must say that we are decades behind the European Union on the issue of animal protection, if not a century. And that's not a slogan, that's a fact. But back to what I had just started with this demonstration, the result was that Secretary of State Völner announced a consultation with animal protection organisations, and you promised to make changes on this issue. I know a lot of animal rights organizations that attended this meeting. Do you know what happened, fellow Members? The Secretary-General Völner listened to them, asked for proposals from them, and the proposals were placed in file room 2. Do you know what file room 2 is? The trash can. So they didn't give a damn what they said, and then they come up with a bill like this almost a year and a half, which, in effect, I think doesn't advance the case of animal protection, but there are some points in it that give rise to obvious suspicions based on your administration. I would like to start by saying that a significant part of the law is all about how, how, and the technical regulations of animals kept for experimental purposes. I do not want to talk about this, because this is my opinion, this is the opinion of the Jobbik faction, but I think that the opinion of at least one million other people in Hungary is that we reject all types of experimentation with experimental animals and do not consider it to be XXI. It's a civilized thing of the century. The other very important thing that I would like to highlight from this bill, and which also gives rise to suspicion on the basis of your work so far, is the question of the Ebbó, which appears in this proposal with great emphasis. As I understand it, and my information does not deceive me, I have already had the opportunity to do so, but perhaps I can count on one hand how many municipalities have made use of this opportunity in Hungary to introduce the Ebbó institution. Gentlemen, I do not think that right now, in the spring of 2017 Hungary - unlike your opinion that Hungary is performing better, but it is necessary to come to the countryside - that person who is a small pensioner who lives from HUF 70-80,000, or a man who earns HUF 52 thousand in public work, just because he keeps a watchdog to protect his crops and porters, he should still have an extra tax on his neck so that this collected money lands somewhere in the big hat. I do not think that this is necessary, and I think that this would have only one consequence if the municipalities introduced this in bulk: the result would be that in a week or two or months the streets, the fields and the forest would be full of stray dogs, because these animals would simply be allowed to go on their way, because they would not be able to accept the costs of thousands or even tens of thousands of forints, they would not be able to solve it from the family register. Another very important thing I wanted to say is that obviously there are items in this bill that may seem like a good idea. I would like to mention here that animals caught within the settlements will be owned by the state after two weeks. It's a good thing, I think, and it's a good thing. So far, this role, and it is likely that it will continue to be a significant part of the animal protection organisations and civil shelters, but I believe that this would be a Eligible initiative if the animal who has been caught and has become the property of the state would be guaranteed a further fate. What will be the fate of that animal? 14 days go by, on the 15th day, they're gonna kill him, or what's gonna happen to him? [[13.00]] Here, there was a need for a guarantee that civil society organisations and shelters would carry out continuously to keep the animal until it was delivered to the right owner. The other important topic, and here the law also covers it, is the register of chisel-marked animals, the transponder-marked animals - mainly dogs - here we are talking about. I think that there are huge problems here, and personally I have found several dogs that have been examined and looked at by a veterinarian, there was also a chip in it, but it was not assigned to a name or owner. Unfortunately, this is the responsibility of the veterinarians, since it would be their duty to provide the animal with an identification to register it properly. Unfortunately, this does not happen in many cases, and this is the result of such problems, even though the owner may be waiting for that animal to come home, because he has wandered away, so this situation is very difficult, and from now on it seems quite impossible. The other important thing I'd like to say here is a few words, and it's kind of ambiguous, and it caused a collision. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Paragraph 2 of the Act concerns the right of civil society organisations to sue; with the new law, with the introduction of the new law, I would ask why this loses its scope. This is a very important issue here, because I believe that this proposal that you have tabled will be capable of making it difficult or, where appropriate, impossible for animal protection organisations that are fighting a daily windmill fight to save these unclaimed animals or farm animals. It would therefore be very important to clarify this as soon as possible and to correct it. The third thing I think we need to talk about is that you referred to it here, and in recent times you have proudly said that 30 million forints have been allocated to finance animal protection opportunities. Now, I take the risk of saying that I have probably gained more experience in these matters over the years, decades, than even the author of this, because I am trying to save unclaimed animals in civilian life, not only with words, but also with actions. And it is important to note here, and I would like to stress this, that I, as the advocate of the animal protection round table, have received a complete picture of the animal protection situation here, which I believe very few people in this House are aware of. I would also like to say a few thoughts about this, because it also says a lot about your attitude. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Last time, I submitted a proposal to allocate HUF 1 billion from the budget for a national neutering operation, because - who is not so familiar with this subject - this is the alpha and omega of the whole animal protection, because if we could do this once, so that non-breeding animals would not remain sexual, then the problem would virtually disappear, because there would be no unwanted growth. And do you know what happened? I submitted this proposal and published it in the debate on the Committee on Agriculture as rapporteur. And do you know what your committee president Alexander Font said in the debate? He said that Jobbik now targeted dogs after different races, we want to neuter everyone, but he knows the solution: let's wait a few lifetimes, because in his opinion, in a few lifetimes, dogs will be able to communicate with humans, and then we'll ask them. [[György Szilágyi: Bravo! Clap and shine in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how serious is this attitude on such an important subject? Unfortunately, what I have come to believe is that the Committee on Agriculture works like a stand-up association, and that's what I, as a non-agricultural committee member, unfortunately, came out of this. And from this point forward, ladies and gentlemen, any proposal you have tabled is very difficult to take seriously on any subject, because when the man is confronted with this and obviously faced with this metaphorically, you can imagine what opinions these organisations have been making, which have been working on this for decades, if they take their work so seriously. I have talked about it, and I think that now, before the budget debate, it would be time to talk about it in any way; there is the possibility, that this problem could be solved from a billion forints. I believe that where a hundred billion forint stadiums grow out of the earth for 200 million On such an important subject, one billion forints cannot be made in order to put this thing in order in the country. So again, I ask you to keep this clear. Finally, I do not want to abuse anyone's time here either, but also referring to my fellow Member, Mr Barándy, which he has already mentioned, the biggest problem with this proposal is that it does not open gaps to solve the really important problems. Because here, if it were really important for us to protect animals, today, ladies and gentlemen, we would be debating not the Animal Protection Act, but the Btk. We would like to debate about the fact that there are more cases of animal cruelty on a daily basis, and perhaps two or three imprisonments have been imposed so far, not more. I was just talking about the stove here, and it could go as far as possible, so here the law gives us some opportunity, and here we are talking about a law enforcement problem, because for some reason the judges are afraid to impose a prison sentence. I have already tabled a number of legislative amendments to this, but I will not give up, I will continue to submit them until we get to the finish line, because I believe that, in the case of classified animal torture cases, the possibility to give the judge suspended imprisonment, because it has educational value and an example, and towards society, I believe that there is an appropriate message that should such perpetrators be put behind bars. And by the way, the ten people who appeared here a year and a half ago in front of Parliament had no other desire or request for you, for us, but for this to happen, that is what we are doing. And I think that if you really care about the issue of animal protection, then you will support the opposition proposals in this regard, and you will do so, and you will stand next to this cause, because I do not think that this is exactly the case that should be made political, and I think that every good-hearted person should have a heart. I have talked about the problems of animal protection here before, but finally I would like to say that I would like to ask you not only because you think that you must, but also actually listen to the demands and cry out of animal protection organisations, and do so, and here I would like to say, in front of everyone, on the next animal protection round table, which will be in about three weeks, I will invite representatives from all groups who deal with animal protection. I trust that the ruling party will also be represented at this event, and I hope that the questions raised there will be answered. In fact, if you care about animal protection, there was a civil initiative here in front of Parliament yesterday, which stands by the Animal Protection Act and the Btk. tightening, and was initiated by a very dear friend of mine. For the next two weeks, I will bring you from these sheets to be signed, and if you, fellow Members, really care about animal protection, I would ask you to prove and sign these sheets. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai, the lead speaker of the LMP Group, is coming to a speech. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.10]]
u2017-05-03-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A lot of people came here with all kinds of quotes, and if you'll excuse me, I'd like to start with a joke. The joke begins with the collaboration of the theologian, the lawyer who hasn't done a proper job since 90, who only mayor, a gasman and a pastry chef, and they create an animal protection law. This could be a great joke, the problem is that it's not a joke, it's people who have no real experience in this area in their lives, and they start to legislate without doing anything like this before. So this joke, which is now before us, can obviously raise questions in many respects, as my opposition fellow Members have already said in part, but the most important question is why it is called animal protection, why it is not called some kind of dog law, because it is intended to give us permission to beat dogs to death. So it's safe to give you a completely more appropriate name for that, and then maybe this thing would be a little more appropriate. But to begin with the speeches, Mr Secretary of State asked us here, in his speech, if it did not bother us to speak, if it would be okay for him to continue at any other time, so it does not bother me any more than when we ask questions, we interpel, and we do not hear our own voice from the party of government. So, at other times, feel free to continue, so we can roughly imagine what you're reading. I take this issue sensitively because, by representing several factions, representing civil society organisations, the Committee on Sustainable Development has also convened earlier animal protection organisations, as did my fellow Member Zsolt Egyed at another forum, our fellow Member Bárándy represented himself, the factions came, they had opinions, animal protection organisations sat down, they made proposals, Minister of State Pál Volner assured us that... [[György Szilágyi: Völner!]] - Pál Völner, I'm sorry. -... Secretary of State Pál Völner assured us that this would be taken care of by the Ministry of Justice, and a year has passed by bringing us legislation that should have been brought before the Hungarian Parliament by 2012. That was mentioned by my fellow Member, Barándy. So that's nonsense. You are making voiceful speeches here and you are using quotes to emphasise your animal rights, while you have failed to fulfil your fundamental obligation to bring this directive to Parliament in the last five years, at any time in six years, in accordance with the requirements arising from European Union legislation. This frivolity, and this is another joke when we talk about it. When we talk about baselines... It didn't occur to me, even though I wanted to tell you how good it would have been to have an electrical engineer, the chairman of the Agriculture Committee, joined this threesome, because then the professional guard would have been really full to deal with animal protection. But I will tell you a professional who has dealt with it: with the support of Fidesz and with your mandate, Dr. Gyula Bándi, professor of law, at international level, legal scientist in environmental law, used as a basic material for publications in all Hungarian education and environmental law education, and now he has sent a resolution to the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development after seeing our committee join in the detailed debate. The first point is that although legislation would do such tasks as a result of legislative requirements, unfortunately no one contacted the Ombudsman's office, and no one asked what their opinion would be about legislation, and the Deputy Ombudsman resents that. I also resent this here in Parliament, and I ask why, if you are serious about this, at least the authorities who would be at your disposal do not ask for your opinion. Then he mentions three problems in his request, which basically raise constitutional issues. First of all, in relation to the activities of the local police, Article 4 of the draft. Article 24/G of the Law refers to Article 24/G of the Law. As regards paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Act, this allows the life of the dog captured to be extinguished. Although it does not contain detailed rules, it only says that there will be a decision to do so later, but now it says:. In the event of failure to provide accommodation or transfer ownership, the life of the animal may be extinguished in a legally defined case. However, it does not provide for how long it is possible, and the solution raises legal certainty about its application, since the authorised entity does not receive any means on the basis of this package of legislation to implement it. Second, the renowned lawyer mentions that the draft is set out in Article 6. § 32 of the Act, which complements certain procedural issues with the provisions of Article 32 of the Law on animal testing. It also concerns legal certainty, in a misunderstanding manner. According to the relevant amendment, the deadline for administration is 6 days - it is in paragraph 1a - and the following paragraph 1b makes it clear that the deadline is accompanied by a 48-day time limit, which may be extended by 18 days in accordance with paragraph 1c. So here it contains quite different regulations, apart from the fact that it doesn't contain detailed rules on advice. This has therefore completely changed the actual deadline for administration, thus making the outcome of the administrative procedure uncertain and raises legal certainty concerns. The most important thing on which it clearly feels that the constitutionality test would not be met is that when registered by letter, when the rights of the customer are exercised by animal protection organisations, this is fully limited. The bill is 12. In this section of Section 2 of the Act, a targeted amendment raises serious concerns as regards the proper enforcement of the obligation to protect animal species provided for in Article P of the Fundamental Law and the right to a healthy environment. This is clearly because, in the most relevant part, the right of associations to exercise the right to a healthy environment is to be limited by the draft, in conflict with the ban on withdrawal. This is the prohibition of withdrawal that you may remember, as I believe that about a year ago, or now almost a year and a half ago, the Constitutional Court prevented you from selling land belonging to the national park when you were trying to transfer those property rights from national parks to the National Land Fund. This is interesting, isn't it, because this decision is 16/2015. It raises serious concerns as regards the proper enforcement of the obligation to protect animal species and the right to a healthy environment, which the Constitutional Court has made clear. This is clearly because, in the most relevant part, the right of associations to exercise the right to a healthy environment is to be limited by the draft, in conflict with the ban on withdrawal. This is the prohibition of withdrawal that you may remember, as I believe that about a year ago, or now almost a year and a half ago, the Constitutional Court prevented you from selling land belonging to the national park when you were trying to transfer those property rights from national parks to the National Land Fund. This is interesting, isn't it, because this decision is 16/2015. (Gr. 5.) the Constitutional Court's decision stated that the Fundamental Law not only maintained the level of protection of the constitutional fundamental right to a healthy environment, but also contained substantially more provisions in this field than the Constitution. The Fundamental Law thus improved the environmental values and attitudes of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. In particular, this means that withdrawal from animal protection organisations can be considered unconstitutional. This is highlighted by the deputy ombudsman representing future generations. Obviously, if you had asked, you might have given an opinion, but obviously your expert guard did not consider it appropriate to ask such experts. Basically, I am still somewhat angry because the proposal is rather narrow-minded, rather superficially, mostly just scratching the surface to deal with the problem of animal protection, and until the beating of dogs to death would allow Fidesz-KDNP to deal with some fundamental issues without further delay. In the first place, most of the problems of the past period were raised by the way in which the dog with the owner was launched during the hunt. A much more precise and regulated range of legislation in this area would be a very important legislative task to take substantial steps in this respect. Here, either with regard to the body of the dog, the preservation, notification, the obligation of a professional hunter, the creation of obligations for administration in this regard would greatly help the relationship of hunters and other pet owners. Although there have been several such scandals over the past period, they do not wish to reflect on this in any form. The second problem, which is also a very, very deep problem, and it would be good for ecosystem services to deal with this, is that to date you do not consider non-spined animals to be animals. Animal protection regulations and animal welfare laws do not intend to deal in any way with domestic animals and farmed animals which do not have this higher classification. For example, during the time of carrying honey bees which are kept as farm animals, it is still possible to eliminate mosquitoes without further delay, and it is possible to use neonicotionides without further delay, which kills bees in bulk, and this endangers not only ecosystem services, but also, in particular, economic interests in a number of cases. In this case, although we have also been talking about this for a long time, it does not contain any specific measures again. It is very important to talk about how the animal shelter operated by animal welfare organisations can adopt the animal by written contract. In the past, this raised a lot of civil rights issues, since the ownership of an animal entering an animal shelter will be maintained even if it is not known by the animal protection organisation. Although it is in the interest of animal welfare organisations to get their livestock to a careful farm as soon as possible, the legislator still does not address the importance of taking action to address this very difficult sustainable condition. [[13.20]] But I'll tell you one more thing, which has recently caused a lot of debate about animal protection, and this is the issue of the free use of pyrotechnic articles, which, in many cases, even creates the phenomenon of stray animals on its own, since during the given permitted periods, many pets escape as far away from home as possible. The introduction of the animal protection product fee for pyrotechnic articles and the restriction of these in use is also a request requested by animal protectors for a longer period of time, but the government does not want to deal with this, even though it is a daily problem. Obviously, this is a way of saying that it is not until New Year's Eve that we hear about the problems that this poses, yet it is a continuing legislative task that could have been handled calmly in the past. It is also important how the animal protection authority will be able to provide for the transfer of ownership of the animal, because before you want to beat these poor animals to death, it would be possible without further delay to establish the legal basis for seeking new farmers. If this does not happen, alternative solutions can be considered. Thank you very much to my fellow Member Zsolt Egyed for bringing the question of neutering here, and I would not even detail that after his speech. I agree that, as long as there is no government effort to do so, the problem will certainly remain, and this is not only a problem for dogs, but especially for cats; it is now proven that hundreds of species are killed by outdoor domestic cats entering nature. The creation of these would be a typical example of irresponsible pet farming, which could be managed, a solution, but the government also regrets the minimum amount of money that should be spent on this. Animal protection organisations have been saying for a long time, what my better fellow Member has also said, the amendment of the Criminal Code in this respect, but in addition to the amendment, it would be even more important to ensure consistent enforcement in addition to the tightening up, that, in the course of these measures, the investigative authorities make every effort to continuously and consistently apply the provisions currently in place. Here, it would be appropriate to extend the application of a new provision, the legal institution for the prohibition of keeping animals, in cases where irresponsible animal farming may have been repeatedly proven or proved at some level. All these efforts, which I have just given a little insight into, and my opposition colleagues before me have pointed out, are not things that the government would not know about. This is in particular what we sent to both Minister of State Pál Völner and the Ministry of Agriculture almost a year ago, after the Committee on Sustainable Development requested these opinions within the framework of the Parliament. And that is precisely because, in the system of national cooperation, it is not very possible that opposition representatives' proposals should be included in a series of subjects, and therefore we have not done so to submit the bill in order to see if our good government will wake up and perhaps listen a little to the words they have tried to draw attention to, whether they are demonstrators or not, and we are talking not only about tens of thousands of demonstrators, but also about tens of thousands of signatories who have sent a multitude of online petitions just to make a meaningful change in these regulations. So this submitted hound law, although we like to have a conversation here within Parliament, and we are pleased that animal protection has been discussed in this regard, but it would be good if FM could consult professionals, involve animal welfare organisations, consult experts lawyers, or bring something to Parliament that might make a positive difference in the culture of Hungarian livestock farming, in our livestock habits, and make a significant contribution to improving the conditions and quality of life of both livestock and other animals. Although legislative implementation would be to be supported, because of all the other nonsense that is involved - in relation to constitutional infringement issues, as well as the dog attack they are calling for - we cannot support this, but we recommend that it be withdrawn and that a fair proposal be put here, on which we have already provided all legal backgrounds to both the FM and the IM. So I ask that we return to this at a later date by examining these. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2017-05-03-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Independent Members are not in the Chamber, they are not in the debate. We will now continue our work with two minutes of speeches. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-03-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On this presentation, I would like to draw your attention to the science of reading and interpretation, because the adjectives you have said are nowhere in the presentation; they may reflect your spiritual life. Dear Congressman Zsolt Egyed! What you said about the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, I took the liberty of speaking, because one word of it is not true, either as regards the composition of the person or as to the composition of the content, because what was said there was not Sándor Font, and it was not what you said. I took the liberty of making the statement that Jobbik remembers castrating everything, there were times when Gypsies, there were times when criminals, there were dogs, and there were times when Jobbik's soul was castrated; there was times that the predecessor of Novak could give a lecture on this. I also quoted from the shelter in which you tried to lobby your betterman partymate, where there is no animal protection, but animal cruelty. Protocols and various tests can support the story of the shelter that your party partner runs, where 450 dogs are kept in 250 places, and the person had the courage to use 1 percent of personal income tax for this animal torture, and you lobbied for this company. This was said at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture; for clarity only. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, My fellow Member Pócs may be right in saying this castration monologue, but the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Sándor Font, said that the dogs will talk to and should be discussed with them, it is quite true, this is in the minutes. The other thing is that I categorically reject these slanders that Congressman Pócs led up to. My partner took over the dog shelter in Mandaly Mountain in Sárospatak as an employee because the situation was tragic, not guided by competent people. And what I said at the committee meeting, I will also say here: he is not a member of the foundation, he is an employee there, who tries to do his best - and has done so today - in order at that shelter, because the owners of the foundation are such that all dogs are collected from the area without counting, regardless of the number of dogs. He's trying to change this situation. So we have to keep in mind that we're sitting on the horse in the front or in the back. By the way, I say to my fellow Member Pócs that it is very tasteless that you are trying to make such a joke about these issues, even though we are talking about very serious things here. I believe that these shelters, outside of 1% of the tax, deserve to be supported by the state, because in a country where theft is institutionalized, I believe that these noble works could be cut off by HUF 1-2 billion between two stadiums and a Lőrinc Mészáros project. I think it would be more sympathetic to people than what you're doing right now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2017-05-03-78	Dear Parliament, As our fellow Members have not applied for two-minute speeches, we are now continuing our work with speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-79	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It is very interesting that the cycle is almost over, and for the first time in this House we are talking about animal protection and animal welfare. I think that says a lot of things. It also tells us a lot that, when we get to order the forums where we have to stand up for animal rights or animal cruelty, despite the fact that, although all party representatives are called, we can only meet government representatives there in the first place; I am sorry, this euphemism is not allowed to meet government representatives there, but I was just trying to be fair. I apologize to you, I cannot deal with this without anger, for a number of reasons. Some gentlemen in my constituency in the county of Békés think it is a good idea to kill dogs and cats by putting drawing nails in a sandbox wrapped in animal food or by putting poisons in sandboxes; obviously, these sandboxes are also used by children. [[13.30]] I can't talk without a lot of anger when it's not just the sport of hunting, but it's also a good sport that people who call themselves hunters or even thinkers shoot their dogs out of their masters. Nor can I go much further than the fact that the Hungarian authorities prefer to hide these events rather than reveal them. Respect for exception, respect for a few prosecutors, policemen who do the opposite every day in a strong backwind. Then I can't speak without a temper when I, as a member of a catguard patrol every day, find a ten-year-old dog in Bernáthegy, who can't see, can't hear, and his owner - although I can't say that only to euphemism - his master, of course - thought that this animal should be dropped off in Budakalas or even in the III. It's in some kind of public area of the district, because that's what this living thing deserves. I think that anger is also greatly enhanced by the fact that we have a lot of expectations that this inhuman situation should change. I do not think that there is anyone in this country, there is a decent, honest Hungarian person with a normal feeling who agrees with any animal torture. I don't think so. I don't think there are people in this room who support animal murders or animal cruelty. I do not think that this topic shares Hungarian society, because it is only those who kill animals and torture animals that are sick and twisted. The vast majority of society is not like this. If, on the other hand, this is the case, how the hell is it that no law can be passed in this area, without, by the way, not only political but social consensus in the objectives? ! The reason for my disappointment is not that we are here for the first time in this cycle, but that instead of talking about the real things, we are scratching the surface again. There may be a dispute between us that we need to change the Btk not for five, but for four or six or ten years. relevant sections. There can also be a debate between us about which passages need to be changed. For the record, it's not, but it could be a debate. We can have disputes about solutions, whether we need lawn-master facilities or not. But on the fundamental issue, there is no debate between the people sitting here or the Hungarian citizens who are not sitting here, that is, that it is a sin to torture and kill animals, and that society must strike down these people, these sick, degenerate people who do this. There's no argument here. And compared to that, they come here with every last, third order of manpower! Amazing! I can't use another word for that, it's amazing. I tried to make this proposal as good as possible before us, so as I went through the details, I tried to make sense of everything, and something obviously worked out, something obviously didn't work out because of the mistake. The first thing that is very important is that the concept of animal cruelty is defined in the very right direction by this law. That's the right thing to do. But it doesn't happen what's desperately needed: the concept of animal cruelty is also written in the Btk. Without the law itself opening up Btk. and no provisions of the Btk., it basically only defines the case of animal cruelty in infringement cases as described here. I do not dispute the author's intention that he believes that animal cruelty is a general feature, but then, for example, in the Btk., we should also change the delict of animal cruelty. It should be described what the Btk., the penal code on which we punish animal cruelty, you say, what you're talking about when you use the concept of animal cruelty. Well, that's not it. If our goal is to change that, then we need to put this in the Btk. This proposal does not allow this to happen. We consider or consider myself to be very appropriate what has been pointed out by several people that the state is deemed to be the owner of the unclaimed animals. It would be even more appropriate if something were to happen about the state's legal arrangement, such as the review of the issue of the animal as a thing, as it was done in Austria, Germany; this is what awaits Hungary. The Hungarian Socialist Party has proposed this to the Ministry of Justice - it has fallen on deaf ears. What my fellow Member Sallai said by beating these dogs to death is indeed a strange passu of this provision. The point is that it is not considered animal cruelty from now on, if you are in lawns or in any such place, if you have not been able to find a farmer for an unfortunate dog or cat, then you must put them to sleep. Obviously, let's face it, this is what really awaits a lot of dogs and cats and other animals in these places. The people who work here are not doing this for good, not for good. They do it by force so that they can't meet in Parliament with the accusation that they're the animal torturers who take in dogs of 400-500, cats, not those who get them there. But that's the case. However, this law does not contain any guarantee that this passage does not actually become the cause of animal murder. There are no procedural rules and no guarantee rules as to how long it takes or during which procedure these organisms should be found as owners. This is no good at all. This must be changed in the law. I find it very appropriate to make a significant part of the changes to animal testing. I, too, think that the 21st century. In the first century, at today's level of technology, it is not possible to talk about the need for animal testing, apart from some very specific situations. However, it is the fact that this law, which is before us, is not the image of the common mood that seeks to say no to animal cruelty and animal murder, but, in fact, the end of an EU infringement procedure that is nothing but about how to regulate animal testing or the transposition of a directive on animal protection, with such a sound concept. We are not talking here about the fact that the regulator actually intends to solve all the issues that have been raised in this case, but is focusing only on a few narrow passages, something well, something wrong. It's also an interesting question of the dog order. It was possible to collect ebado so far, it was not forbidden for municipalities, so there was actually a municipality that took it, some that didn't take it. But what's tangled up in this thing? - I'd like to ask you a question. The new law says that the animal protection task is mandatory. The structure of the municipal law is logical: it says that resources must be added to all tasks. In this case, therefore, one of the sources of the increased animal law enforcement tasks of the municipalities, which they do well to increase, can be the Ebaba by virtue of the law. That's not so good. The other part of this is the scope of non-indulgence. Your madness is the issue of the Hungarian races, and then - I don't know why you have to put them here, but similarly - practically exempting the hounds from the dog is also an important madness. However, there is only one positive aspect of this ebby, let's say, exception circle that the government has formulated. Adopted organisms, adopted dogs, may be exempted from dog taxation by those who receive or care for an adopted dog. I think that's a good way to go. If there is such regulation, it is important that this is included. But I don't really see any point in the other two. [[13.40]] As a teacher, it is very important for me to be responsible for keeping animals, and I think that education in animal welfare and in responsible animal farming should be a central element in educating a healthy animal consciousness. It is very important that this proposal is about this, but it is about how exactly this is integrated into the education system, in fact, little. I think, without specifics, these are not very different, just words written down [[György Szilágyi to János Pócs on his way out of the room: Mr. Chief Speaker, where are you going?]] Of which, in fact, none [[György Szilágyi: But where are you going? Gábor Bányai: Calm down!]] positive things are not expected. Similarly, the proposal provides for the obligation to establish a municipal system of animal welfare patrols. I think that those who are involved in animal protection know precisely that the very important part of the animal welfare signalling system is to have animal welfare patrols in the settlements. There are places where enthusiastic civilians can do it, some where they can't do it, some where there's more. It is very important for the government to realise that these are necessary to create, but in this legislation before us, apart from the fact that it has to be like this, virtually nothing can be found about it. That's not enough. What is not covered by this legislation? It's not really about anything that's been upsetting the animal rights issue for the past few years. It does not talk about the unsolved regulations of animal welfare organisations. It's not about your unsolved support. It does not mention the requirement to change the legal status of the animal. It does not mention changes in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which would allow not only animal torturers but also civil society organisations protecting animals to appear as parties to criminal proceedings. It's not all about that. In fact, we can see that while the law quite rightly allows animal protection organisations to appear as parties in the administrative procedure, on the other hand, it takes this opportunity away from civil society organisations in criminal proceedings. There is a need for consistency here, and I think it can be expected that both in criminal and administrative proceedings there will be an opportunity to do so. While you are embarrassingly making sure that the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act are not opened, here is a regulation that really concerns the substance, I think it is difficult to introduce. Of course, we believed you for a very long time. When we have been constantly told by the Ministry of Justice that you will come before us with a complex legislation that addresses the issues that we or civil society have spoken about, then many of us, myself, have withdrawn or have not tabled our draft legislation in this area. I have repeatedly suggested that animal torturers and animal killers actually go to prison, and so I considered it necessary, among other things, to include the Btk. - If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. The fourth reason I didn't submit this is because I believed you, and I thought you would stand before us and put before us a bill on which to argue, and which is really about punishing animal killers. It's not like what's in front of us. Please, Secretary of State, at least at the end of the debate, tell us when such a law will come before us. If someone votes in favour, will it check the legislation for this cycle, or might it even be possible for animal killers to go to prison in this cycle? Thank you for listening.
u2017-05-03-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me to respond to some of the things I said at the beginning of my speech. And that Congressman János Pócs, who is, by the way, the lead speaker of this important law, will read the pre-written speech, in a two-minute period he will stick a thing or two, and then pack his stuff and go home. He doesn't care what this is about, he doesn't care what the opposition says at all, what kind of proposals he has. He had to go, I guess, according to the Labour Code, he's probably out of work for the day, and he's gone home on vacation, even if we tell him. I'm telling you in the beginning that he's not in the room, because I called him when he went out, where he was going, and that he should wait, so he wouldn't be able to tell me when he wasn't here. But I'm afraid I have to deal with your person. My fellow Member Zsolt Egyed said how serious Fidesz is about animal protection and this question, that at the committee meeting, Sándor Font said that we should deal with this law, that we should shape this law when the dogs are already talking and they can tell us what they want. Meg's talking about it, and she's joking that Jobbik wants to castrate almost everyone, and now it's up to the dogs. And then János Pócs stands up and defends Sándor Font, says he doesn't, that's what he said. That's a problem, by the way, because what did Jobbik say and what does he joke about here? The Jobbik said that criminals who rape women, molest or rape small children are free to be judged by the court for chemical castration. That's what I'm talking about. That's what János Pócs is joking about right now. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: He didn't touch it!]] The fact that you don't know this question wouldn't be a problem, I don't know how to sell melons. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] I don't want to argue with him about how to sell melons, because János Pócs is a specialist in that. The problem isn't that he doesn't know how to do it, but that he's the lead speaker for Fidesz on this issue. And he's gonna pack up and leave. That's Fidesz' attitude. It has been suggested here several times that why this law was submitted now, not in 2012. Congressman Bárándy raised it. I think it is because there has been a fight for freedom with the EU on this issue as well. [[Defiance.]] It is only now that the EU has forced you to bring this provision before this House, and that is what it is. [[Referring to Robert Zsigo on his way from his place to the lodge:]] Looks like I may have been telling the truth, because Mr. Secretary of State has already blown out of the room, so he's gone, so now he's getting... And János Pócs came back! Finally! Very good. How do you do? At least you'll be able to answer those questions. Then let's talk about the law. My fellow Members have said almost everything about the problems that we should solve. I would not like to repeat these speeches and repeat these questions. Therefore, I would like to focus on one important point in my speech on the law. Animal protection, whether for farmed animals, wild animals or co-animals, is an important area, since animals can feel, suffer and rejoice. In recognition of this, the Republic of Hungary created in 1998 the Act on the Protection of Animals, the preamble to which states that the explicit purpose of the Act is to ensure a legal level of reasonable protection and welfare of animals. I stress that in the preamble to the law, the term "promoting protection" is included. In the grammatical sense, this means that, in the case at hand, those who wish to act rationally must choose the most logical and effective solution possible compared to the situation in question. I, too, and I think all my reasonable fellow Members can agree with that. The first amendment of the proposed legislation aims to amend the concept of animal cruelty. The amendment is partly based on... [[János Pócs, sitting in his seat, is speaking to other Members who are also in their seats.]] I repeat to Mr Pócs that I do not want to argue with you about the melon sale, but feel free to press a button, and you can bring that up in two minutes, just don't yell at me. Push the button. We're in an argument. I'd be happy to hear from you, I'd be happy to hear from you about animal welfare, which is part of your lead speech. I'm curious about your opinion. Perhaps you will answer that you have raised the important question of neutering my fellow Member Zsolt Egyed and my fellow Member of the LMP. Why don't you deal with that? What do you think of that? What's your professional position? I'm really curious, but he's the lead speaker of the Fidesz, and he can only comment on it. I'm really looking forward to you pressing a button and telling me. So I started talking about the first amendment to the proposed bill, which aims to change the concept of animal cruelty. Part of the amendment is that all animal abuse in the future should be considered animal cruelty. According to the detailed justification for the amendment, this amendment is necessary in order to make it clear to everyone that the abuse of animals is prohibited under all circumstances and that the authorities do not have to investigate whether the abuse has been considered necessary. That's a weird explanation, in my opinion, especially if we compare it to the Btk. the legal facts of animal cruelty in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Animal torture is committed by those who unduly abuse vertebrate animals in such a way that they cause permanent damage to or their destruction. The fact that there is no justification is also a factor in the legal situation, which is not included in the amending proposal, since it is specifically intended to constitute animal cruelty under the Animal Protection Act in all circumstances. Therefore, because of these parts, the problem is that the Btk. has not been opened, because it will no longer be coherent with the Btk., this animal protection law, which is now being submitted. We should've opened the Btk., given the opportunity to change that. [[13.50]] The definition set out in the current Animal Protection Act also includes, therefore, that the abuse currently in force is only animal cruelty, which is unnecessary and therefore unjustified. The current text is therefore in line with Btk., as opposed to the amendment proposal, which defines a completely different definition. The text of a law, in particular its definitions, must be clear, clear and understandable. The legislative law also obliges legislators to do so. In view of this, it is worth examining the concept of abuse as to whether it is sufficiently precise and clear when it is applied in the definition. Assault can mean physical, physical, and verbal abuse, as well as psychological abuse. In the case of animals, it is worth considering whether, for example, a person yelling at an animal is an abuse, because if so, the amendment is that it is an animal torture that is prohibited by the law. Whether it is a leash used in dogs, whether it is a louder control word for dogs, or an emergency or in any other situation, an attack on the animal may be considered abuse or animal cruelty, if accepted. Or I'll tell you something else: the use of a wand or a wand used in riding, which is acceptable and not intended to harm the animal, but to control it primarily, or the use of the whip in road transport for horses caught in front of riding cars in the countryside, if in some way you want to control the animal and oppose it, is that considered to be animal cruelty? These issues should also be taken into account, because in my opinion, if this law is passed, they will also be considered animal cruelty and considered prohibited. Let us see that the two words proposed by the amendment to delete from the definition would result in unrespectable, incomprehensible and unenforceable legislation, which in no way serves the purpose of the law, as well as the reasonable protection and welfare of animals. In my view, the definition currently in force is precise and mature, and there is no need to change it, especially in this way, as the amending proposal before us envisages. In this connection, my fellow Member and I have tabled an amendment, and I would ask you to consider adopting it. I say that it would be right to withdraw this proposal, to hold a wide-ranging consultation with the organisations concerned, to bring it back to the House and to open up Btk. with it, and then I think that everyone could be constructively involved, and that we could indeed create a law to protect animals that punishes those who criminally... - and once again, we must punish people who are innocent, defenseless, and here comes when I said that against women or children, any abuse or abuse is being used. In the same way, an animal is defenceless and vulnerable to humans, so those who abuse the animal's trust and hurt them, take advantage of them, must be punished in the same way, in which we are clearly in the same position as you. The problem is that we do not achieve this goal with this law. This is an important goal, because I think of terrible things, since my fellow Member has said a terrible thing here. I remember terrible things. For example, I think of an otherwise heavily protected garden, somewhere in Felcsú, where, not a puppy named Narciss, a puppy was beaten almost to the death, and since then no one has been guilty, we still don't know who assaulted this innocent, vulnerable puppy in the Prime Minister's protected garden. I wonder who beat this dog half to death. People like that should be punished. These people are mean, these people take advantage of animal vulnerability and abuse them. We really need to make laws. The only thing that matters is that we're making laws so that we can enforce them afterwards, not us, but the people who do it. Every law is worth as much as they respect it. I understand that the various authorities in Hungary must enforce the laws. But if we make laws like those that lie before us, and these laws, this law, are enforced by the authorities, then this law could be abused by malicious people. I could report the riders, for example, like I said, on a continuous basis, for example, there are a lot of examples of who might be able to take advantage of this, and according to this law, the authority should act. It's not a good law! Once again, I would ask you to consider the amendment. I would also ask you, and it would be best not to consider our amending proposal, but to consider withdrawing this law, and after a broad consultation, when organisations that work in this world and do a lot to protect animals can say their opinion, bring it back here, change it with Btk., and really create a animal protection law, create laws to protect animals that truly serve the purpose that you have set here. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, the LMP Group.
u2017-05-03-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's just a short speech. In fact, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he could do something without paper, so if he didn't read something, he would react to a few things. What if we were to do it in this Parliament as if there were a dialogue between these laws and we were to discuss them, maybe if you were to respond to suggestions, tell us why you think something differently, I think it would show that Fidesz is capable of dialogue, not afraid to get out of the paper, and maybe you can respond to these questions yourself. Because the problem is, if you don't do this, there's one thing that's confirmed, the continuous and total incompetence and incompetence of the FM, which has already been proven in pesticide policy, food safety, Szilárd Kiss, green case, so they're proving what they're unfit for. If, at least as a human being, you express your opinion on animal protection legislation and share your thoughts with us, then I think it may help to reduce the impression of total incompetence. I'm asking you not to respond in a closed manner, but to argue with us. Meanwhile, my fellow Member Zsolt Egyed has already receded on the source of this neutering thing. I just wanted to point out that if someone in some body says something so stupid, it's likely to be János Pócs, so please don't doubt what our fellow Member has to say, that there's certainly a chance. However, I would like to call on Jobbik to comment on it, because I have heard that they have also collected signatures once for the fact that János Pócs should also be neutered. I don't know if that's true, but I read this on the Internet. I think that is why our fellow Member is so sensitive about this issue.
u2017-05-03-84	Congressman, please.
u2017-05-03-85	Basically, I wanted to deny our fellow Member, László Kiss, unfortunately. My colleague László Kiss comes from the preconception that there is a consensus here between the opposition and the government on the animal protection issues he was pushing. It takes the view that both sides agree that the consequences of this punishment should be tightened up. Unfortunately, it doesn't. Just think that if this was brought before the House five years later, as it should have been, if the most important questions were still not asked, there would be no agreement. Fidesz-KDNP doesn't want to touch that question. The Fidesz-KDNP wants to touch it now, which is the obligation of the international treaty. There is no meaningful progress in this area. There is no meaningful thinking in this area. And not only does he not think, not only does he not want to think, but he doesn't even do it to listen and consider the opinions of experts who express their views on these topics, representing organisations in their field of expertise and experience. He won't do that either. Discussing the importance of this topic here in opposition lines is beneficial. Unfortunately, the Fidesz-KDNP does not want to join this, although I trust very much in another two minutes of my fellow Member, János Pócs, but I do not see very much that Mr State Secretary intends to do so. [[14.00]] It would be useful if you didn't respond in a closed tone, which we can't answer. I would like to ask you, with all due respect, to continue these debates, because until then, I cannot believe my fellow Member, Mr Kiss, that you have the least interest in changing the animal protection rules in a positive direction. Until then, the only thing left in front of me is what was submitted, and this proves completely their incompetence and incompetence, that they really cannot assess what kind of problem is at the moment in the field of animal protection. That's why I need your reaction. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-86	Thank you, Congressman. I would also like to ask you to make a joke, but I reject this kind of personalism you have just indicated to Mr János Pócs about the Jobbik. I suppose you remember what I was thinking, a legitimate method that you were talking about with the animals. For the sake of all of us, whatever faction this is, I refuse. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2017-05-03-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just so that Congressman Szilágyi doesn't feel that I'm not listening to what he's saying. Congressman Sallai, before you go, if you have already made a motion for my castration, I would like to wish you good health, a long, happy life, a large family outside of Parliament's work, after you have admitted yourself that you are unfit to work in Parliament for the future. Congressman Szilágyi! I've been listening to what you're saying, and you listen to me, and I'm trying to tell you by heart. I was just trying to tell you that everything you think about is neuterization. I don't know how to match melon production and neuterization. It is likely that when they started this idea, there were times when Gypsies, there were criminals, there were times when dogs, and now Novak Előd could give the example, the party's soul was also neutered. Now they want the melon producers, but they want your soul on it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Mr President, we should get him out because he's talking nonsense.]] Congressman! As a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I would just like to say that if you have an offensive intention, then feel free to do so, because all we hear from Jobbik is hatred on the street, on the road, on posters and in Parliament. I'd like to ask you one thing: if you're trying to offend me by my family's living on melon production, change the subject. If anyone brings that up in any environment, I'm honored. That's what my grandparents did. That's what my parents do. They gave it to me, I gave it to my son. Melon production is not an insult to me, it's an honor. I wish you, both in your lives and in your families, to have traditions that you not only pick up and steal overnight, but also take over from your parents and grandparents and have something to give to your children. That's what I wish you. With this, I assure you, I will never be offended. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-89	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Congressman Pócs, I respect your ancestors and you for working on melons, but I do not think this debate should be about that. You're here trying to make fun of neuterization, you're trying to make up party political slogans. I would like to say once again that what you voted against in committee with cynical accompanying texts, I think, is more important than making a joke out of it. We're talking about a billion forints. You know, it's exactly half the amount that Flórian Farkas enchanted, or one-fifty parts of a stadium, or the equivalent of what you distribute without thinking. Here, the work of thousands of people and animalists could be spared, on the one hand, if this amount was committed, whether in the budget, and, on the other hand, I think that it would make the country a little safer, but a little safer. After all, I just read in the last few days an article about stray dogs in one of the villages attacking people. Obviously, if there were to be an obstacle to unwanted growth, such things would not happen. I think that, in addition to joking, it might be possible to set a goal of achieving the level of Austria. My fellow Member Pócs, if he drives through Austria, I risk not seeing one stray dog or cat. On the one hand, because animal rearing is very strong, and on the other hand, livestock farming is subject to conditions imposed by the state and offers opportunities that make it unthinkable for the masses of stray animals to roam the streets. So I think we should have this goal before us. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, in a normal time frame.
u2017-05-03-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say or would like to say that it is interesting to listen to the debate, but unfortunately, this cannot be done because it is quite one-sided. It is quite one-sided, because my fellow Member Pócs, I think it is a compliment to him, even if he goes out of the room again now that he sometimes pushes a button, at least in the form of two-minute speeches, even if it does not have much to do with the subject. Indeed, it has turned into something personal, at least the discourse that my fellow Member Jobbik and Pócs are having with each other. I think it would be worth significantly more, and this subject deserves a more serious attitude than making jokes and having fun with the word "spaying" and assigning it to different groups either to persons or animals, or to them. For example, I deeply resent what my fellow Member Sallai has done that the representative of the government does not speak a single word to this debate. He read the Treasury text, the line, and he explained what we could have read, because it's in the law and in his reasoning. Since then, he has refused to respond to the suggestions, arguments, questions that I have asked my fellow Members and myself. I know, Mr Secretary, this is a way of strangling the debate, and you have been applying it for many years. For example, in the previous term, it may have been perfected by one of your fellow State Secretary Erika Szabó, who, in the seven-hour debate of the Act on Election Procedure, refused to speak once. They were sort of different monologues. You know, Mr. Secretary, that's not fair. If you talk so much about the authority of Parliament, the Parliament and its preservation, then, I believe, it is more a threat to the authority of the Parliament and it is a violation of being viewed as a display board than being able to stand up once in a while and then present some banners here. Rather, it violates the authority of the Parliament that the government takes such an attitude in a parliamentary debate as to say, say, I don't give a damn about it anyway. I will send opposition representatives to a warmer climate in the closet, when they no longer have an answer when there is no debate. I make use of this right, this opportunity, and I will not, by chance, generate the debate by commenting and answering the questions. Mr. Secretary. There have been specific questions for you. Please answer them. I would not like to repeat my own, nor my fellow Members. Answer the question. We do not ask, we demand, and not in the closing, but in the course of the debate. The fact that you're the one with the last word on your mind is fine. But that does not mean that you should not participate in the debate, that you would not be obliged to participate in the debate and to represent the position of the wallet, since you are the authors of this outrageous proposal. As far as the remaining substantive issues are concerned, unfortunately, I must say that I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Sallai, when he contradicted my fellow group member, that everyone here is thinking the same thing. [[14.10]] No, it's not like that. The fact that you can make some good quotes and encourage them here in Parliament is not yet a commitment to the subject, because it is not you who invented it, but mostly those who have actually had a commitment or a commitment to animal protection. You know, my fellow Earth Member, who was the lead speaker of the KDNP, and having said his contribution, left the Chamber, of course, in a manner worthy of a good pro-government Member, because he does not even give the impression that he would be interested in the fact that he was, once again, a lead speaker on this subject, what was his position on other fellow Members, he said...
u2017-05-03-92	Congressman! Mr. Earth Congressman is in the room. I'd like to tell you.
u2017-05-03-93	Where?
u2017-05-03-94	He's a notary of the Parliament, and he's doing his job. Go on.
u2017-05-03-95	Oh, Mr. President, this is a pleasant surprise, and I'll follow the congressman. I hope you'll answer what I'm going to raise as a subject. Once again, I welcome this positive thing, and I will follow my fellow Member once again. So, the Member said that the reason why this law is here now is that he is absolutely right, because after an infringement procedure, the Hungarian State was obliged to finally transpose into its own legal system the 2010 directives that should have been adopted by 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, If there's anything to prove that they're not committed to the subject, then that's it. You did not simply transpose the EU Directive on time, but you did not want to do this, you did not want it to become part of the Hungarian legal system that you are talking about, which has been presented to us. You didn't want this, and you had to be obliged by the competent body of the European Union, and therefore you have now, under duress, done that this is useful for you, because this will enable you to overcome the real change and to find an excuse for not bringing anyone else here. This is another question, but the lack of commitment, I think, proves nothing more than the fact that Earth Congressman has said. If I'm wrong about that, then if you'll please come down here, the notary duties, I think they'll allow you to return to your seat and answer and deny what I've just suggested here. The other thing I'd like to talk about, and it's about putting the animals to sleep, killing them and their options. Yes, it is not good to consider animals in a way that almost fits into animal cruelty. My fellow Member, László Kiss, said and I agree with him that it is not the people who keep it that way in shelters in the first place, but those who drop these animals off, but it is not good to have these conditions in shelters, it is not right. [[István Ikotity is replaced by István Szávay in the notary seat.]] And then we'll get back to what your values are. Of course, if the state does not have enough money, it will either be able to sustain the elderly by their descendants, or they will starve or die of illness, or not - the new Fundamental Law has made this possible, and this is a similar attitude for animals. It is not the solution, is it not, Minister of State, that in total a few ten million forints a year - I don't know, 40-50 or 60 million forints next year, something like this - would be put to animal protection in total, but the solution is to put the animals to sleep. Again, the symptomatic treatment: it is not, let us say, as my fellow Member said, that a billion forints would be devoted to neutering, it is not that they are not going to go to the point of perhaps spending public money on shelter extensions until otherwise this problem is resolved, for example, through neutering, but allow animals to be killed. All right, great attitude, that's really what you've been up to in animal protection. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not a new attitude on your part. The last amendment to the Animal Protection Act, if I remember correctly, was in the 2006-2010 cycle, then I was the lead speaker on the pro-government side of this amendment. Our colleague Sándor Font, with whom it has been suggested that the talking dogs will be able to discover us, probably by the way, by the way, I'm just saying that there is something misunderstood about the excellent novel by Professor Vilmos Csányi, who, by the way, really knows about this subject, which is called Marci, the talking dog. Maybe he read this novel wrong because something was wrong with him, anyway. So, it appeared that Sándor Font, who is now famous for this subject, seemed to have expressed a genuine lack of understanding when we spoke about the extension of animal welfare considerations in connection with the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. He said that, but, fellow Members, this will increase the cost of livestock farming, which will increase the price of meat. Yeah, well, that's exactly what we're talking about: if you're committed to animal welfare, you realize that there's another side of the coin, it really increases animal welfare, animal welfare, you really have to take resources away from somewhere else to regroup it for animal protection. That's true, but the question is, who's worth it and who's not. It seems that Fidesz is at least extremely consistent that it is not worth it. It was not worth it then either, it was impossible to convince Mr Font that the enforcement of animal welfare considerations was the right effort in the Animal Protection Act between 2006 and 2010, and Fidesz did not vote for the amendment of the Animal Protection Act. Even now, it seems that we are dealing with this attitude when the government is trying to apply the simplest symptomatic treatment to a problem, but it has nothing to do with animal protection or animal welfare, nothing to do with it. I would suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that you should be lobbying for animal protection instead of a few ten million forints, as is customary in cultural countries, to allocate substantial budgetary resources and really achieve animal protection objectives. Because, by the way, the fact that you're chasing civil society these days, branding them as Soros rentals, you know who's gonna have an impact on animal protection NGOs. You're holding your head, Mr. Secretary. I'm not the one saying this. I'm the representatives of animal protection NGOs, who's gonna influence them. You're not arguing with me if you don't agree with this, you're arguing with them. So, if you do this for political reasons, at least do what you can to compensate for a little bit more money in this area, you're going to spend more money on this subject. So, once again, neither in terms of your approach nor in terms of your goals nor in terms of your objectives, I cannot support this bill with a good heart, but you still have a year to bring to Parliament proposals that you have not drawn up by you, but by real experts. I hope you will have enough self-criticism to at least follow the proposals they make and perhaps not meet your intentions or your agreement. So I would ask once again, Mr Secretary, that this law be withdrawn and that you put a complex proposal here on the table that makes sense. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group. [[14.20]]
u2017-05-03-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise you, I'm not gonna talk about growing seedy vegetables. Before my work, I did a lot of dog work, I was first aide to a dog school, then a trainer, and I was able to see how the police dogs were sorted out by Dunakeszin. I would like to ask the Secretary of State first of all whether the introduction of this law will affect the police stock and the training of police dogs. After all, everyone knows how to select protective dogs in the first place, since they should not react too much to light and sound. That means they're firing a gun over their heads. If the dog doesn't close his eyes, it's convenient. During training, a strangler collar is used, which causes the dog to suffocate, and that's why it lets go. The other one. The use of an electric collar causes constant impulse and pain to the dog, thus being taught. Also, there's another brutal device that's been stopped in Germany, the chained and nailed collar. This gives the dog a refinement during the obedience exam, but it still causes the same pain. So is this an abuse in itself, because if so, unfortunately, the police staff must be informed to proceed with the clicker method and, when selecting dogs, try to pet the question of whether it is appropriate for a police dog. I am going to ask you now, and I think Commissioner Secretary of State knows the answer to that question: how a 60-pound rottweiler dog will be tried to be called back when it is deployed, as I will say once again during the training, using a choke collar and barbed collar or an electric collar, which will be considered abuse in connection with the introduction of the law. So the law goes back to normal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-03-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now speaking to Congressman László Kiss in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-99	Thank you for the floor. I may be the most naive member of Parliament, because I really think that in acts which are abnormally antihuman, there is no excuse in this House for animal cruelty or animal murder. I really think that there is no member of this House who can even accept that there are such events. Perhaps there is a difference between us in how we feel about these events. I would have liked to have had a proposal before us that responds substantially to most of the things and responds well - unfortunately this is not so. Nevertheless, I have faith that this situation will change, because, frankly, I have never seen a man who thought, yes, that cats or dogs should be tortured a little more; or that, yes, the current system is in place; yes, it is good to put nails in the sandbox in the dog food. So I've never seen a man like that before. I've never met a man like that. I think it's just a small part of society. However, despite all my good faith, I must say that it is indeed a serious problem that, to date, no substantive steps are taken in matters where society as a whole is saying something, society as a whole is saying something, that animal cruelty or animal murder must be stopped. And the debate that's going on here is not worthy of this case. I really do not think that the governing parties have no position on this issue. I really do not think that Members sitting in the benches opposite us do not have an opinion on this issue. I really do not think that there are no parties, whether or not they are well-meaning, even professional debates on this issue. The fact that we can't see this is a problem. It is wrong, because legislation is such that it can be good for everyone to express their views - but it is not visible here. If we are serious about Fidesz or KDNP having real social support, and according to the polls, I think that the parties should be interested, for example, in what their voters want and what they think about this issue. Some Mahatma Gandhi quotes won't convince anyone that the regulation is in place. I'm sorry, it's naive to think that's true, and I don't think you believe that, either. It is very difficult to argue on this issue because, for example, we did not have an answer to what would have been very good at the beginning of the debate about whether this other legislation would have followed. We did not get an answer to some of the suggestions, because, for example, if the government's answer is that rules that are ambiguous, which apparently do not serve the purpose of this proposal, are actually weeded out, transformed, examined, then obviously again the attitude of man to this set of laws is different from that of ordinary silence. My right-wing colleagues before me have made a very interesting attempt to prove that the Btk. without opening the door, how impossible it is to deal with the case. I am sure that I have an argument with them that the regulation of this extension of animal torture is a good direction or a bad direction, but I am trying to understand what my fellow Member Szilágyi and many people have said that without opening the Btk., this must be the wrong direction. 'Cause the problem is that it's the Btk. is working with a certain definition system, and these new definitions cannot be incorporated into this definition system quite simply. That's the problem. It is not a problem that the government wants to expand the definition of animal cruelty - I am very pleased about that - but the problem is that incoherence is created by the Btk. and the Animal Protection Act, so that, by the way, these definitions are not soothingly arranged in the Btk. 'Cause the problem is, it's the Btk. This regulation is not suitable either, on the one hand because it works with too low sentences, but it is only part of the matter. The other is that procedural acts themselves are not sufficiently developed. Obviously, no one seriously believes that animal cruelty, which does not involve the death of the living creature, can be given the same punishment as for animal murder. At the moment, however, there is no satisfactory definition of animal cruelty and animal murder in the Btk. At the moment, what happens to an animal is not solved. When I got that question from a press product in the summer, and, frankly, I had a little bit of a stopping feeling about how someone, I think, was having sex with a donkey and commenting on this news, I'll tell you straight away, it came out of me right away that it was disgusting. And later, the man tried to pinpoint with his lawyer's head exactly what kind of crime that was. And I don't want to bring that professional metaphor here, but this question clearly shows that the Btk is completely undeveloped. current system. And then, when you make some kind of interpretation, obviously out of good intentions, but at the same time, the Btk. leg is missing, it's actually an inexplicable definition, like an overextensive definition. I mean, it's absurd, but pork slaughter can be animal cruelty in this case, and not the pig slaughter that comes with the unwarranted suffering of the pig. So obviously there's a difference between the two. That's why we can't go around opening the Btk., we can't! So if you really want to think seriously about solving this case, then the Btk. must be opened. It can be done in a thousand directions. The extended definition that you operate on here is a sympathetic direction for me, and others don't like it - it can be debated. How many delicts we're gonna put in the Btk.-- you can argue about it. How we punish them - we can argue about it. But without opening this thing, this thing just isn't gonna solve anything. It's not a solution to anything if we don't open the law on criminal proceedings. But these could be classified, including education legislation, educational regulation tools, curricula. He rightly recognizes this proposal that raising responsible livestock is a key thing in preventing animal cruelty, because we not only torture the animal deliberately, driven by some twisted spirit, to do something to harm him, but also, for example, if we do not make sure that we can hold him properly, and yet keep him; if we feed him with food, otherwise out of kindness, love that he suffers or dies from - all of these are animal cruelty. [[14.30]] Obviously education, education, it helps. After seventy-eight hours of now overloaded children, let's put in a seventy-nine in charge of livestock farming, or how do we solve this? There are obviously no adequate, quick answers to that, but there must be an answer to that - a sentence does not say. The person who works in animal welfare simply doesn't laugh when it comes to neutered, doesn't laugh, I didn't understand these reactions, and I didn't understand the active policy ping-pong either. While my fellow Member Sallai is mistaken when he talks about the racial disappearance of cat neutering, this is true in some continents, Australia and New Zealand, less in Europe, but I also know that one of the most important reasons for cat growth is that the issue of neutering is not solved. When we talk about dogs putting people in jeopardy in packs, and one of my fellow Members says that this happens in several rural settlements, the III. I know such events in my constituency in the district of Budapest III. I'm talking about your district. And at a time when the general's response to today's Hungarian legislation is to shoot the dogs, my fellow Member Barándy feels very well that this is not okay, because these animals should not be born at some point. Punctuation: I apologize for the profan analogy. At some point, the farmer who thought he would take these animals and then drive them out into the street wasn't meant to be born. So these things need to be seriously changed. Please, Mr Secretary of State, in your reply, please go out there and at least reassure me, who I am still trying to believe you, to assure you that there will be legislation in this term, there will be another law that will be before us that will try to deal with this issue more generally, that we do not check the matter by saying that the Union must write something after six or seven or eight years, then we will write something, and then we will say that this paper will be good for them. There is much more to be done than that, and the animals that we are talking about now deserve much more, and the few tens of thousands who are trying to make their own money every day in connection with their stepdaughter's fate so that these animals can be caught at a better stage of their lives, and not in shelter, several centuries are waiting with them for the rightful owner or otherwise forced to suffer. Please take this topic seriously, and let us not focus on who produced what and who doesn't produce what and who doesn't come in and who doesn't come in, but, given the seriousness of the subject, let us talk about the proposal before us in substance. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The next round of speeches will be given to Congressman György Szilágyi in a two-minute time frame from the Jobbik Group.
u2017-05-03-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member has indeed raised issues that should be discussed and debated. Yes, that's what we think; we believe that the Animal Protection Act and the Btk. should provide reasonable protection for animals, and we are not only talking about dogs and cats, but also about the responsible keeping of animals that you have said, and by responsible livestock farming, we should understand all animals around the house, for example. And here comes another very big problem, that these laws should not go overboard, and in principle prevent livestock farming, because unfortunately today in Hungary we have to face the fact that there are fewer and fewer domestic animals in the countryside. The farming in the country, which was typical of rural life ten to twenty years ago, has ceased, and that is not the case. So we are saying that the emphasis would be on responsible animal farming, and that in my opinion responsible livestock farming should not be achieved primarily by punishment and laws, but, indeed, by information, propaganda and everything else, we should start here, and then those who are not affected by it, and who are really involved in animals, will have to be subject to sanctions. But we're doing it the other way around, so we're trying to punish, we're trying to create laws that will be almost unfulfilled, and otherwise we're barely spending any money on information. I think it would be a much better place for the money that we have to stop Brussels, by the way. The government spent it on billboards, if, let's say, such an enlightenment program was launched to protect animals. These are, therefore, issues that could be debated, and indeed, I feel that this is the aim of everyone who speaks here - even of Congressman Pócs - I feel that this is his goal, too, but he may be much better at other areas, because he must also love animals, and he would also like to have a normal animal protection - the goal would be to create this together. But that way, we can't bring in a law like that, you make a law like that, and we take it - it doesn't work! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I thank all Members for their contributions and, of course, everyone who has made a valid, professional, well-intentioned suggestion. Of course, with the comment which, if you like, suggested as a live broadcast, who was going out of the room and who was not, or who was qualified for each other's speeches, I do not want to deal with it. Several Members have asked me to answer their specific questions [[Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]] I will do this; moreover, I would like to say to Mr Barándy that as a disciplined man, I will neither smile nor hold my head. Speaking of several speeches by Congressman Barándy, the fact is that you were not only mistaken when you didn't realize that you were in the Chamber, but you made a number of mistakes in your speeches. Several people, especially you, have raised the reason why this bill came before Parliament now, since the EU directive was adopted in 2010 and why we have not transposed EU law so far; Mr Bárándy, if I recall correctly, said that this is the biggest mistake of this bill. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't say that.]] The fact is, Mr President, that you may seem disrespectful now, but not only did you not pay attention when I said my opening speech, but practically more - respect for the exception! - they did not read this proposal, because it is the case, and Mr Szilágyi also raised why we did not deal with this proposal in 2012, because we dealt with it in 2012, because we adopted it on 17 December 2012... [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] That is what you said, Mr President, why the Government is submitting this proposal now and why it did not deal with this in 2012. I can tell you that on 17 December 2012, Parliament, honourable Member, passed the law which transposed the directives, the EU directives, into the Hungarian legal order, in accordance with the EU directive, from 1 January 2013, and, as I said at the beginning, in my introduction or in my opening of the debate, the European Commission examined shortcomings in several Member States, and this bill is about the points in which we had a debate, or, if you prefer, the European Commission had a debate with us. These proposals will be put in place according to the European Commission, otherwise amending the law that we adopted on 17 December 2012. Perhaps most of the words about why we accept them in this form and why now. Another important point, which has been made by several people, which I have been asked to make, is to promise that the Parliament will not be the last to deal with the area of animal protection in this cycle. It's not the last time you're dealing with this. However, if you would have listened to my introduction, I would have literally said:, however, by submitting this bill, the amendment of the Animal Protection Act cannot be considered to be closed, as regards further amendments, the consultation with civil society organisations is still ongoing - it was a literal quote from what I said at the beginning. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] [[14.40]] Congressman Bárándy said they didn't trust us. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No!]] Congressman, if this helps you, we do not trust you either, but this is a more important point: it seems that in the last few years, people do not trust you either, so this is not a difficult problem for us. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The opposition has received more votes than the governing parties! So much for that.]] Allow me to ask you a few questions. We've been talking about Btk more than once. the matter of the amendment. Indeed, it has been well said that in recent months the Ministry of Justice has had a number of working groups to discuss animal protection issues, including issues related to the Criminal Code. When we submit these proposals, it will be worth discussing what we agree on and what we disagree on regarding animal protection and fair treatment of animals. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I would like to draw your attention to this, although I see, Mr President, that the honourable Members are not listening to me as much as I did when I said my opening of the debate, and just as much, however many times you have said it, you do not want to hear the answers, as you did not want to know at the beginning... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is not my problem, but allow me to draw your attention to the fact that according to the provisions of the Criminal Code in force, [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It would have been better to speak in the debate! How good would that have been?]] there is no reason for the court to impose a prison sentence on the perpetrators. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And the court has the opportunity to do so not only as a set of punishments, but also as such. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The speakers who criticised not the law but the application of the law in this respect were right, but again, we hope that we will have the opportunity to discuss it here in Parliament. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] By the way, perhaps out of all the Members, it is possible to argue with Mr László Kiss's comments, or, if I want to be more precise, with his comments, because Member László Kiss was the only one who saw this bill, knew what was in it and spoke about what was in it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] I agree with you, Congressman, on what you have said, I agree that in the very vast majority of society there is agreement on animal protection issues, and I agree that we must do everything in these matters to make sure that we really do both for children and young people and for livestock owners, be they pets or livestock, that as many people as possible are invited to move forward in this respect. Mr Szilágyi said several times, in his over-confidence comment, which shows what mistakes he had just made, the Member said several times, and pretended that life had just begun in the field of animal protection, because he was probably dealing with this for the first time. However, this discussion is an opportunity, although time would not be enough to tell you a few things about what measures we have taken since 2010, for example, in terms of thinking, for example, about neutering or, for example, about the adoption of stray animals or animals in shelters. And I note it quietly, because it is also a mistake, also in interpellation, that they are pretending to be 40 million forints in animal protection this year and in the coming period. Wrong, ladies and gentlemen, there is 40 million forints more financial framework in this regard, as we know that since 2010, civil society organisations in the field of conservation and animal protection have received 3 billion forints. What you need to know - to give some results on stray animals - is that the registration of the mandatory unique marking of dogs older than four months of age was adopted in 2013, and as a result of all these steps, the proportion of stray animals has been steadily reduced over the past few years. And perhaps the most important thing is that the proportion of dogs issued from puppies that are adopted is constantly increasing. By the way, this rose from 77 percent in 2011 by 20 percent, and now 20 percent more dogs are being adopted. I would also like to inform you of the fact that it is perhaps in the Member's speech that we have heard about the acceptance of stray animals and the transfer of ownership... [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] One of them told me, so I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that we are working on a government decree on this, that we are trying to confirm the former process, which I have said, that there are fewer and fewer stray animals and that more and more stray animals are being taken in, because one of the conditions for the acceptance of stray animals is to be neutered. In this regard, by the way, since 2013, I know exactly that the money that is in this area is not enough and will never be enough. However, since 2013, the National Food Chain Safety Office, the Ministry of Agriculture and the University of Veterinary Medicine have been working together to neuterize a thousand dogs in a shelter with the help of medical students, and we will continue this program this year, as the National Food Chain Safety Office will continue its approach-forming programmes that started in 2013 and continues to do since then, for example, within the framework of the Master's programme to draw the children's and adults' attention to the importance of adoption, and of course we will also call out a proposal for both civil society organisations and animal shelters. In addition, the issue of the welfare of farm animals has been mentioned rarely, as a matter of animal protection. The National Food Chain Safety Office is responsible for animal welfare education under clear legal regulations, and more than 4,500 have been trained so far. I was just trying to briefly list the cases we were working on. Of course, this is not enough, because in the coming period, we need to move forward in the field of neutering, we need to move forward in the field of support for civil society organisations, and of course, the most important question is perhaps to move forward in terms of the approach of young people and keepers, so that as many as possible think that animals should be watched and tried to raise them in the way that is good for them. In cases where the definition of animal cruelty is seen as a tightening of its wording, I ask you not to be intimidated by horse farmers, horse racers or police dogs, because it is a matter of life-like regulation. These areas are otherwise not affected by regulation. I'm looking to see if there's any more questions or questions I haven't answered... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Yes! Why didn't you get his opinion on the law for animal welfare organizations? The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, By yelling at me again, it gives me the opportunity to say that we have been asking for the opinion of animal welfare organisations over the last ten years. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: About this? This? They don't even know it!]] We are asking him now, and there has been social consultation in this regard. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: With whom? Who, specifically?]] I, Congressman, can't help it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who specifically? The president's ringing the bell.]] I can't help it, Congressman, that you didn't even know that this law... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who specifically have you spoken to, Mr. Secretary of State?]]
u2017-05-03-104	Congressman Bárándy, the debate is closed. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's the problem! You didn't answer the debate!]]
u2017-05-03-105	... transposition of the directive... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]]
u2017-05-03-106	Congressman Bárándy, the debate is closed. You will have the opportunity to discuss it at the TAB, the Secretary of State will be there, and I have concluded the debate here. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Unfortunately, there is no other answer!]] I'm done arguing, Congressman. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I understand, but there is no other answer.]] I'm warning you. [[Interventions on the opposition side: We just want to hear names! We want names!]] I'm warning you, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-107	Mr. President, I'm asking you to stop yelling at me, because I don't want to argue with a congressman... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why didn't the two laws come in together? That was a question!]]
u2017-05-03-108	Secretary of State, continue...
u2017-05-03-109	...who doesn't know what's in the law.
u2017-05-03-110	Secretary of State, continue.
u2017-05-03-111	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things here at the end of the debate. One: of course, on behalf of all of us - on behalf of the pro-government representatives, I would like to thank all of those social organisations, professionals and civil society organisations. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] his work, which has done much in recent years [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: By name? An intervention from Jobbik's ranks, by name?]] in the field of animal protection. Animal protection remains an important matter for the government [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You have not consulted anyone in the world!]] We will not allow some of them to make party politics a reality with the election campaign approaching, because we believe that in this area we can be truly effective if we can work together. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That is why we should answer the debate!]] The government, the Parliament and, by the way, the civil society organisations that can continue to count on us. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience and attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-112	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain food chain laws until closure. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy is speaking out loud to the better-looking congressmen.]] Congressman Bárándy, I'll wait for you to stop talking. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'm leaving, calm down, Mr. President.]] I think we should respect each other just as much, that if you speak, I will listen to you, if I speak, please listen to me. Thank you. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There's no point in arguing, Mr. President.]] So for the sake of the record again: Honourable Parliament! There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain food chain laws until closure. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy is leaving the meeting.]] The government referral is T/15372. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-05-03-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Food Chain Security Strategy adopted in 2013 has put the relationship between food chain security organisations on a new, modern basis. The effectiveness of the strategy's exemplary, comprehensive approach in Europe has been demonstrated by the achievements of the field in recent years. The full implementation of this strategy requires a review of certain legislation relating to the food chain, which is what the proposal on this House's table is about. The state's mission is to improve food chain security, protect people and society. With this objective in mind, the law on food chain and official supervision will be amended in the framework of the bill. One of the priority areas of food chain surveillance is the control of animal epidemics. Therefore, in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an outbreak of an animal disease, the proposal empowers the national chief veterinary surgeon to set up a national and local disease control centre or to set up a crisis team. We also meet the requirements of EU law with these provisions. The example of avian influenza has also shown that control of epidemics is only possible through coordinated, well-organised official action. These central control centres, which also implement coordination and organisation, are used to effectively manage emergency situations caused by outbreaks. Dear Parliament, The functioning of the State is changing and therefore the primary objective of food chain surveillance is to implement and strengthen the State of supply. The strengthening of eGovernment will allow for faster, more modern service for citizens and better detection and elimination of black trade, counterfeiting and fraud in this area by food chain monitoring authorities. Checks are based on up-to-date registers and IT systems, and the rules on the food chain monitoring information system are added on the basis of the bill. By means of the FELIR, the Authority will be able to know all actors involved in the activities covered by the Food Chain Act. In order to protect consumers' interests, the bill establishes a guarantee condition that only legal products and activities can appear on the market. Connecting activities to a valid FELIR identifier will help eliminate the black economy on the one hand and enhance the effectiveness of traceability. By amending the provisions on FELIR, online access with up-to-date information, accessible by customers at any time and from anywhere, is the priority for cutting red tape. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the food chain security strategy, a credible, state-of-the-art, high-quality laboratory network has been formulated, while the operation of state laboratories and laboratory networks, as well as the conduct of pilot studies, have a number of auxiliary and supportive activities that can be carried out outside the public administration. In order to strengthen the authority side, the bill establishes basic rules for the food police. The management of exceptional food chain events at national level can only be envisaged by confirmed, credible official organisations. The scale of the issue is well felt by the fact that the National Food Chain Safety Office carried out 705 inspections during 2016 in the framework of its central key controls, which imposed a fine of approximately HUF 390 million. Once again, these are just the numbers of the central priority checks. Under the bill, the powers of the food chain inspection bodies will also be clarified and supplemented, strengthening the possibilities for public authorities to act. These rules are all in the interest of the principle that the Authority should intervene as little as possible in the functioning of the economy, but if this is necessary, it should do so as effectively as possible. Dear House, The priority is to provide consumers, in particular children, with better quality and safer food and to improve their eating conditions. In order to improve quality, to make more efficient use of budgetary resources and to minimise supply disruption, a system of quality assurance, including food safety and food quality aspects, should be implemented. In October 2015, the quality-driven catering project was launched in order to renew the Hungarian public catering, with a food safety and quality rating of around 3500 cooking and serving kitchens so far. In the event of the adoption of the provisions of the bill, the legislative basis for public catering will be clarified. Dear Parliament, Provisions requiring the most basic statutory level of certification and periodic technical review of plant protection machinery are also laid down, which also stems from an obligation of Union law. The proposed legislative changes constitute a framework for a system that takes account of the high-quality, pesticide-saving and safe operation of plant protection machinery, the least polluting environment, and the reduction of the producer burden associated with the review. The bill also includes the conclusion of a written contract of plant protection advice. Food safety is based on the production of safe basic vegetable products, which is unthinkable without reasonable plant protection. The long-term cooperation between the manager and the producer is an essential condition for this. Finally, in order to facilitate the credible information of consumers and to complement the food chain law, the bill will allow the publication, in addition to the list of infringing undertakings, of the list of food chain operators that functioned in a regular manner on the basis of the results of official controls. Dear Parliament, On the basis of all this summary - you have obviously seen and reviewed the bill - I ask that the Parliament discuss this and, of course, I ask you to support it. Mr President, thank you very much for your opportunity and attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[15.00]]
u2017-05-03-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk briefly about the main provisions of the proposal before us, which includes, in particular, a comprehensive update of the Law on the Food Chain and Official Surveillance. The proposal addresses some of the most basic issues relating to the technical review of plant protection machinery requiring legislation. It designates the Plant Health Chamber for the relevant register, while at the same time giving the owners of plant protection machinery an appeal in cases where the outcome of the review is contested. The introduction of these regulatory elements is made mandatory by EU directives. There have been discussions on a regulation before, and now this is another step in the matter. In the light of the experience of recent years, I welcome the provisions that will extend the possibilities of the national chief veterinary surgeon. In the event of an outbreak, it is authorised to set up local and regional disease control centres and crisis teams. This is a justified step, which may further increase the effectiveness of the control of animal epidemics. It also concerns the current issue that the proposal complements the public food chain monitoring tasks with the establishment of a professional qualification system and empowers Nébih to carry out priority food comparative studies. I may not even have to explain why these provisions are important when some studies have once again revealed scandalous quality differences in foods marketed in different countries. I would like to highlight, among other things, the clarification of the rules on the processing of personal data in order to operate the risk assessment system for the production of food materials. These provisions also serve to improve efficiency by placing the focus of official controls on more critical points on the basis of the risk assessment. I could also include minor amendments to the functioning of the food chain safety system, such as clarification of the rules on labelling and registration of farmed animals, the increase of the right to choose a free certification organisation for organic farmers or the conclusion of a written contract for plant protection advice. But I would not add to the word, because I believe that, if we look at the amendment that has been read and analysed, it is a current wrinkling of the law and of the legal and consumer protection of the particular challenges, we have a proposal to amend in favour of transparency, which is supported by the Fidesz faction, and we look forward to the constructive proposals of the opposition to it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon applauds.]]
u2017-05-03-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Zsolt Legény, will be here to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not gonna talk about our 15-minute window. [[István Tukacs applauds.]] The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party did not agree with the law that we intend to amend now, so we will not support the amendment of the Food Chain Act either, because we did not agree with the organisational changes arising from the law either. As a result, we do not want to assist this proposal, nor do we want to assist what will happen as a result. There is virtually an end to the speech as a speaker here, but I would like to highlight a few things briefly. The problem itself, which would also be addressed by the original bill, which has already been adopted and this amendment, is a real, existing problem known to society. Overall, food chain control and food safety alone are a very important issue and, in fact, in recent years, the negative news of news reports shows that it is a real social problem. We also need to add that we say, on a scale and overall basis, that some 200 thousand businesses are active in the food sector themselves, and most of them - in more than 90 percent of course - if we can say that they are doing normal, decent and decent work, but there are always companies that are looking for the opportunity to profit, and when they do so at the expense of food, at the expense of the quality of food, that is a very serious problem. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] On these violations, as I have mentioned, frequent news reports do indeed dissuade consumers from what they can and cannot consume, but there were very, very many problems with the original bill that we described in detail at the time. In order to stop stalling, I would just like to say once again that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this bill. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-118	Thank you very much, Mr Zsolt Legény. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, Member, lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-03-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Law on Food Chain and Official Surveillance needs to be amended in order to address the problems encountered in practice. The bill clarifies the activities subject to food chain surveillance, raises the right to change the free certification organisation in the field of organic farming to a legal level, empowers the chief veterinary surgeon to order the establishment of a national and local disease control centre in the event of an outbreak or suspicion of an outbreak of an animal disease, set up a crisis team, regulates the elements of the epidemiological surveillance system. It complements the provisions on the general organisational, management and supervisory functions of the food chain supervisor, the cases of mandatory data transmission. It clarifies and complements the statutory reporting obligation for products subject to authorisation, the FELIR and the Food Chain Safety Centre, trial purchase, on-the-spot verification costs, payment of the supervisory fee, sanctions that may be imposed by the food chain monitoring body, and also complements the provisions on authorisations for implementing legislation. The bill concludes a written contract for carrying out plant protection services including professional advice. The bill also provides for the possibility for the plant protection machine operator to lodge an objection to the food chain monitoring body in dispute. On the basis of the objection, the food chain inspection body will carry out an objective instrumental review of the plant protection machine. According to the bill, agricultural machinery can be handled by a person who has obtained an agricultural operator's licence in respect of that agricultural machine. The acquisition of the operator's licence shall be subject to the completion of an operator's test organised by the institution designated by the Minister or the existence of a specific professional qualification. This obligation still exists on the basis of the FVM Regulation 83/2003 on the introduction of an agricultural and forestry operator's licence and the rules for issuing it, but it is also necessary to create a legal background for the regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill sets out new requirements for mandatory and non-communicative establishments to be classified on request. By amending and supplementing the Food Chain Act, the bill clarifies the requirements for the certification of catering establishments and provides for the possibility of publishing on the website of the food chain monitoring body the results of the certification of establishments. The bill empowers the national chief veterinary surgeon, as I have already said, to set up a central and local disease control system. The bill complements the provisions on the general organisational, management and supervisory functions of the food chain supervisor. According to the amendment, the food chain monitoring body may carry out comparative product tests and tests and participate in the monitoring of the national quality system for the food chain. [[15.10]] By amending the Food Chain Safety Act, the bill makes it clear that the owner rights over the ÉLBC are exercised on behalf of the Hungarian State by the Food Chain Supervisory Body. The operation of state laboratories and the laboratory network, as well as the conduct of experimental tests, involves a number of auxiliary and supportive activities which are not required in the context of a government official relationship, so that these tasks can be carried out outside the framework of the Nebih. The bill complements the provisions of the original Act empowering the Minister for Food Chain Surveillance to operate qualified catering establishments, to recognise quality systems for agricultural products and foodstuffs as a national quality system, to notify the food chain monitoring body of the contract for the provision of plant protection services, to type-rating and periodic technical review of plant protection machinery, and to establish detailed rules for obtaining and issuing an agricultural machinery operator's licence. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill before us, and with its vote it will confirm it, and I respectfully ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-120	Thank you, Mr. Notary, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2017-05-03-121	Mr President, Dear House, I consider this matter to be more important than the attention it pays in this House. Technically, the press reports will also probably be 80 percent about the introduction of a kind of food police, and I predict this, where, right, baton, pepper spray, service dog and handcuffs can be a toolbox for food police or food police. They're obviously going to have a lot of time to figure out when, under what circumstances you're going to use this. But the point behind this is much more serious and can be traced back to much bigger problems. Mr State Secretary, we started working in the Consumer Protection Committee in 2010, because there was a separate Consumer Protection Committee for this Parliament, which was later integrated into the Economic Commission, and since then, obviously, the area has lost its significance, at least in the eyes of the government, and we see that, in terms of food scandals, even though the government is trying to thematicize, not so long ago in relation to products on the Western markets and on the Hungarian market with the same brand, but with different qualities, we see that the consumer protection institutional system has not been strengthened at the same time. The question of the baton, the pepper spray, obviously raises the question of why, if there is such a shaky raid, they should not call the police or inform the organs who are trained for it anyway. So it may seem unnecessary to complicate the system with this. I'm not saying that it's wrong in itself to put equipment in the hands of people acting, I'm saying that this makes sense when combined with efficiency. When, not so long ago, a number of tonnes of spoiled or expired meat, let us say, was struck in terms of a slaughterhouse or at least a mediator - and by the way, it was delivered to markets, not to multi-enterprises, not to members of the multi-networks I have always scolded, but to markets where the buyer could obtain food garbage directly, essentially without control - I say that there is reason for intervention and that there is almost no degree of hardness that I would not support. After all, the greater the assassination than in an agricultural country before us, to pollute food on our family's table, there is very little. But we also see that the device system would be much wider. Here in the presentation, we are looking at the addition of the list on the Nebih website, the register of businesses, the list of activities and sites of food businesses. Well, we don't get a lot of new data from this, do we, because the company records all these data. It may come to interested parties a little more structuredly, but it is essentially from a commercial point of view and may have significance. So this can bring some administrative relief for food products and produce traders, but we should not treat this as a change of regime in this area. As in the case of online test purchases, it was necessary to return the product to the distributor after the verification, and this will not be the case in the future. So the system of controls becomes a little more cost-effective, which is not a bad thing, but again, it is not a systemic change. Basically, I support that the fee for the procedure should always be charged to offending customers and not to a state apparatus. And the available budget of the state apparatus should be used to expand the laboratory system or for other meaningful purposes. But we can see that the positive list is also a cosmetic help. Which I would be very interested in, and I have to come up with a question tsunami, because, in the absence of answers, it is impossible to decide on this proposal. We would be very interested in the composition of the Hungarian laboratory system, so we know what kind of laboratory capacity we know in our own hands. I would like to know why the government considers it useful to solve certain tasks outside the administration. Is this just for cost-efficiency reasons or other reasons? It would be much more comforting for me to have a state-owned lab system, where, where appropriate, investigations are not carried out by those whose products are subject to investigation. After all, there have been many such concerns over the last ten years. What I'm saying is that if we spend a little more time on a system with a public background, but we allow fewer similar overlaps in the system, then our market benefits can be more at the end, and citizens' sense of security and even objective security can be improved. We also need to find out what this ratio is, how many state labs they're dealing with, working together, how much capacity they're renting right now. And I understand that this 705 inspection seems to be a lot in a year, but if we look at how many products and what their composition is on the shelves, then we see that in many cases the products purchased on the markets, which I consider to be safer, do not undergo any kind of checks, and the multi-chain shelves, and often food waste, are subject to ex post and random checks. Obviously, it is not possible to expect not only this government, no one to check each item in advance and piece by piece, because then perhaps all products would cost two and a half times as much, so we are asking you not the impossible, but also the threat to the penalty faced by all manufacturers and distributors, who, if appropriate, places products on the shelf in a misuse of consumer confidence, i.e. the quantity and quality of controls after which, if a defective or poor product is found, the sanction is indeed dissuasive. I would not be looking at the traces of this on the basis of a fine of HUF 390 million, as this is worth examining in relation to something. We can also see that studies not only covering Hungary in recent months have revealed that 2.8 percent of all product masses are, in my memory, contaminated with some kind of chemical residue. These are typically impurities below the limit. I would add in brackets that the limit values were well pushed up just a little while ago, precisely so that this statistic remains within manageable berkek. And I can also see that, yes, a type of vegetable may need to consume 20 or 30 kilos at a time to cause serious damage to the human body, but in the long run, the effects of these substances on the human body are undisputed. And this week, too, there was a debate in Parliament where, following the suggestion of one of our fellow Members, the government was virtually unable to respond to the fact that it had a strategy or not to respond to whether it had a strategy to lead out the agent that was said to be dangerous. The same debate between us is about the presence of genetically modified or rather contaminated components. Many still live in the illusion that they are not on the Hungarian market. However, very few products, the final product, can now be said to be guaranteed free from any genetically modified ingredients through feeding. We also see that the cultivation companies would now want to engage in experimental cultivation by pooling areas. Obviously, in the long term, they want to pollute Europe as a whole so that the American competitive disadvantage at least calms down. This should not be allowed in any way, but we also need to see that the majority of genetically modified ingredients should be pushed out of feeding in some way or in some way. The strategy in this regard, although it seems and in words, has already shown determination in this area by the majority of the Committee on Agriculture in the previous term, there are still debates between us on the outcome. [[15.20]] What bothers me more than any of these things, even though they bother me, that's two areas. One is the range of products produced in double quality by the same manufacturers, let's say. Here, the most outrageous thing about the investigations was that the same packaging product of the same company was marketed in Hungary and Austria - I repeat, both products were manufactured here - and it was of lower quality on the Hungarian market, and it was placed on the Austrian market of better quality. There's no way to deal with such amazing disproportions in any way, it's a disaster. In fact, Hungary has done nothing in recent years. At least an amendment to the trade mark law should be introduced. Now, I'm gonna tell you one big thing: a six-inch beef with a big medal could supply those products where they were made in double quality with any other inscriptions. You can signal to the customer that you're old, you're cheated here, you're led here by this and by this multi-company. Obviously, it is not only possible to beat the dust on distributors in such a case, manufacturers should be forced to make real changes where appropriate. However, it should also be noted that when Jobbik talks about the EU wage initiative, it also wants to eliminate the problem of slow catching up on Hungarian wages so that Hungarian consumers are forced to make consumer and consumer decisions based on their false preferences. So, as long as society is vulnerable, it is bled out - one figure: 854 thousand pensioners living below the minimum living age in Hungary today - so clearly they will decide on the basis of what is cheaper in the grocery store. However, if they are forced to make such decisions, it is obvious that the lower quality of food will end up on their table, where appropriate, in the food industry. That should therefore be prevented. And against double-quality distribution, effective means could indeed be devised here in Parliament as well. I think that the amendment to the trade mark law could be supported by all parliamentary parties in this direction. A declaration to the Union alone, so let us leave the outcome. In fact, we're trying to get help from the poisoners in whose witch kitchen this system was fried against us. So this is a hopeless game. Obviously, Hungarian creativity should be developed. What raises further questions, and without answering which it is also impossible to decide on this proposal in substance, is the situation of Hungarian public catering. I'm really glad that this came up in the Secretary of State expo. In terms of public catering, we should not only talk about the flexibility of the system, but also about the domestic share. It would be very good to know with a percentage accuracy the quality of food sources in Hungarian catering, the proportion of Hungarian crops and products, because the sharing of accurate statistics with the public opinion was saved by this government. I asked four or five questions, and I do not wish to bomb any more, if we get answers to them, then it is also possible to give a meaningful approach to the answer to whether, where appropriate, the establishment of a food police system makes any sense or whether the quantity of controls should be increased or whether it should be of sufficient quality, if necessary, whether or not the laboratory capacity is sufficient or to be expanded, if the data already in the register of companies should be included in a list. So I have to say that we need answers to these. Perhaps you can see and feel the improvement of the intention. It is quite clear that this is a key area above party issues and party policy issues. I consider consumer protection as a whole, but in particular, the issue of food safety must be the question of every Hungarian person who cuts meat and stomach. I presume that it is, too, in this spirit, waiting for qualitative answers to the questions raised. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-122	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. LMP's lead speaker is not in the room. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr Róbert Zsigó.
u2017-05-03-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a short conclusion, since the debate on the bill itself was brief. This, of course, does not mean that it is not an important matter or matter. First of all, thank you all for your speech, of course I thank you for your support and thank you for the proposals that will make the food chain monitoring system better and more effective in all respects. I do not want to provoke you, but I did not understand the sentence in which you said that you would not support this amendment, because you did not support the original bill. Well, what we are talking about to a large extent is an amendment to the law on the food chain and official supervision, which was otherwise negotiated and adopted in 2008. There must have been some kind of mistake. What I am asking of you is that since there are important issues with the food chain, the safety of customers, the food supply, the plant protection products, and I do not want to repeat my exposure, you should consider whether you still support this proposal. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked several questions in his comments, and I will try to answer these questions individually. First he talked about the lab network, and his question was the proportion of the state lab network, if I understand correctly, in terms of the whole, and why it is possible to outsource the facilities outside the public administration. I can inform you that the laboratory network of the National Food Chain Safety Office, which is in government control, covers 100% of the test possibilities that need to be investigated. So I wasn't talking about outsourcing lab tests, I was talking about technical things and details in my expo, like maybe sampling or transporting samples, which doesn't necessarily have to happen in the area of public administration. But again, the Nébih's lab network covers 100% of this area. Recently, on 15 March this year, the National Food Chain Safety Office was five years old, and its activities began five years ago. I can inform you that over 12 million lab tests have been carried out during these five years by the National Food Chain Safety Office. In my debate, I tried to say that the 705 audit and the HUF 390 million fine are not the total audit number and fine for the entire year, these are only the numbers of the Directorate of Central Affairs - within Nébihen, a Directorate of Central Affairs operates with national powers and investigative powers - which showed these figures. Of course, the National Food Chain Safety Office has carried out much more investigations at the request and under the supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture. Allow me two examples. On the one hand, during each priority period, before Easter, before Christmas and during the summer period, the National Food Chain Safety Office and the relevant staff of county government offices, in which we will try to control the current food corresponding to the period, punish those who have sinned against the rules and help businesses that comply with this. Here I am turning to what I have already said: I think that the work of the last five years, in the opinion of the Ministry, and I think that, perhaps, in the view of the customers, it is partly up to our ability to conduct awareness-forming campaigns that are based on credible information. It is no coincidence that any infringement that is perpetrated and which is exposed by the Directorate for Central Affairs will be made public on the Internet so that everyone knows about it. And I think that, since the whole activity is mostly in the interests of that decent entrepreneur in the food chain and through it for consumers, it is important that the database of the Food Chain Safety Office will also be able to find out which businesses do their work fairly and reliably, even after controls. This has an important role to play in the successful work of the coming period. [[15.30]] I think there is only a verbal difference between us in the matter of GMO exemption, because the government is committed not only to the Fundamental Law, but also to the Ministry, the Minister, and not only in words, but also in actions in order to preserve our GMO exemption in all respects. We are also working to inform Hungarian people about the GMO-free marking. I don't think there can be a debate in this. If there can be a debate in this area, then they are part- and technical things, because, once again, the government is committed to preserving the GMO-free nature of Hungarian agriculture. Mr. Congressman told me about the mass catering. If I misunderstood, I apologize. He said that it was as if we were not successful enough that this investigation, the quality-driven catering system project that started in 2015, was trying to assess... - as I said, we have assessed 3500 cooking and storage kitchens so far, the parameters that could be of any importance to both the dining rooms and the authorities. We put the experience and results of each inspection on the website. Both 3500, may not be exactly 3500 today, but the experience of all controls is on the website of the National Food Chain Safety Office, precisely because we do not do it for ourselves, but for the general public, children, their parents and schoolchildren. Mr President, I could talk a lot more about food chain security, but I think these issues were pretty much important. We think, honourable Member, that, in part, the introduction of the food police, the creation of the necessary tools - legal instruments in particular - will certainly help ensure that healthy, safe, high-quality food is placed on the table of Hungarian customers, Hungarian families. That's what we've been trying to do, that's what we're still trying to do. We consider all decent players working in this area as partners, and we continue to work with businesses, civil society organisations and everyone who helps us to do so. For example, as regards dual-quality foods, I would like to inform you that you are in the passage notification of the proposal earlier, so the procedure for notification has started. And not only have we sent the results to the European Commission, but we have also made a proposal that is, by the way, that there should be mandatory labelling of foods which the same manufacturer regards as food of the same brand in a different quality. We hope that we will do everything in our power to make this proposal known on the European stage. We hope that the European Commission will be our partner so that all Hungarian customers can buy the same, good quality, the same composition of food in stores. That's why we've been working, and that's why we're still working. Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. That's all I wanted to say in short. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-05-03-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain land laws until closure. Government referral T/15374. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Nagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2017-05-03-125	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for the floor. The bill proposes to amend the following five laws on current issues relating to earth measurement and soil protection: the 1993 II Act on Land Planning and Land Publishing Committees. Act No CXLI of 1997 on the Real Estate Register Act CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. Act LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund Law 1 and XLVI of 2012 on surveying and mapping activities. amendment of the law. I will briefly describe the reasons for each amendment. The 1993 II. on Land Planning and Land Publishing Committees With regard to the amendment of the Act, the proposal addresses the clarification of the size of areas that can be established when determining the location of the share-land ownership. It was not clear from the rules so far that the territorial minimum laid down by law applies to the plot of land for the applicants, but not to the areas remaining and other areas to be set aside - road and trench - which must be established. During the procedure for the elimination of the undivided common ownership generated by the share-ground expenditure, a significant number of sharing plans were submitted for endorsement, which are likely to have a speculative intention of obstructing the procedure. Since the clause in the change plan is valid for one year, but for a further year in the event of re-capture, the procedure should not continue during that period. The main purpose of the regulation is to ensure that only on the basis of the rules of the Civil Code a real sharing intention can be submitted for endorsement after the procedure for the termination of undivided joint ownership has been initiated. The 1997 CXLI on the Real Estate Register the development of uniform case law and the 2012 XLVI on surveying and mapping activities. In order to ensure consistency with the law, it contains proposals to amend certain legislative provisions in the field of real estate registration by exchanging texts, in a text-encompassing manner. The 2012 XLVI on surveying and mapping activities. With regard to the amendment of the Act, the amendment requires the resolution of the problems identified in the practical application and clarification of the requirements. Certain provisions currently regulated at the enforcement level will also be transposed into the law. In order to carry out the statutory tasks of the Hungarian Defence Organisations and the Military National Security Service, it is necessary to regulate the possibility of providing free of charge data stored in the following basic databases over a network. The amendment clarifies the basic data content of the State baseline survey database and the list of survey work resulting in a change in the real estate register. In practice, the basic state data content of the state survey base database has not been expanded since the entry into force of the law in 2012, so the amendment will correct the shortcomings of the previous regulation. The base points database was already a state base, the base points form the basis of the whole map database. Data are collected from the base point database, no parallel data record is made. A regulation, which was previously in force, will allow technical adjustments to the boundaries of settlements in the event of a mapping error and discrepancies due to natural processes, such as the migration of the border stream in the event of a rapid flow. The powers of the former FÖMI in terms of base points will be supplemented by the government administration of surveying and spatial information. It can therefore decide not only on the transfer and elimination of the base points in the future, but also on the replacement or deletion of the dead points from the database. It is important to point out that the change in text in the amending proposal is justified primarily because of the organisational changes in force from 1 January 2017, and that the current law includes tasks such as the creation of a three-dimensional real estate register, the mapping of szolmély rights on the real estate register maps, so that the layouts of the condominiums form part of the map database. The legislation sets a time limit for these to be implemented. These deadlines cannot be maintained due to the lack of technical conditions, as the systems currently in operation are not suitable for these tasks. It is therefore absolutely necessary to amend the time limits in question. [[15.40]] Some of the time-limit amendments are included in the text-exchange amendments and the other part is at the relevant place of law. LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund With regard to the amendment of law: the National Land Fund includes a number of assets whose value cannot be determined by nature, or is relevant only in relation to a certain legal transaction, such as a land exchange, in relation to the current legal transaction. Such properties are the forests owned by the State, for which there is no uniform system capable of establishing their value. But for many other real estate belonging to the National Land Fund, there is no realistic picture of continuous, value-added records due to a rapid change in values. At the same time, it is important that the National Land Fund Management Organisation makes an assessment of all recovery transactions. Thus, the actual value of the state assets owned by NFA is continuously determined. In line with the accounting standards and the 2001 CXCVI on national assets. The proposal aims to provide for the possibility, as a technical amendment to the provisions of the Act, to keep property belonging to the National Fund of Earth at a rate of space rather than value and, where possible, at a golden crown value, both the owner's rights practitioner and the trust organisation. CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. With regard to the amendment of law, the primary reason for this is that, as a result of the independent amendment of the law to this effect, neither a producer licence nor a combined small power plant permit will be required in the future. The facility will be possible within the framework of a simple construction authorisation procedure, i.e. the entire licensing process environment will be simplified. This simplification should not exclude the amendment of the legislation on the protection of agricultural land, as if these small power plants were to take place in agricultural land, we would still want to provide the investor with the simplified procedure. In order to achieve this goal, the bill states that if a low-performance power plant is to be carried out on land, the real estate authority should grant its permit for other uses of land without having to carry out an on-site inspection on the basis of available documents within 8 days. However, it cannot be excluded from the protection of the best agricultural land in this case either, so the bill states that this simplification option can only be applied if the agricultural land concerned by the planned investment is not considered to be part of the 2003 XXVI on the national spatial planning plan. an area of excellence and good place of production according to law. It is also intended to speed up the authorisation process by setting out in the bill that the installation of a small power plant should be regarded as a stationary use in the direct vicinity of the electricity distribution network suitable for feed-in for a thousand metres. As a result of the above details, the term "low-performance power plant' is added, which takes over the term "electric power' by the fact that wind power plant and wind power plant are not considered to be a low-performance power plant for the purposes of this Act. The proposal is also the 2011 CXCV on public finances. In accordance with the provisions of Act No. 5 of the Act of 1 January 2017, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, a fine which cannot be used by the budgetary body and other revenue which constitutes the centralised revenue of the central budget may only be collected into a centralised recovery account established for that purpose by the Treasury. According to the amendment, the land protection contribution is the central budget. Therefore, both land protection contributions and land protection fines can only be paid to the centralised collection account of the Government Office for this purpose. Dear Parliament, In summary, let me stress that it is necessary to adopt this bill in order to establish a common case-law. However, the reason for this is that the amendment of some of the laws which form part of it is so small, sometimes only one or two stages, that at the end of the session, the Government did not wish to impose the work of Parliament on the negotiations of five legislative proposals separately, but submitted a packaged proposal to this House. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill on the grounds stated, and then adopt it afterwards. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-03-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The proposal we are discussing, as we have heard before, amends five laws. It's a traditional salad genre, but it's not really a long bill, so I don't want to say it for a long time either. The 1993 II. on land management and land publishing committees The amendment of the Act is partly based on the experience of the liquidation of undivided common-owned areas so far, seeking a solution to the problem of the split outlines made with speculative intent. The aim is to provide a frame drawing for endorsement only on the basis of the actual intention of sharing under the Civil Code following the initiation of proceedings for the termination of undivided common ownership. The amendment of the Real Estate Registration Act also addresses a practical problem: it makes it clear when, in certain real estate registration procedures, the property owner should be notified of the various decisions. The amendment to the Land Protection Act is mainly justified by the introduction of land protection procedures for the establishment of low-performance power plants, while the NFA Act should be clarified in accordance with certain provisions of the National Property Act. Although the amendment of the law on surveying and mapping activities is the most important in its scope, these provisions mostly serve to update the law and to align it with the changed institutional background. I would ask my fellow Members to support these proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-05-03-128	Thank you very much, Congressman István Horváth. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-03-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, you want to remedy living problems or problems with this proposal, I add, it may not be successful. So the intention is commendable, the instrument may not have sufficient guarantees. The proposal before us is set out in Annex II of 1993 on land management and land publishing committees. It highlights the clarification of the size of the areas to be established when determining the place of share-land ownership, as a reason for amending the law. On the other hand, the proposal does not contain any relevant guarantee rules on how the interests of joint ownership partners can be enforced. Nor that the size of the property of which they belong, the quality of the area remaining after weighing, in particular its quality, should not be reduced, should not be put at a disadvantage. So if someone here starts to measure their own territory out of the undivided common property, there is a way, but that the others do not suffer depreciation, there is no guarantee of that. They argue in the proposal that the possibility of submitting change sketches on sharing submitted with speculative intent during the procedure for the elimination of undivided common property generated by the share-ground expenditure should be eliminated, as they constitute an obstacle to the conduct of the measurement procedure. They then explicitly refer to the Civil Code in the explanatory memorandum, but they are actually taking action against the Ptk., because their proposal is an obstacle to the Ptk. the procedure for the termination of undivided joint ownership in accordance with the provisions of Article 107 (3) (c) TFEU, and gives priority to the procedure for the elimination of undivided joint ownership, since the Ptk. A change plan for the sharing referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be used if all requests for the termination of joint ownership are not withdrawn. [[15.50]] So they're trying to deal with a real problem on an existing, wide-ranging basis - the civil code, by which I mean - on a legal basis, but, in our view, it's not certain that it's working, there may be cases where there's a violation of interest, or a failure to process itself. The elimination of undivided common property is not only the 1993 II. You can ask by law, but simply by Ptk. I don't think so. Moreover, since the need for State aided surveying could only be submitted by 1 June 2012, the elimination of common land on the basis of the civil code will be increasingly highlighted. This proposal explicitly goes against the Ptk. 583. Paragraph 1 of this Article, which states that the termination of common property may be demanded by any partner of the owner, is null and void, so it is virtually inexorable as copyright. Rather, the legislator should seek to simplify the abolition of common property under the Civil Code and to address a very common problem in the case of land ownership that, if there is a non-quoted person living in an unknown place among its partners, the court should not have to terminate the procedure, thereby preventing the elimination of the undivided common property. The problem in this regard is also well known to your ministry: the real estate register includes a number of owners who are not already alive or found, but the heirs have not yet completed the legacy procedure with regard to the land, so they cannot be quoted at the given address, and often the address is not included in the deed. So here, in order to protect the interests of other owners, a legal guarantee should be given, in our opinion, in addition to the provisions of the Civil Code, in view of the specific property, that it is land. There is a strong concern in the proposal 10. The amendment contained in Section 2 of this Annex. It is apparently a technical amendment to keep the property belonging to the National Fund of Earth at a rate of square instead of value and, where possible, at a golden crown value, both the owner's and the trust organisation. The 2001 National Property Act requires that the national property, its value and its changes are recorded by the owner, but under that Act it could be excluded from recording the value if the value of that property cannot be determined by its nature, nature or difficulty. However, in the case of the National Earth Fund, this proposal could lead to significant abuses and therefore cannot be supported in any way. Think of forests, the value of which is very limited in terms of space. The explanatory statement of the proposal argues that the National Land Fund includes a number of assets whose value cannot, by their very nature, be determined in an exact manner or their value is only relevant in relation to a particular legal transaction, such as the current legal transaction in the case of land exchange. Such properties are the forests owned by the State, for which there is no uniform method for determining their value. But for many other real estate belonging to the National Land Fund, there is no realistic picture of continuous, value-added records due to a rapid change in values. I'd like to make an interesting, up-to-date supplement. Next year's draft budget contains a line of revenue - I say to some of the Fidesz representatives present - that you have set budget revenue for the sale of forests, so what we see here is that you want to manage the forests on a spatial scale, it may be that you are preparing another forest-shaping Fidesz action, because on the revenue side, you are no longer hiding that there is such an intention. While the MSZP Group recognises that it is attempting to address existing problems, we believe that this solution is not sufficient, it does not contain sufficient guarantees, and even in the case of the measure of space and forests, it is explicitly seen as an opportunity for abuse. On this basis, we do not recommend the adoption of the law in this form. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Anita Herring and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2017-05-03-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Ander Balázs.
u2017-05-03-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, the bill on the amendment of certain land laws, we believe that it contains some forward-looking elements in some places, and in many places it is actually purely technical amendments. However, obviously the formula is not that simple. We will make amendments to the bill, and my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, who made amendments, has made it my concern to pay close attention to Mr. State Secretary's exposé. I listened, and at the seventh minute, Mr Secretary of State tried to support the argument on one of the points in question. This is about what my fellow Member, Józsa, has just covered, we do not fully understand, nor can we fully accept, why, in the future, the value-based register is disappearing and why only the spatial register remains. There is indeed a case of forest areas, but also forested areas, such as - let me give you an example I heard from representatives of the local government of Zala county - Nagykanizsa in the case of a former military shooting range. We are in Sand Komárno's territory, it is beautifully forested, and the wood produced there over the decades may have reached a thousand cubic meters, and it has a nice foot, according to some news, which the Jobbik will naturally have examined, and we will look at the story of who and in what form the unruly timber and the tangible money that can be converted from wood has increased. This would be our biggest reservation on the bill, by the way. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to take a look at the amendments that we are adding to this. The support of the Jobbik Group will depend on the form in which you will be involved in these amendments, how constructive they will be. Obviously, we will also try to ensure this constructivity on the basis of reciprocity. What I can say about the bill as a country representative is that, by the way, a land-based amendment comes in this form. We would also like to see other amendments, as I myself, as a South Somogy resident, cannot accept that the Fidesz reforms would operate in a significant part of the Hungarian countryside, because in our area, please respectfully, Mr Secretary of State, I am quite certain that these Fidesz reforms do not work. If, by the way, you talk to local leaders who have a mandate in pro-government colours, then they say, let's say, on the way to the south of Lake Balaton, but let's say, south of Kaposvár, Somogy County is starting to become a reservation. [[16.00]] So what could have been created in the area of land and then, let's say, in terms of Belgian, Austrian and Italian wiener, is obviously not only your fault, but also, let's say, the socialist foundation, but you put a few shovels on it. Just think of what happened in connection with the land auctions, when they were freed from ten thousand hectares of public land in Somogy County, about 12 billion forints of this came into the state register, and a third of this 12 billion forints, so 4 billion was paid by ten large interests, with barked palms, and, indeed, such as the Claesses family from Belgium, who were able to buy up some 24 estates in my constituency, worth almost 1 billion forints. Then you can and should be able to bring the Benetton wiener here, that on those 8-10 thousand hectares - God knows how much control you can already have - how many people you employ, for example. It is in this case that it is possible to say that everything is in vain, because farmers can hardly find an employed person in the Hungarian countryside, what we are talking about the idea of a garden-Hungary, what we are talking about, that we should employ these people who live in these tiny settlements, because if local farmers offer jobs, then there is no man who can take it or who doesn't have a candidate. However, it should not be forgotten that there was a long way to go, let us say, the derailed 27 years of the change of regime, by the time we got there, we either got to this level, or we were derailed to this level, when rural Hungary went into such a vegetative state as we can see. It was not so long ago that the last building of Somogyszentimre, the Somogyszentimre, had a inhabited history of 8,000 years, so archaeologists found artifacts from the mesolytics. 1397, perhaps, if I remember correctly, the first written mention of this settlement in South Somogy, which lies next to Kadarkút, even if it has lost its independence in recent decades. So, the last building of this settlement was bulldozed, where, by the way, in 1886 - I'm sure you know - was opened by a very famous royal land school, where almost one and a half hundred people graduated in the first year, and in the Horthy era, there was a very famous host-trainer here, with a model economy, which, by the way, may be said, would have been the glory of the countries of Western Europe, which, in many cases, would have been modeled as a cooperative. Now it's nothing, it's all gone to waste, just like a lot of settlements in Somogy County and other parts of the country. More and more of the completely extinct, extinct and reclaimed by trees, the forest Cactus, and these examples, these sad examples, will only grow. I recently spoke to a mayor in our neighborhood who had a tragic voice, who could have faced the educational data that promised a sinister future. I see, yes, Mr. Secretary of State, I see that you have a lot to add to all of this, and it is a very complex, complex problem, but if we have a proposal for land policy before us, then please accept it from me, and then, I do not know, forgive me for taking up your time, because what we are talking about here is the future of the Hungarian countryside, the liquidation of the Hungarian countryside, the lack of a force to sustain the population, the fact that the Hungarian countryside is mentally debauched to the point that if, as I said, there is a job, there will be no longer a man to accept it. Within Somogy County, 21 thousand of the 120,000 residential properties are empty, there is no concept of how, for example, they could be used, how to recapture these areas with a new home booking, so that they would not be included in Annex XVIII. In a few decades' time, let's say, in Somogy County, the early 20th century or the post-Turkishman's picture will be open to unguarded travelers. If these processes continue, then what is going on in the Hungarian countryside may continue to happen, and I believe that this Good God will not save the Hungarian countryside in this way either, because these reforms, which the Secretary of State is speaking about, in many cases pro-government politicians, may work from the inner-pest gentleman's quarter, or from Rogán's aspect flying over the Pasa residential park or the Hungarian countryside by helicopter, but, yes, it may work from there, it may work from the Buda gentleman's quarter, or from the center of the flourishing lordship of some of his buddies fattened Döbögítés, but if man makes a roundabout - let me really stay narrower than my pátriam! -, let's say, in South Somogy, then the thing is, all of this is not experienced by people living there. Yet I would certainly like to feel on their own skin all the positive, in many cases false propaganda that you convey from the billboards and the villages that are really insanely insanely filled with posters to the people who live there. We are becoming a sociocultural reservation, and I am sorry to put it this way, the countryside is becoming a real ghetto, and unfortunately, we must experience Latin America, the Latin American model, the terrible split-up, social, economic and, if any, cultural scene that poisons the future of Hungary and completely destroys all the prospects of this nation, and the vision of the ancient settlements with roots before the Árpád era, such as the settlements there, in South Somogy, is fortunate because the people living there are local patriots and proud of the past that we have been able to accumulate in the last centuries or a great thousand years. Secretary of State, that's the thing about us. It would be good if we could meet here at times with laws and legislative amendments that seek answers to these questions. Thank you so much for listening, and please don't take this personally. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2017-05-03-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-05-03-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would be very, very happy to join my fellow somogyologist in his speech, because I think he has just pointed out what is not mentioned in the Hungarian Parliament, and this is basically the fate of the Hungarian people, the fate of the Hungarian countryside, what is happening to Hungarian citizens and how we can stay in Hungary. So this is not something that Parliament is dealing with, but nevertheless the welcome news, I would like to point out to my fellow Member that I trust that I can count on his active participation, because I am very pleased to have met - which I thank my fellow opposition Members - Parliament's debate on the fate of the Hungarian countryside, when we may be able to elaborate on these issues, and perhaps, for this reason, you will forgive me if I go back to the law, because this is also very interesting. God forbid, but I must now agree with the MSZP speaker in the vast majority of cases. [[Ander Balázs is laughing.]] I, too, have to express the concerns that this legislation contains, and I would also warn you a little bit against anyone believing that it is a mere technical regulation, and some of the rules that make a few things easier in detail, since, in agreement with my colleague Józsa, I have the impression that there are a number of risks and mines in this proposed legislation. To refer back to my fellow Member from Somogy, why we are discussing these laws here in Parliament, let me share two strong impressions. For me, there are basically two things about government activity: one is that the fundamental aspect of legislation is what can be stolen, and this is the motivational background of a significant part of the legislation submitted, but if this is not the case, the incompetence, the fact that one area in practice is not so much dealt with, and unfortunately, this affects FM in many cases, as has already been revealed today in the context of animal protection legislation. [[16.10]] Looking at the various aspects of the legislation, I would like to ask you a few specific questions, and I would like to thank you if the Secretary of State would still respond in the debate, because I would like to clarify a few things that we have not had the opportunity to do before. Out of the five pieces of legislation that you wish to amend with this salad, I would first ask CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. to amend the law. What is the technical reason why, in the case of a power plant producing electricity with a rated capacity of less than half kilowatts, the term wind power plant or wind power plant is omitted? It's two things. First of all, there's a good chance that a wind farm is half a megawattt - sorry if I didn't say megawattt - doesn't really exist, so that's irrelevant in this respect, you don't have to put it in. However, the impact of small farm wind wheels on farmland is significantly smaller than, say, solar energy. Mr Secretary of State, I think you can see in the Hungarian countryside that if we spread solar panels in different places, it partly blocks the cultivation of agricultural land by covering it, if we say, by placing it specifically for energy production and not on top of a hodály. However, the effect of a small farm windmill is significantly less, since only its pedestal is present. I know that, for some reason, Fidesz-KDNP does not like wind power, but I would be pleased if an amendment that left this second part of the sentence, the term "wind power and wind power park" should be supported. Because if we're talking about smaller than half-megawatts, then the park is already out of the question, so it's irrelevant whether it's there, while a small windmill of less than half-megawatts, in my opinion, can easily fit in a farmyard or in a place that's not out of the area we might be talking about. I might ask you to consider that, because I think that would be a good thing. The 1993 II. on Land Planning and Land Publishing Committees With regard to the provisions on the amendment of the law, I cannot ignore the serious omission that your government has consistently and continuously implemented since 2010. Every year, tens of millions of budgets are available for the eradication of undivided commons, but no substantial progress remains. Since I've been here for three years, year after year, or every six months, I've been telling you that this is a crazy big problem all over the country, and in a million-dollar scale, there's still undivided land in common ownership, which is very, very difficult to manage this way. The terrible, and perhaps the Secretary of State knows this procedure, that, at the moment, Fidesz's system of proceedings is creating new undivided common property. That's the procedure. Their numbers are not decreasing - they are generated. Their rate is reduced, so if there is a 100-hectare area and it measures up to 60-70 hectares for three or four owners, the remainder remains undivided in common ownership. So we're left with an undivided common, not a decrease in the number, because it's still there, just a small extension. And if it is, let's say, an acacia, then it is divided in regular procedure according to cultivation, so that perhaps two new undivided ones can be created together. I can give you a specific case where the gold crown value of the century is below the property value. So this is an infinitely wrong and wrong procedure. My main problem right now is that I don't see a solution to this. If you feel, Mr Secretary, that the proposal we have just tabled provides any solution to this, please tell me. I do not think that the biggest problem is being addressed, namely how the measurement process can be speeded up, how it can be helped. What will happen to us, what will happen to us, who signed up in 2011 in the state surveying system to pursue the undivided commons, but this has not progressed since then, not even to the person who pre-empted it from his own resources. Some procedural rules make it difficult to measure, let's say, the undivided commons with over 100 owners at such a level that they will not be effective. So the settlement of everything would be an insanely important government task, so I can become less and less tolerant of FM, because they should have been thinking about it for seven years, and they should find a solution to how this can be resolved in the long term. This is a problem in a lot of amazing procedures. I think it is also well known to the FM that in the EU procedure, in the EU legal order, there is public ownership, but this kind of undivided common practically does not exist. In many cases, this virtually makes the background of these procedures impossible as to what we can do with it. Therefore, I feel that this legislation is most incomplete because it is once again trying to settle a small set of rules, to correct a small procedural order, while it does not affect the roots of the problem in any way. So this is my main criticism of this. Now I'm gonna tell you a little problem to take down. This is the 2012 XLVI on surveying and mapping activities. law, which I have the most reservations about amending. My own professional belief is that it was an insanely professional mistake to eliminate the FÖMI. The fact that a government office has been placed under the whole of it and its own procedure has ceased to exist makes it very difficult, in particular, for agricultural governance to be possible. I do not see the battlefields and fronts of small battles between the Prime Minister's Office and the FM very much, you may see this better, but I can say that again in the application procedure, all the professional activities of the FÖMI should be developed at EU level at the level of the first pillar grants. Basically, the importance of remote sensing is increasing everywhere, and it would be possible, in practice, to provide farmers with a significant part of the former MVH's activity in addition to decreasing administration, since the notified land use right is still available in the FM, and FÖMI could analyse all of this without further delay with the current technology. Instead, in a complex system, farmers are drawn year after year and they do not use the technology that would otherwise be available. So in this case, there are a number of measures to be supported in relation to the detailed rules, which would be acceptable, but since they are presented together with others in salads, so unfortunately I cannot provide you with support for this. Here's the most serious problem I'm seeing right now. This is LXXXVII of 2010 on the National Earth Fund. an initiative to amend law. Mr Secretary, forgive me and forgive me, but I cannot accept your opinion that there are assets in the state's land assessment, and these are woody areas for which it is said that there is no good technology for their survey. No way! Well, of course it can. If you get two graduate students out of Sopron University, you will go out and determine your value by a cubic meter. Don't let the FM say that it doesn't have a system. It doesn't have a system if someone doesn't want to keep track of it, even if someone wants to take it home. Basically, there are a number of wooded areas that are not registered. I am talking, say, about the wooded areas along the various roads, the multitude of forest-protected tree lines that may not be in the forest and are state-owned, where the real value is significantly higher than the registration value required for the spatial unit and the golden crown value. I guess I don't have to explain that to the Secretary of State again. If there is a given land, there should be ten golden crowns per hectare, and there is a hundred-year-old oak x cubic meter of wood, do not tell me that the value of the land cannot be measured there, and do not tell me that it is to be paid only in the golden crown. In this, and forgive me, Secretary of State, I see once again the possibility of stretching, stealing. They're trying to get serious assets out of the state by virtually eliminating the background to the stock register. I think there is a good host state and a bad host state. A person who does not want to register his own assets and renounces the right to take real values into account should make use of them for our common national possessions is a bad farmer. For this reason, because of such changes, I do not feel that this should be supported at the least, despite, as I said, that, by the way, there are those in the entire legislative material, i.e. in the salad, which may, on a procedural basis, take a positive measure. In the meantime, they create a significant risk of starting privatisation of public forests through, for example, the NFA. I apologize if I said forest, because we're not just talking wood here, we're talking wood. After all, the woody cover of areas in the non-forest cultivation sector may contain a value of hundreds of millions, possibly billions, which will now become easier to sell without further delay after the adoption of this legislation. Because of these risks, the May Other Group of Politics cannot support this. If you do me the honor of answering some of my points in the debate, I may still be able to think about a few things. I am also confident that I can exchange ideas with the representative of FM in a detailed debate, but at the moment, unfortunately, I consider the risk of the salad law to be significantly more than a positive benefit, so I cannot assure the government of my group's support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[16.20]]
u2017-05-03-134	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see any additional comments. Dear Parliament, As no one wishes to take the floor, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Secretary of State István Nagy indicates that he is. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-03-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is only fair that in a few sentences I try to answer and illuminate the intention that this law or bill was drawn up in this way. I am speaking to my fellow Member, István Józsa, and I thank all Members in advance for the fact that I have sensed that there are a number of elements of this bill which they are also eligible for, that we did not basically have to have a political debate, but that there were professional arguments from all the groups. With regard to the undivided common, I have to say that the criticism is justified. We're fighting a battle against the elimination of undivided common property to which I must say it's superhuman. In this bill, too, we are trying to regulate, we are trying to encourage, to make people interested, to get out of the common undivided. What we need to see is that this form of property on the body of Hungarian agriculture is extremely difficult to deal with, and it is superhuman because it multiplys every day. They die, they redistribute three to five, depending on how many members of the family. It is almost impossible to track and go after it and indeed to eliminate it in a technical way. But I have to say that a very comprehensive thought will be needed in the next time, to discuss the area where the otherwise unprecedented owner is in Australia or Norway or America, or he may have died long ago, but the heirs simply do not want to take advantage of the opportunity because the inheritance costs more than the property itself. We will have to come to an agreement here, within this house, on the area to which the state says that this will no longer be divided. How can the state then involve this in the National Fund of Earth? When will you not be outraged? What's the limit? How can we do that? So it raises an infinite number of political questions, and it will raise more professional questions about how we will be able to get out of the shared undivided. I have to say that now, in the present situation, we cannot compete with the undivided scale of the common, because this is the same area, the number of owners is dividing and multiplying, which causes an infinite difficulty in all of this. Now we are preparing to stimulate some owners who can get out of the common undivided and at least put them in position so that they cannot be harnessed to 10, 20, 50 other owners who want to come out of it and do some farming. It has also been suggested that we want to do this in a measure of space, in a golden crown, and we also have to say - I think honestly - a confession. A task that cannot be done up-to-date, and nothing worse, was raised by our fellow Member Sallai, a good farmer, a bad farmer. I think it's the bad farmer who's deceiving himself, since let's say we model how it's gonna happen if this land is sold. Don't you always take a bid? Isn't it always a public auction? And won't customers always be able to tell you the real price for it? And it's actually the price they pay for it. Therefore, it is necessary and therefore not risky to say that we are sending out college students who do not yet have the experience, but there are not enough people on earth who can determine the value of the wooded areas or any other area up to date, and that if we advertise and sell them wrong, the worse it is, then we are bad farmers. So we must strive to establish the price of competition, and competition can always create a realistic price, right there, because what problem do we have? In Szabolcs, Borsod, Zala or Győr-Moson there will be different prices for the same area. And then we're gonna say there's abuse and abuse? I mean, you have to take care of the appearance of decency, not just the process itself. That is why this is happening, and there is no other intention of abuse on this issue for us. I say to my fellow Member, Balázs Ander, South Somogy, and we have talked about it many times. It always touches me because, on the one hand, it can say it very effectively, it can say it competently, it can be seen that it lives there, and it can be seen that it is living in this problem. Let me tell you without hurting anyone, a case that happened to me. We're in a small village in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, a sack settlement, and I share the same views in rural development, so we agree on that. I went there - I'm an agricultural engineer - to encourage people to farm, set up fattening, fatten 10-20-50 pigs, make money, 2-5-10 bulls a year, and then the money comes, raise chickens and the like, and then it makes sense for the kid to stay in this village, makes sense. And then an uncle comes up and says, "Son, have you said this in many places?" I told you I was trying, that's what I believe. And then he said, "Don't do it." Don't do it, or you'll fail. He said that because we don't want to do that. " Allow me," said he, "to live the life we desire. We don't want to farm anymore. I only told this story because when we look at the sociology of an Árpád-era settlement and the whole process, it is not a government cycle, not just two, it is not just a period, it is a matter of a short period of time, what changes people's attitude, will, and life opportunities in an area, but it is a very long, complex process. The exhausting effect of Kaposvár, the role of the communists beating them into the tees, and they stopped being owners, is a huge problem. Yeah, one of the deadly nails in the coffin is definitely this. But there is no longer - and this is a very big problem for the countryside - the will to farm. [[Dr. István Apáti: They have also taken away their desire to live!]] I have a much greater will to work eight hours in a factory, it's free Saturday, I can take a leave of absence than to get up on Christmas and feed the cattle on Easter's holy day, and if I don't have the luck, then the disease will fall, and I won't have my money, or the acquisition bastard will take it, and he won't pay me what I put in it. So these are all huge difficulties, and this is a very complex process. But there are good examples, and that's why I told you the whole thing. That's what I want to tell you. If the mayors are going to do it there, look at the example of an old-timer. You can claim social land for associations, you can start farming. That's because we're gonna teach people how to plant potatoes again. Strange as it is, they don't know, they forgot. There, in Hajdúnánánás, they learned to garden. The mayor told me that he was happy when he realized that people were starting to take the tiny potatoes home to be planted at home, and he said that we didn't have to hide them from me, let's go, put them together, so that you know how good it is, and then in a garden you can grow the four grams of potatoes, and you can live. The fact that pigs are fattened together, the cattle are raised together, there is a cheese, pasta factory and everything else, so you can start, I say, if there is a man to go after, who can be followed, then it wasn't in vain. But there must be a man who will raise the flag and tell you to follow me. That it's you or the mayor or anyone in this area, that means life, and that's what they do. It is necessary for something to be there, a good teaching treasure to be there, only to believe that it is impossible to force something on people without their will, to give them pleasure and opportunity. The Ministry of Agriculture can be absolutely expected that if associations there require land for social purposes, we will ensure that this activity starts at 2-3-5 hectares, and there a teaching, practicing process can start, which is practically life in that region. Let me tell my colleague Sallai R. Benedek that the wind farm has been mentioned in this House many times. The government has decided not to support the type of energy, because the storage and solution of this is not yet worked out, and the truth is that there would be nothing wrong with the energy produced by the technology if it were not to be bought back by the state at four times the price. Therefore, the story is not good that terrible sums should be spent to ensure that an investment is at all likely to be repaid in the following ways. [[16.30]] Technically, we were talking about the difficult problems of undivided common property. We talked about a good farmer-bad owner. I ask my fellow Members that, after the detailed debate, when we have received answers to the questions and they have seen the Government's intention to make the fate of the Hungarian countryside better and move forward, and how it tries to help us with the issues of the earth, they will be able to adopt this law with a good heart. Thank you very much for your intentions. [[Dr. Dénes Pigeon applauds.]]
u2017-05-03-136	Thank you very much, Secretary of State István Nagy. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the 2012 CLXXXV on waste follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/15366. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-03-137	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 2012 CLXXXV on waste. Since its entry into force on 1 January 2013, law has been on Parliament's agenda several times in order to make the necessary and sufficient changes to the optimal functioning of waste management. In parallel with the decrease in the amount of waste, the amount of waste recovered in the material is constantly increasing. Glass waste, commonly referred to as residential waste, is an exception to the overall positive picture. In Hungary, several glass waste processing plants have recently started to operate, and steps should be taken to make the collection more efficient. The condition of this is that, according to our rhythm of life, the place where we can hand over our glass waste for later recovery is simply, conveniently accessible from our apartment. Glass waste shall be collected separately, but the public service shall ensure that it is taken over separately in less than expected places. Some of the shops already have to take over packaging waste from their marketed products. This is the way the proposal intends to go forward when it reduces the size of the stores that are obliged to take over from the point of view of glass waste, and only glass waste, and also makes it clear, in line with everyday practice, that the store must also transfer the packaging waste if it cannot be clearly established that it was marketed as a product by the store, but that it has similar goods in its supply. The bill before you is now primarily related to the waste management public service. In order to transform the public waste management system, the legislative environment entered into force on 1 April 2016. NHKV, National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. - abridged by the coordinating body - based on its experience, a review of the legislative environment has become necessary. As a result, in order to ensure the stability of the waste management public service, to improve the cooperation of public service providers, legislation should be amended in order to ensure a continuous, smooth supply and uniform provision of the public service. The purpose of the legislative amendment is to eliminate anomalies in the field of waste management and to address certain regulatory points affecting the predictable and sustainable functioning of the public waste management system, of which the following should be highlighted. The bill aims to ensure the long-term non-profit operation of the waste management public service, which is also in line with the government's intention to maintain its revenue reduction. To this end, the bill requires, on the one hand, subcontractors to participate in the waste management public service only if they operate in a non-profit form, following public services. The limitation of the activities of subcontractors applies exclusively to tasks covered by the public service, not to activities provided by other public service providers. The public service operator may continue to use a for-profit company for that purpose. On the other hand, in order to stabilise the functioning of the waste management public service, the bill also allows public service providers to use their free capacity not to endanger the provision of the public service to carry out other activities subject to a waste management licence or registration, on condition that they are obliged to devote their results to the public service. On the basis of the current rules, the obligation to terminate the non-compliance opinion is not clearly regulated and the period of notice for one month is unduly short, with regard to public procurement rules, and is therefore amended to a uniform period of six months, thus allowing the person responsible for the supply to select the new public service provider. The bill pays particular attention to the fulfilment of consumer protection principles in order to protect consumers' rights. Accordingly, the content of the request for payment will be determined on a uniform, guarantee-based basis at the statutory level. Consumers are also encouraged by the provision that the coordinating body is also obliged to perform customer service tasks, to which it may also use the customer services of the public service provider. With this amendment, the coordinating body required to deal with certain complaints concerning the public service fee will also be made more accessible to the public. In the context of the protection of consumers' interests, the bill settles the way in which personal data are processed by authorising the public service provider to process the data necessary for the performance of the tasks and local authorities to establish them in a local regulation. The State shall carry out its tasks in relation to the public service of waste management through the coordinating body. The bill clarifies that waste covered by the public service is owned by the coordinating body. Waste collected separately, if used, has an economic value. Reliable waste is typically owned by the coordinating body by the public services and it is therefore essential that the coordinating body has control rights in relation to its ownership rights on this issue. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of this proposal on the amendment of the Waste Act by their contributions, professional proposals and votes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-03-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-03-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! A few hours ago, we hosted an administrative, regional, development, environmental and climate change committee of the Moldovan Parliament with some of my fellow Members, and a significant part of the discussion was waste management, collection organisation, coordination, way of achieving the objectives and activation of the actors. It was good that we could honestly exchange experiences. We have agreed with our guests that it is essential to motivate the population and other actors, to make them interested in success. [[16.40]] Since it is a complex system with many actors, it is essential to integrate experience into the regulation. It is a great pleasure that this morning's discussion is now taking place, as the bill before us serves this purpose, because it improves an already functioning system by using experience. The proposal amends the operation of the waste management system in eight areas, its essential points are: the collection of paper waste from educational institutions, the compulsory acceptance of glass waste, the non-profit operation of subcontractors, the area of waste management activities other than public services, the recording of the content of the payment notice, the declaration of NHKV's control entitlement, the elimination of the penalty for NHKV and the regulation related to NHKV's customer service tasks. All these changes are intended to ensure that the waste management service is stable, continuous, undisturbed and that better cooperation between public service operators is ensured. The Secretary of State has described in detail the main areas of the proposal, so I would like to emphasise two of these points. We have often said that achieving sustainability objectives cannot be achieved without involving people, without being an active player in the process. At the same time, we also need to create the conditions for joint success, which is why I consider the amendment to the mandatory acceptance of glass waste to be an outstanding part of the proposal, in particular because it brings the solution closer to consumers, and it could even be said to create it by broadening the scope of the shops concerned, since it reduces the size of the shops from 500 sq m to 300 sq m. We know that, in addition to the regulatory tools, education, problems and solutions are a key tool for addressing people, shaping their priorities and shaping their approach in practice. This is why I consider it essential that the proposal focuses on the issue of collecting school paper. The aim of this proposal is, on the one hand, to better shape the students' approach to waste management and, on the other hand, to further increase selectivity in paper waste through the collection of school paper. Of course, this goal requires a professionally sound balance between public service and school opportunities. This is possible from CLXXXV 2012 on waste. Law also creates the possibility for students to collect paper waste in educational institutions at least twice a year, up to five days. However, it is important to note that, after the pupils introduce the waste paper generated in the household into the educational institution, which is considered municipal waste, it should be passed on to the public service provider. To sum up, the present proposal ensures that household waste collected separately will only be transferred to public services. Its aim is to ensure that students in educational and educational institutions are not excluded from the possibility of taking over the paper waste they collect from them in their schools, educational and educational institutions, and are handed over by the institution to the public service provider, and can now be organised within the framework of an educational campaign. In conjunction with the proposals, more objectives can be achieved, thus increasing selectivity through the collection of school paper, more and better quality paper for processors, while NHKV is not economically disadvantaged. Of course, in addition to shaping attitudes, educational institutions must also be economically interested in collecting paper in order to pay off the energy invested; the NHKV.Dear fellow Members, this is also a solution. I think that this proposal is another step towards the sustainability of our country's waste management system, while at the same time serving to maintain the results of the reduction of the costs and to shape our approach; I think it is worthy of our support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-05-03-140	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-03-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The proposal before us is once again a coffin nail in the coffin that this government has done to waste management, because I didn't think it could be ruined any more than that, but we are moving towards getting better. Calling NHKV as a operating system is a powerful exaggeration, because it is the company who had two tasks to deliver the cheques to the public and return the collected money to the public; now, these are the two tasks that have not been fulfilled, even though we have now been able to celebrate the first birthday of this company. Last spring, he started working, and until December, the checks were not delivered to the population, and we found one in my settlement, where the invoice dated 14 January was sent to the population on 14 February. Yeah, well, that's when we ask how the poor resident will pay the check exactly when he gets it exactly a month later than his expiration date. Obviously, every punishment from here on out will be the public's job to pay it off, because there won't be any other option. The NHKV becomes the full owner of the waste collected in the next period, and everyone below it must now be a nonprofit company. The only question we have is why the NHKV itself won't be nonprofit, because then it would be fair that he wouldn't do his job revenue-orientedly. At the moment, however, we see one: a significant part of the amendments are to keep as much money in his pocket as possible, to spend as much money on his own circle of friends, expensive cars, good salaries and expensive office rents, because that is about the maximum performance of this company: when he started operating, he rented expensive offices, bought himself decent, good, middle-class cars, and gave his employees good salaries, that was the added value of waste management. And then let's look at the exact modifications. As regards glass waste, I have said in many cases that, for example, I find it outrageous that in Budapest there is no possibility for the public to collect glass waste, because there is no such trash can. From now on, here's the amendment before us, and now the commercial business has to take back the bottle that's not on deposit. This would, of course, be a good idea for the government to say that it will comply with EU directives, but this is unviable. Can we imagine the public leaving with the little bag and taking the not-light bottles with the cart and trying to find the commercial business where they take the glass in the same shape? I think it's completely unviable. There was a well-functioning system where the glass could be thrown out at the end of the street, because there were such small islands where the population of Budapest could take it. These islands were eliminated not only in Pest, but also in the countryside, and from this point on, they have made the separate collection of waste worse on their own: much fewer people collected the bottle selectively, for example, and threw it into communal waste because they had no other option. I find it unviable, as I said, that people will go with luggage and load up the trunk of the car, and look for which business is willing to take back the glass of the same shape, and then go around the city and the district to see where they can return these bottles. Let's look at the next amendment point, which, I think, is certainly not social sensitivity. The amendment states that if, after the entry into force of the law, the municipality establishes a fee reduction or compensation, it will be obliged not to pay the public service provider, but to pay it back to the coordinating body. [[16.50]] So, from now on, the municipalities should not give the opportunity, so far the otherwise socially sensitive mayors should not be able to give an opportunity to residents who are, say, over 70 years of age or large families, so that they will have to pay less fees, because then the municipality will have to reimburse them? Because that's what we believe is in this amendment. In articles, it has been an outrage in recent weeks that the collection of school paper will also be modified, and that the selective collection of paper will now only be done by NHKV through the public service, because the waste collected is now and exclusively owned by NHKV. We have the joyful news that, fortunately, we have not found it in this amendment at the moment. Maybe the government has come to their senses and didn't submit it. Because what we see is that this is going to be annihilation of another market, where all it seems is that there will be companies that will be able to get it well from NHKV, of course, on a non-profit basis, these waste from selective waste collection can be processed, and the government will surely find the point of dredging back the funds for these friendly companies, so that it will be worth it to them. Of course, the government does not deal with the loss of a lot of jobs at the moment. But basically, we are used to the fact that little people are not the view of this government, it is not important to them, they are not concerned about what will happen to the people who have worked in this area. From now on, NHKV will be able to e-mail out the checks and bills. If this hasn't been done in the mail before, I don't know how they're gonna do it by e-mail. This also draws attention to the reduction of costs, of course, so that NHKV has as much revenue as possible, which cannot do this job. The only question I really have is that if an average family business is going to run this inexactly, and the whole family is going to give us all the help we can to make this company work, and they can't run it, then normally, the head of the family says thank you very much, this company needs to be shut down, and we need to find a better way to do that. I can suggest to the four ministries responsible for Hungarian waste management - because this area is divided into four areas - that they should think about it, stick their heads together and try to establish a system that makes sense, is sustainable and works, because it is definitely not. The public services have already been bled out, most of the companies are government-owned companies on a non-profit basis, they no longer know how to solve garbage shipments, because besides the fact that he has to pay the money if the garbage truck breaks down, so that there is a part in it and people to pay, besides that, they have no income from this, and from now on the system is unsustainable, because NHKV itself refuses to return the money from which this company would be sustainable; what it collects from the population, it forgets to repay. Thus, as we read at the FKF, the FKF has 10 billion HUF outstanding. István Tarlós himself says this system is wrong. Shouldn't you listen to your own mayor if he himself tells you that this system is as bad as it is? If this company doesn't work, if it doesn't do its job, then shouldn't it be done by thanking the young man who runs it and telling him to find another job, and not tens of thousands of people to quit their jobs anyway? I think that there is a once again unthinkable proposal before us now, which has one purpose: to maintain their own public relations. That's the reduction in rent PR action, because it's the maintenance of a marketing operation, which is exactly what people who make a living on their daily earnings don't really feel. Again, as has been said many times, only the wealthy have been truly supported. People who make a living on their daily income do not feel this reduction. That wasn't for them. This was for your buddies who heat pools and fill pools with water. I think that there is an unthinkable proposal ahead of us, which our faction will certainly not be able to support. I really hope there's a point in common sense. Or there's another option that you will be replaced in a year's time, and our government will be able to fix this sector. It's gonna be a lot of work, 'cause you rarely see a sector so badly. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to MEP László Földi, notary, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-05-03-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, For the transformation of the waste management public service system, the legal environment entered into force on 1 April 2016 and in the past period the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. Based on its experience, a review of the legislative environment has become necessary. This review concluded that, in order to ensure the stability of the public waste management service, to improve the cooperation of public service providers, and to ensure the continuous and smooth provision of the public service, the amendment of the legislative and implementing regulation should be implemented. In fact, this is the bill before this House. The proposal eliminates and manages anomalies in waste management by changing regulatory points, thereby making the public waste management system more predictable. The main pillars of the legislative amendments to the operation of the waste management system have already been listed by Mr Secretary of State, before me my fellow Member Mónika Bartos said, but let me mention, however, what is particularly important to me is the issue of the collection of paper waste from educational institutions. I think it is a very important goal that the collection of school paper also involves selective collection of paper waste. I remember when I was a teacher, a principal, that we took the newspaper apart, took the shiny paper apart, and a lot of things. I also think it is very important to note that if children collect paper quasi-selectively, they will actually become conscious waste farmers, so that we can shape the children's relationship with waste, their relationship with waste, and their relationship with paper waste, as well as with plastic and glass, through paper. As with respect to the take-over of glass waste, it is important that trade is involved in the recovery of packaging waste of commercial origin, as is the case for the taking-back of bottles with a deposit fee. It's not a new thing, actually, it was once like that, that we bought the different goods in the store in the bottle, and when it ran out, then we returned the bottle to the store to return them. There was no problem with that. This was obviously when there was no quasi-selective collection of waste. The obligation imposed by the submission is without prejudice to the deposit or deposit fee scheme already in place, since the two take-back schemes contain rules for different cases. While waste in the recycling system of packaging waste is taken over by the distributor and producer of the product, recovery in the deposit fee scheme is limited to the deposit fee product. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I do not wish to spend a particularly long time operating in a non-profit form, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Members have said this well, and I consider it completely unnecessary to repeat it. I think it's important that everyone in this system actually finds their place. I am convinced that this amendment will put things right, and indeed a very good new form of public service will be created, and this will also solve the issue of selective waste collection and the redemption of glass. The KDNP supports the bill before us, and I call on my fellow Members to support you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-144	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your speech. I would like to welcome my fellow Members, and if I manage to correct my glasses, I will give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, What is the problem with the domestic waste management system is obviously not enough 15 minutes to tell you that it would be easier to start from the fact that there is no problem in the waste management system at the moment, but I can't really say that, so I would be interested in the bill. [[17.00]] It is important to me that the Ministry of Agriculture is now putting forward this bill, because in my view it is precisely the part of the waste management objectives covered by the Ministry of Agriculture that is the least served by this proposal, namely the recovery and recycling rates that Hungary has undertaken towards the European Union. I'll tell you why I think that. But it is already significant that four ministries have control over the domestic waste management sector, divided, right, the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the author of this proposal, the Ministry of National Development, the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of Disaster Protection for metal law, the Ministry of Interior, which in exceptional circumstances provides a public waste transport service. The main mantra, the main slogan, is always the reduction of the overhead. In recent times, every bill that comes before Parliament in terms of environmental protection, waste management and energy is said to have to be submitted in order to maintain the benefits of the reduction of costs. In fact, I do not see this in this bill either, how the government will use it to ensure the reduction of the rent. In the long term, it is precisely the bleeding out of selective waste collection, the bleeding out of the waste collection sector, which does not guarantee the maintenance, not only of the results of the reduction, but also of further increases, in order to enable the public to obtain these services at even more favourable prices. After all, in mixed communal waste, we are talking about an unvalued waste mass, waste, which is transported by public services and mostly transported to a landfill. However, in the case of selectiveally collected and selected waste, it is a waste of value, above which the owner may have had so far. After all, since he obviously paid the product fee, paid the various contributions, provided for the packaging material, he provided for the various selective collections of waste to whom he would hand over, who would therefore provide him with the most favourable financial conditions, i.e. most money. By the way, thousands of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have dealt with this so far in Hungary. They made a living, kept their families from taking over, pre-treatment, and re-selling the waste collected selectively to the recovery company. A number of these companies can go bankrupt, not even a few, but all of them as a result of this measure. Since then, only these selectively collected waste can be transferred to the public service operator. It is also an interesting story, as the government now intends to create 19 large regional public service providers out of 109 public service providers. It is also regulated in this law that the person from whom the licence has been withdrawn must carry out his duties during a period of six months' notice. Then, from 109 to 19, the remainder, who no longer receives the licence, can become suppliers to large regional service providers if they become non-profit-making or if they can fulfil the non-profit-making conditions. In the case of selective waste collection, it is not certain that the task should be given exclusively to non-profit companies and only to include this market segment in the scope of the State. After all, in my opinion, they were able to provide profit-oriented, as I have said, mostly Hungarian-owned small and medium-sized enterprises, so before the representative of the government comes to the point that we support multinational companies, we are essentially talking about businesses that provide a livelihood for Hungarian families. It is included in this bill that other activities may be carried out by public service providers depending on their free capacities, but their results can only be used to provide the public service. Then I would like to raise the question of what motivates them to invest energy in other activities. This is also an interesting question in this bill. I think this is one sure way to ensure that these recycling rates, which the government has committed to the European Union, are not achieved; and that these about 2 thousand Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are impossible and unable to do their job. With regard to the collection of school paper, it has also been said that it increases the awareness of children and students, which is true, or at least has been, so far. But, by the way, he also had a goal that was a good source of income for the school, the institution from which excursions were organised, various joint programmes could be implemented. The secret was that there were a few dozen companies that competed for these selective waste collected by students and dictated a better price in a healthy market environment. While this amount of waste can only be transferred to the public service provider, the question is whether it will be worthwhile for the educational institutions to maintain this school paper collection system, which really plays a very important role in the awareness-raising of pupils and in teaching the characteristics of selective waste collection. But hopefully, this system will continue in some form. We can only hope for it. It is also a question to the Ministry of Agriculture that the selective collection of glass waste from shopping malls and shops of more than 300 square meters now becomes mandatory. Previously, this included not only glass waste but also other substances that could be collected selectively. Why did it come out of it, and why was it just the glass waste? This is commendable, by the way, and perhaps one of the few points in the bill that can be supported. Are the 300 square meters of shops prepared for this? Because so far, it has been 500 square meters, and a hypermarket obviously has better qualities and, above all, economic opportunities to build such a selective waste collection in its own territory, and to ensure its conditions. The question is whether this can be done in the 300 square meters of business space. We very much hope that this will also improve the efficiency and processing of the recycling of glass waste. It is also mentioned in the proposal that the municipality must compensate for the aid it grants to the population, not to the public service provider, but to the NHKV. It is clear that this will further reduce the willingness of municipalities to provide such aid. We will see what the future brings, but we are not very optimistic in this respect either. The bill also provides for a non-profit obligation for subcontractors, which I have already talked about. Again, this is not necessarily a healthy approach in our view at the moment in the domestic waste management sector, which now looks like all other sectors: centralization, nationalisation, single management, and obviously any part of it that is profitable, which can generate profit, generate revenue, put it in a common hat, and finance their various expenses, or who knows for what purpose it will be spent, or, in good case, disappears into the bottomless bag of the budget. But that it will not translate for waste recovery and waste management purposes, we are almost certain. [[17.10]] As is the case now, since the establishment of the National Waste Coordinator and Asset Manager, quite a few public service providers have come to the limit of their operational capacity, precisely because, as my fellow Member Anita Heringes has already said, in this case, for example, the Metropolitan Public Space Keeper has an outstanding amount of 10 billion, which virtually renders it impossible to operate, and it may therefore not be able to carry out its task properly in the near future. So this whole centralised model, which is subject to a central waste coordination body, is not a functioning direction, but when a waste bill comes before the House, we say in every debate that the government has taken a direction that does not necessarily serve its functionality in the long term. Indeed, Jobbik was also in favour of public waste management services at the time, especially in relation to municipal waste shipments, only public and municipal owned companies. In the case of selective waste collection, as I said earlier, it is not necessarily the way forward. So that's about what I could sum up the Jobbik faction's opinion on this bill, which goes on a path on which the government started. It is obviously the right of every government to shape its own waste management policy according to its own taste, but there will be a question at the end of it how this will cause the domestic waste management sector to become impossible. There have been signs of this for years, but you are trying to keep this whole system together with new measures and somehow untie it, but it may rot from the inside to the end. It is obvious that the only and all-encompassing slogan, especially in the year before the elections, is the maintenance of the so-called results of the reduction of the rent... - and that in the end it will be precisely the population itself that finances the unsustainableness of the whole system through its various other expenses. It may pay the same amount for the waste transport fee in 2018 as it paid in 2013. However, if the system itself collapses, the Hungarian population, the Hungarian taxpayers, will have to finance it. And if there is already a collapse - and I still have a little time - then I can tell you that it is not necessarily positive that the disaster protection under the Ministry of Interior in places where organisations without a certificate of conformity or without a permit are terminated and there is no proper service provider, in extreme cases they provide for the disposal of waste, which otherwise does not have sufficient capacity and not only capacity, but also proper experience. If this were to happen, there would probably be very soon conditions in Naples in Hungary, and we would have to walk the streets between trash mountains, but I do not want this to happen at any time in Hungary, and I hope that it will not happen, even because after 2018, a completely different government will remedy these problems in a completely different waste management system, and really remedy them, not just unfold the current system. This proposal is not supported by Jobbik. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-05-03-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to ask that you take the liberty of taking part in this debate. His fellow State Secretary was just here. I asked him several times, and yet he said the closing word that we didn't have a chance to respond, even though he said a very interesting phrase in the closing word. He said, Mr. Secretary of State, that they are fighting a superhuman battle against the undivided common. I realized that you guys are fighting a lot of things superhuman, but you're always going down, but that's what waste management is all about. They're fighting a superhuman battle here too, but they're always losing this battle. And the problem is, not to share my fellow Member Kepli's view that you have the right to establish your own waste management, because I do not think you do. The Hungarian Fundamental Law lays down in particular the framework within which these public services should be provided, and you have already crossed these frameworks, since this legislation does not, in principle, include the basic requirement, which I believe the Secretary of State agrees, that the amendments tabled should be designed to reduce the generation of waste in a conceptual manner. Good waste management is about how to produce as little waste as possible. So when you're talking about, for example, the obligation to collect shops over 300 square meters, why don't you want to regulate their redemption. Why don't you want to promote the proper recycling of the function by recycling it in your material? And obviously that's why he's already going in the wrong direction with a bad instrument, a bad practical implementation. My fellow Member, Anita Heringes, has presented the current experience in this regard, I believe. It is a typical example of what my previous pro-government colleagues have said: for example, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos said in the case of school paper collection the preconcept of Fidesz-KDNP that it contains the waste generated at home. Forgive me, I have three of my four children of school age, and I know that's not the case, but when school trips and stuff are being raised by schools, we're simply trying to collect this from every existing place from which I'm not sure it would otherwise be included in the communal waste transfer system. That's why the school fundraiser was good, but as far as I can tell, it's been removed from the amendments, so I don't have to argue with that right now. So the preconception that only home-generated waste occurs at this time is, I don't think it's real. At times like this, I can tell you that a careful parent who wants his child's class to be included effectively will pull out anything from the attic that, by the way, might not be included or collected in the municipal waste collection. And that's why the system is efficient, because it might put back into the system a recyclable waste that might not otherwise be there, so that makes sense. And, by the way, let me get you an analogy on this. For me, it was a cultural shock when I went to Budapest for my current job and regularly passed through II. Circumference. There's all these detoxes. I always thought it was only in Germany, where there were so many useful things. If I hadn't been ashamed, I would've collected it home a bunch of times for people who would've been happy. I submitted a legislative proposal a year or two ago to create the possibility for these browsers to walk again. It was obviously rejected because they said that this was the exclusive right of a waste collector, and it cannot be created. Half a year later, I asked him about what was happening in writing, and the vast majority of these were added to the mixed waste, because there was no capacity to properly handle the waste generated by the detox. So they forbid anyone to take it, but they do not create the possibility that it can be used, and this concept partially contains such elements. My dear and beloved KDNP colleague, László Földi, has now assured the government that KDNP is supporting it. That was a great deal of news. I think if Jesus Christ was to be rejected by the church, KDNP would also support Fidesz. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] In any case, I was happy to do so, but this does not improve the legislation. The main reason why it is interesting to talk about legislation is that in many of its efforts, as I have said, it is not possible to agree with it in its basic concept, since it does not contribute substantially to the reduction of waste generation, and it does not want to create the direction that would be needed to simply reduce communal waste, but rather to resolve the various solutions of the resulting municipal waste. The reason why we need to discuss this widely is because, in detail on 13 pages, the submitted draft legislation itself makes it difficult to make transparent what is happening, with appropriate references to the various pieces of legislation, but if we look between the lines, we see practically that they are trying to strengthen their waste management system that is not fully functioning and which is not fully functioning. Under the current law, all public services in Hungary today should ensure separate collection of some raw materials, paper, metal, plastic and glass. Nevertheless, I think the Secretary of State is aware of the same statistics that I am working with: 28 percent of settlements cannot do this because the system is not built; 22 percent have a system, but because of financial problems they cannot operate it. This means that in half the country, Hungary has undertaken to comply with this principle, we will not even try to do it, because this new system is largely inadequate. It's not for nothing. The 2013 Waste Act granted a deadline until 2015 for the construction of selective schemes, but these two years were obviously not enough, but impossible, since those who were supposed to build them did not receive any support, but took their resources under the banner of the reduction of the costs, so as not to have their own revenue to achieve this. [[17.20]] Obviously, this moment determines the system of the whole thing. After all, if all the resources are centralised and this waste KLIK or Dumpster-KLIK, this total top organisation that was created, and which was also discussed in my fellow Member Anita Heringes's speech, the chances of creating adaptive waste management systems are obviously significantly reduced. Now I am pleased, indeed, to see it in the legislation, I do not know how it is codified, what kind of text it is, but it is practically the treatment of compostable waste, and I thought how good it is. But centrally, its feasibility is almost impossible. If the role of local authorities had remained in this case and had not been neutered, sorry, they would not have neutered out the potential and right of local authorities in relation to this communal waste, it would be practical to ensure that real greening and composting on a small municipal property produce goods locally, while thus there is very little chance that it can contribute substantially to the performance of public tasks. Obviously, this raises the question of how Hungary will be able to fulfil its obligation for the four types of waste by the critically approaching target date 2020. Obviously, the central budget would have an opportunity to do that if they didn't get the money out, and I wanted to say, they wouldn't steal the money out of it. Because the product charging system imposed after packaging and incorporated into the price of products - which has been here several times, because, besides waste management, I think it is the product fee system that we have the most opportunity to meet with the Secretary of State here in Parliament, constantly during the process of cutting - if this were used to improve the current practice of reducing waste generation, then this would be possible. Like collecting, there could be a chance of building a selective collection. Correct if the data is inaccurate, HUF 72.4 billion will come in from the product fees, but only HUF 12.7 billion will be used in waste management, all the rest will be absorbed by the big budget. There will be stadiums and all kinds of wise investments that Lőrinc Mészáros can make. The question is, if you're taking something specifically, why don't you use it for it? The revenues of this could, without further delay, achieve the ability to maintain the directions that have been taken by 2020 in the waste management concept, which you have supported and adopted in principle. There are obviously many aspects of government irresponsibleness. It's not just that he's willing to do things he can't do. Not only is it stealing the money that should be made better for the system, but it also shows that we do not like the previous governments, whether we love them or not, but the 10 billion-dollar infrastructure invested by previous governments is thrown out the window. So what is happening at the moment is that the entire waste management system, which has been built over 15 years, has been shut down by the government, and the state mammoth, which is running late to replace cheap market players, has increased several times in a new system, for which awards have already been distributed, in this case there has been ministerial activity. This risks, in principle, the process that has already been discussed in the long term. Hungary's waste management is on the verge of collapse or has already collapsed, only the communication geniuses of the national cooperation system are acting as if they had not collapsed. Obviously, this legislation could further harm this process. After all, the point at which small operators are being destroyed is in fact the point where small waste companies operating on a market basis are intended to be operated only in the form of a non-subcontracting company, partly - as my MSZP colleague said - could endanger the work of tens of thousands of people, and in part eliminate the motivation that in the small regions where the central supply system cannot build them, there should be a candidate and participant who will do all this. For all these reasons, we have the impression that this legislation or the proposal that has been tabled will make the situation worse. For my part, just to say something positive - because, basically, Mr. Secretary of State's personality attracts us not only to say the wrong thing - so I think that the mandatory take-back of glass packaging in shops over 300 square meters can be a good direction. With the addition that if they had done everything they could to avoid this waste and to create the possibility of redemption, the possibility of cleaning everything more environmentally friendly, and so on, it would obviously have basically helped the system. Keeping a public hearing is not an obligation, it is only an opportunity to install the assembly islands. We think that's a problem. Basically, I would maintain the possibility of social participation and expression for local communities, and I think that this would be a desirable solution. On this basis, I will not recommend the May Other to the Political Group to support this proposed legislation. I ask Mr Secretary of State to consistently stand by his professional positions or professional positions, to try to submit legislation in the next period - or to ask Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén or Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas as rapporteur or applicant - which can clearly contribute to improving Hungary's waste management, reducing the resulting waste and increasing local supply security. I'd like your cooperation on this. I ask that this be withdrawn and that a normal, applicable legislation be brought before this House, with respect. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-03-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. To speak again, Congresswoman Anita Heringes has applied from the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-149	Yes, I have questions, which I hope is still possible in the debate, and not in the closing line, which the Secretary of State is pointing out, that we hope that he will answer these questions before the closing. We need to recycle 50% of the waste collected by 2020. I'd like to ask you how we're gonna do that. Because even according to FM statistics, 40,6 percent, which according to FM we recycle, but this includes the 10-percent waste burning, which I think is exactly what we call recycling. Where are we gonna get enough nonprofit companies to do this? There are those who knew in advance that now we have to create nonprofit companies, and they are already eager to get started on this, or where would so many nonprofit companies come up with this job? As my fellow Member, the LMP Sallai R. Benedek said, there were more than 500 companies in the metal trade, this will make the work of 11,000 workers impossible, and it is feared that, thanks to the current amendment, mostly scrap metal will go into the black economy rather than, as has been, normally collected. We can also fear from the amendment that the number and size of illegal landfills will also increase strongly, which, let us say, I do not think a Member State of the European Union can be a target. That is for sure, and what we can see is that overall the recycling rate in Hungary will deteriorate, because I really do not see it feasible what the government has proposed for glass waste. What I have to ask is that we listened to it for a very long time, and we also had a committee debate where we discussed how NHKV works, and we listened to the fact that so far it was the public service companies who didn't have any information on where to get the bills out, and that is why NHKV can't deliver the checks to the public. So I'm sure these evil public services didn't get the checks out so far, because the municipality didn't collect the money, so I'm sure that was much better. But the only thing we're seeing right now is that it's over a million bills that aren't paid. Then the NHKV may not be able to do its job properly to this day. To solve this, whether they have an idea, or if they accept the proposal that this coordination mammoth company doesn't make any sense and let the normal local government-owned nonprofit companies do their job, because what's in the mayor's hands is still in a much better place than what's in the hands of the state. Thank you.
u2017-05-03-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Sallai specifically asked me to take part in the debate and not just to conclude. That's why I'm raising my voice. I'll start with his thoughts first. When we talk about NHKV Zrt. and confront the former public service system, I ask you to put it in a nuance. Because we all knew the world when there were around 140 public service companies in the country, from the four settlements to the hundreds, and I stress that it is not about these companies operating in a balanced, professionally excellent way across the country, but there was one, and there was one. There were companies that profited from the fee collected from the population, whether they financed a football team or something, and took out the profits, took out the owners, and we thought it was wrong. It is not right to make a profit on a retail service fee, but to pay only what is the value and the cost of the work embodied in the public service. [[17 .30]] And even today, there is a public service company that still operates in a settlement of a hundred-dollar magnitude, has a reserve of 1 billion, and has not yet turned to the government for loss financing for a naughty iron. So companies are different, and we see that this is unacceptable. By the way, the data on NHKV Zrt., which are naturally derived from today's Index, can be done in such a way that the article of the Index four to five hours ago - you are very close to this news portal, I see - is read, but let me say the other part of it, for example, on debts in Budapest! The first amount of the service fee to the FKF, its largest item, 5.5 billion, was paid by NHKV Zrt. on 21 March, 1 billion on 28 April, another 1 billion on 2 May, a total of 7.5 billion, the company agreed on this in March, so there is no overdue debt. Going further to Mr Sallai's thoughts, with whom I agree that, in line with the waste hierarchy, we must devote the greatest amount of energy to preventing waste from being generated. There are a number of such measures, such as those concerning the smallest, ultra-thin plastic bags, which have been effective. In this respect, Hungary is far from the top of Europe, and the stores have driven out this kind of waste or this product, and it is no longer showing up to such an extent, so there are such efforts. To make it so simple that we can switch to deposit fees rather than recovery, let me say here that the deposit fee is not from the devil, and many countries use deposit fees for efficient waste management. But we didn't go on this path a good ten years ago, because in the EU support systems we entered the path of selective collection, collection, collection, four waste streams, in particular glass, plastic, metal and paper, what we can't do is build these systems, means of transport, collection capacities, and then we say that it's good, it's still the maintenance period, but we choose another way, the deposit fee. Besides, there are many drawbacks, in the case of glass, a normal bottle can withstand such a three-time charge, three must be refilled there already, not necessarily because for reasons of food hygiene, because of cracks, and that bacteria can and cannot be cleaned, these bottles are replaced today for aesthetic reasons, unfortunately this direction and there is a debate about whether it is worth moving air with the bottles back and forth, so which one has a greater impact on the ecological footprint, the one-way bottles being crushed, transported or refilled. There is a failure in the case of biodegradable waste, and I believe that one of the largest reserves is in this regard in domestic waste management, and I agree with the Member, and I believe that action should be taken here with the involvement of municipal authorities. There are proposals, for example, in the rural development programme, municipalities can buy shredders to keep the outskirts in order, which can be used to grind small settlements, which private households are not yet able to do, but this solution cannot be used in a big city, where the service provider must enter. I believe that, in the coming time, it will be possible, with specific agreements, to take such a course for the recovery of biodegradable waste. Product fee: We collect 72 billion and spend 11 billion on this. On the one hand, such an approach may be possible, but it is not common anywhere. Legitimate fee and tax, we collect it legitimately, and we use it for legitimate expenses. It is not that it should be natural for it to be in the same area, and that is my answer. On the other hand, we will, of course, devote 2800 billion to this, because in this programming period only the resources spent on environmental protection and nature protection, which is co-financed in Hungary for far more years than the value of the product fee. Congresswoman Anita Heringes asks about recovery rates. We're talking about two kinds of numbers. Here I think it is important to say that what is an EU obligation is paper, metal, plastic and glass covered by municipal waste, a percentage of these four streams of materials, and the expectations here are 50 percent. In 2015, we were at 42 percent. However, there is also a number that sets expectations in relation to total waste, i.e. industrial and residential, i.e. packaging, compared to industrial and residential, in this respect the glass is lagging behind: 36 per cent and the expected ratio is 60 per cent. That is why we needed the intervention we proposed in this bill. And then I'll wait for the answers, and then I'll talk about the missing elements in the closet. Thank you very much.
u2017-05-03-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sallai R. Benedek is next to speak again. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try not to abuse your patience, and thank you very much to the Secretary of State for giving me the honour of your reply. He's the third FM Secretary of State here, and we're constantly improving our response technique, the Animal Protection Act, and then we could negotiate the land package and salad here. So the problem, Mr Secretary of State, is that you are fully aware that the European Union is increasingly seeking to go into this circular economic and circular economic direction, and that it wants the possibility of using raw materials to be expanded by the Member States. In order to achieve this direction, it is clearly necessary that Hungary, if it wants to take this path, should, after the prevention activity, build a local economic background for creating environmental, infrastructure and industrial conditions. At present, the vast majority of these are not available. Where such efforts have been made, in small regions or regions, they are now destroying even the remaining ones by greatly reducing the potential of these small enterprises, which have defined themselves as environmental enterprises, to participate in this. Then I will tell you a very important difference in perspective - something that I will, I think, will eventually be used against me and the May Other Politics - because I cannot share the opinion when you say that basically the purpose of the government was to pay the population only what is absolutely necessary for transport, and that centralisation has supported this. This is precisely the view that, at the moment, the public is not expected to pay the environmental burden, and Hungarian society is not interested in actively participating in selective collection. Just what was done in this case during the banner of the reduction of costs, which has collapsed waste management, creates the psychological background of the population that it is not necessarily interested in taking communal waste separately. In the event that unselected mixed waste would be heavily burdened with environmental charges and its revenues would be used to achieve selective collection as widely as possible, it would make sense. But at the moment, you are maintaining a system where participation is almost optional, and who is practically voluntary to this, because, I don't know, you have some kind of green attitude that you like, you can address, but the regulatory system itself does not encourage you to force society to think more environmentally friendly and more modernly in waste management by means of specific financial regulation. Overall, thank you very much for mentioning the index article, it is indeed a very good compilation, although I also drew on 24.hu - I don't know who owns it - because the first thing you wrote was that there was a $10 billion subsidy for the public service, and then what God gives, in the days after writing the article, it was announced that some more than 7 billion of it was immediately recovered. [[17.40]] So the media does have power, and I read the article how interesting it was that it happened exactly after the article was written. So if you're talking about the Index, which is a really good source for this kind of speech, don't forget 24.hu, because this deposit wasn't so voluntary, because otherwise you could have made it in the past. It is very, very important to think about what you have raised, Mr Secretary of State, because you have mentioned the limits on why the deposit fee system cannot be converted. In my opinion, in a bad way, it is not worth going or making a mistake not to start building a good path if there is some kind of tender maintenance obligation or something like that. So we should go in the right direction, which is desirable in the long term. But the most important point you mentioned is that, Mr Secretary of State - I don't know what the good word is - you mentioned the ecological backpack, which, as a negative environmental externality, dives into deposit fees in this context. I'm sorry for the expressions, but I think it might be understandable, because indeed, the collection of cleaning, transportation and everything also has an environmental burden, so it is worth considering in the whole life cycle what it is like. But that's why it's a mistake to destroy the little ones, which is why it's a mistake to centralize them, because they create this transport obligation, this collection and recycling obligation. Because if you were thinking about a decentralised system - not only in education and waste management, but also in everything else - then all these external costs would be reduced, negative effects could be created locally... Last, I saw a very good example of this on Nagysárret, Szeghalom, where Sarrét-Tej still had its traditional bottles at the end of the nineties, but did not want to expand because it defined its market within a 30-mile radius. If you, by the way, did not destroy the small ones with the FM agricultural policy, the food aid scheme, and not only gave a card to Sándor Csányi and Lőrinc Mészáros to be involved in the food industry, but also created a background, then this problem could also be dealt with, because it is a decentralised system, it would significantly reduce the ecological backpack that you are therefore quite right to mention. It's very, very important, thank you very much for your response to composting. The interesting thing is that earlier in the various professional programmes there was a relatively wide space for local community initiatives in this direction, either in relation to the Structural Funds or in connection with the earlier environmental fund's target or under the maiden name of the central environmental fund. In particular, I knew a number of such initiatives, where local communities, specifically Honda, were involved in the management of green waste, transported with a small tract, and could be put out separately. And local governments and local communities played a very good role in this. I'll tell you what the problem is, which I'm sure Secretary of State can do by his position: the current Structural Fund notices and current government subsidies do not encourage, and there is no such notice, there is no possibility. In fact, centralisation in the waste management system seems particularly desirable, as all their efforts point in this direction. So if they open the door to this and give a broad space for local communities to make a meaningful move on this, then, in fact, there will be an opportunity for us to move forward in this, too. Furthermore, if we believe that the debate is moving us forward, I would like to deny most of all that you say that legitimate revenue has a legitimate expenditure side. My opinion is that, on the whole, it is always the self-force of the European Union's support systems, which is not the most productive, since it simply releases responsibility from Hungary's hands. By saying, Mr Secretary of State, that there is no need for any improvement in this country, in which the European Union does not co-finance, all resources must be included in EU co-financing. I don't think this direction is right. Just as I do not think it is right that if we collect some kind of funds for some purpose, you should consider the place where they are being used legitimately in the central budget. You're telling us to pick you up, I don't know what the name of this chip tax is, some public health contribution, Neta, I think your exact name is, you're telling us to get this in, you're going into the central budget, you're going to become a Mészáros Lőrinc money or a small train; you're saying that we're going to make a green product fee, there's going to be a stadium; you're going to tell us to collect funds from the other people in the region with different contributions, collect the agricultural chamber fee, there's going to be some skydiving jobs. So what I do not want to accept is that you acknowledge these as legitimate, and I say that if the state is collecting resources for certain purposes, be it health conservation, waste management, environmental protection, then it is clear that the resources collected should be used to address the problem. I understand that, overall, the European Union funds must be self-sufficient to the State, but the fact that it cannot create this from other central budgetary sources proves the poor management of the State and therefore removes the sectoral resources that should strengthen the sector in question. Finally, I would like to thank you with great respect for actually arguing with us and for participating in this conversation, and I will be waiting in the closet for your reactions. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-05-03-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. Since Mr Zsolt V. Németh has indicated that he would like to discuss a few things in the closing word, I will give him the opportunity to close in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-03-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I thank all of you for your active participation in the debate. In closing, I will address only those questions in which I did not speak. Congresswoman Anita Heringes mentioned a coffin nail, about the last nail in the coffin of waste management. Naples syndrome has been mentioned 34 times, the public service collapses in two weeks - MHKV Zrt has been operating for a year. [[Anita Herring: It doesn't work!]] It has not collapsed, waste is taken from all Hungarian households, and what has not been the case, not only in recent years, under your governance, but in the last half century, that it is now being taken away at the same prize for the fifth to sixth year. It's a very important achievement. If you remember the '80s, then there were two certain things on New Year's Eve: Hofi Géza speaking in the New Year's Eve cabaret, and on 1 January we will see how much higher all public service fees go. This practice has ceased, so let me stress that today's system is particularly good for the general public. However, I accept that there are difficulties, but, as the figures mentioned above show, in many cases these are dramatic. So let me specifically point out that the least of the legislative proposals - I say to Mr Kepli, also to Mr Sallai and also to Anita Heringes - will continue to be important and indispensable actors in the private sector in order to gain public service from the private sector. This is about the intention of the legislator to have a non-profit activity in the public service and to operate companies with a majority of public and municipal authorities, in many cases it has not been implemented, so I could say that the law has been played out and non-profit organisations have been set up throughout the country - unfortunately this practice has been common or in many places - that the non-profit organisation has not had any infrastructure conditions, so it has created a non-profit organisation and has given this activity to a for-profit company. He also did so because the public service provider was banned from doing forprofit activities. This was a mistake. So if a public service provider, a public company, has infrastructure, human background, expertise, then it is completely foolish to block the activity that supports the public service itself, the non-profit operation. I think there is a complete mistake about glass waste, because this legislation - confirmed by other opposition representatives, too - is trying to find the form in which a resident will find the most convenient place of glass waste. What's the problem? Unfortunately, a lot of selective collection islands have been dismantled. There are many reasons for this, there are not just service reasons, there are many cases of public protests, otherwise the glass is just the case, because the glass is loud. With the selective island, the inhabitants are as with the bus stop: it is good to have it nearby, but not in front of my house. So it's good to have a selective island nearby, but not in front of my house. Therefore, it will be liquidated, and I also have to say that as a result of residential activity, it will be used for other uses, not just for the four waste streams, there is also a bad pond and half a seslon and all kinds of dead dogs. And through these, the waste islands have been liquidated, not just because the public service wants to save money. [[17.50]] Well, what you're saying is that it's not possible for the old lady to take that heavy bottle to the place where we tell her where. Why would he do that? First of all, the glass is no harder from home to shop than it is from the store to home, and it is even easier because it doesn't have that drink or whatever it is. So it's no harder than that. And once I get the bottle from the store, it's out of contents, when I go to the store, I'll take it back. In any case, it may not be clear from this legislation, and it may be worth an amendment or a more detailed regulation, but we do not want the commercial unit to resolve this in the interior, but in the form of an outside assembly island, to which you can otherwise drive and place it in the most convenient way possible. Where I shopped, I could put the bottle down, all the bottles. Besides, there's no way for the commercial unit to hold my hand, so, yes, there are bottles and bottles, and they weren't, so don't put that in there. So you will be obliged to accept a similar product. We are placing the burden on the municipalities if the municipalities give the residents a fee reduction. Well, that has been the case for a long time, and you will be surprised, Congresswoman, because the 2008 Government Decree, which was issued under your government, has already provided for this. [[Anita Herring: But now we have NHKV!]] Now, nothing else has happened but this has been brought to the legal level. So there's no such thing as social insensitivity. [[Anita Herring: Yes!]] For a very long time, it has been so that whoever decides on a discount will also make up for it. The school paper collection is really out of the draft, and I wouldn't say anything more about it. I would like to emphasise once again that the aim is not to shorten the forprofit sector, and we expect that another public service company, which is already operating, will replace the companies that are now disappearing. All that will happen is that, according to the legislator's intention, in the Hungarian waste management public service, public and municipal owned companies will operate in full and in a non-profit manner. Finally, I would like to answer Mr Sallai's question, who says that there is no element in the current separate collection system, an incentive for a selective collection system, and it is optional that the population will do this or not. Here let me join Mr President in saying that, for example, there are no sanctions. I think this is wrong, but there is an incentive system, because one of the most recent amendments to the law is that anyone who chooses correctly can change the size of the bin, the size of the container, and the size of the container can be reduced. This is easier to do where the quantity is measured, and I trust that this system will fulfill its expectations, but this can only be applied in our hope - and this must be accompanied by sanctions - if someone does this job well, so that it provides a sufficiently pure secondary raw material for industry. Finally, I would like to thank all of you for your comments, we look forward to the amendments that the government is considering, and I am confident that with this amendment we will also create a balanced public service system, and that a more convenient, separate collection system will be established for the residents of the service themselves. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-03-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the integration of cooperative credit institutions until closure. The government referral is T/15375. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-05-03-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The integration of the savings cooperative was established in 2013 to ensure market challenges and efficient operation of the savings cooperative. The functioning of the savings cooperative sector, which was then facing many problems, thus becoming the problem of the entire Hungarian financial market, has been put on a new footing.After 2013, integration has stabilised, so there is no need for a fundamental model change. However, due to changed business conditions, it is justified to initiate regulatory measures to support the profitability and competitiveness of the sector in the long term. The future of integration, in addition to its economic and financial aspects, is a key issue in both social and social policy terms for catching up the Hungarian countryside. The savings cooperative sector has a prominent role to play in providing financial services to the countryside, given that, except for larger cities, only savings cooperatives typically operate in the countryside. Cooperative credit institutions, such as the basic units of the financial system of rural Hungary, can make a major contribution to the development and development of the countryside, knowing local values. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to separate the prudential and business functions exercised by the two organisations managing integration in order to make appropriate decisions. The bill will transfer a number of powers from the central bank to the role of the integration organisation, which will result in only the integration organisation carrying out prudential control tasks in the future, and the management tasks determining the business operation of integration will fall within the competence of the central bank. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the prudential function of the integration organisation. Law-level regulation states the obligation of cooperative credit institutions to cooperate, in the field and off-site inspections of the integration organisation, with more effective options for action in the future. The integration organisation will be entitled to issue mandatory regulators, i.e. policies, guidelines and instructions, on a broader subject than currently available. The essential requirement of the system of measures is to ensure gradual and proportionality in the control of internal processes. As a new measure, the proposed legislation mentions that the integration organisation may appoint a Commissioner for Integration to the cooperative credit institution, who will take over the full authority of the board of directors of the cooperative credit institution. It is important to stress that, given the scope for the enforcement of the guarantee rules, this measure can only be applied if other measures have not resulted in results or are not expected to result from the adoption of further measures to address irregularities. [[18.00]] Another innovation of the bill is that, in the event of a severe weakening of the financial situation, it details the content of the so-called group recovery plan, which is otherwise applied in the credit institution sector, in relation to cooperative credit institutions. According to the legislation, the cooperative credit institution is voluntarily obliged to take the measures set out in this recovery plan in cases where its financial situation so justifies. In the event of non-compliance, the integration organisation may require the organisation to take the necessary measures and at the same time allow intra-integration transfers of stocks to ensure the sustainability and protection of customers' contracts. The performance of these prudential control tasks remains without prejudice to the financial supervisory and resolution powers of the Hungarian National Bank, acting in its role in the supervision of the financial intermediary system. This task will remain with the Hungarian National Bank, which will only carry out its activities in terms of integration as a whole, at group level, within the framework of EU regulation. The legal institution for exclusion from the integration organisation and suspension of membership will be terminated by the bill, as they have not been suitable for dealing with malfunctions within integration, nor have they supported processes to strengthen integration and investor protection. Dear Parliament, The main objective of the bill is to support the achievement of a size-efficient institutional system that allows more efficient business operation, which is one of the most important safeguards for the long-term, safe operation of savings cooperatives within integration. As a result of the merger processes, larger and stronger cooperative credit institutions can be created, which can effectively cover all rural Hungary with modern financial services. At the same time, it is possible to ensure that the national branch network is maintained in order to preserve the simple access of the rural population to services. To this end, the bill allows the integration organisation to participate in the planning and implementation of merger processes. The integration organisation shall lay down in its directives the objectives and principles for transformation, mergers and divisions within integration and shall continue to support and monitor their implementation. Another important element of the bill is the creation of legal bases to enable credit institutions within integration to use a single IT system. In order to achieve this, the bill contains detailed provisions on the development and operation of common information technology that meets the needs of the cooperative credit institution sector, which is modern and can be operated economically at the same time. The system can play a significant role not only in ensuring more effective prudential compliance, but also in ensuring a common and uniform customer service for high-level services. In connection with the introduction of a single IT system, it is necessary to amend certain elements of contracts with customers. This is very limited to the proposal, which also creates the associated guarantee conditions. Certain parts of contracts can therefore only be modified to a justified extent in relation to the introduction of the scheme, but this does not cause any significant harm to customers. In accordance with the credit institution law, the client shall, of course, have the right to terminate free of charge. Dear House, The cooperative credit institutions are protected on the one hand by the National Deposit Insurance Fund and on the other hand the integration itself performs institutional protection functions. Therefore, for cooperative credit institutions, a higher level of customer protection is achieved. In this context, the amendment to the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises is justified in order not to double the payment of a member's fee for the same institutional protection purposes. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the proposed legislation meets the social, political and economic objective of further strengthening the integration of cooperative credit institutions, serving its customers as a stable, reliable financial institution. That is why I would ask you to support the bill after discussion and discussion. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2017-05-03-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Dénes Galambos. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In connection with what Dr. János Fónagy said, I cannot deny a few repetitions, since the elements contained in the bill and which I consider to be important, I would also like to underline in this speech. At the same time, I think that the idea that the Minister of State has indicated that the development of the countryside is significantly linked to the way in which the integration and network of the savings cooperative works, to which we said earlier, that the bank of the countryside, also in my constituency, is a major issue, since as it is also rural settlements, it has a significant impact on local businesses, agricultural enterprises, commercial enterprises and all local businesses. I will discuss this in the rest of my comment. The strategic objective of the cooperative integration is to achieve as close integration as possible and the change of business models. By creating the conditions for close cooperation, savings cooperatives can become a modern and competitive banking group capable of meeting the financial needs of rural people and businesses. By the end of this year, 52 savings cooperatives intend to merge, creating 12 capital-powered and size-efficient cooperative credit institutions. The mergers are in the interest of both customers and savings cooperatives. As a result of the mergers, the more capital-enhancing, concentrated savings cooperatives here are growing faster, providing better quality service, more products and more security for customers. As a result of mergers, the savings group will also become a financial group of capital-strong and stable institutions, providing modern and uniform banking services to its clients all over the country. The main purpose of the legislative amendment is to ensure that the prudential and business functions of the two key institutions of the savings cooperative integration, the Integration Organisation of Cooperative Credit Institutions and the SavingsBank, which carries out the central bank's tasks of integration, can be more precisely separated. This will allow both institutions to support the functioning of the savings cooperative integration more effectively and effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal strengthens the prudential control powers of the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions by bringing the cooperation obligation of cooperative credit institutions to a legal level in the course of controls. In the event of a breach of this obligation, the board of the integration organisation may apply the sanctioning measures granted to it against the cooperative credit institution. The proposal removes the legal institution for excluding from the integration organisation and for suspending membership of the integration organisation, as they do not serve the protection of investors. Achieving a size-efficient institutional system that allows more efficient business operation is a priority objective of the bill. The proposal also ensures the involvement of the integration organisation in the design and implementation of the merger processes. The Management Board of the Integration Organisation shall lay down the objectives and principles for the transformation, merger and division of cooperative integration in directives. All three decisions are subject to the prior consent of the board of the integration organisation, and the integration organisation may order that a general meeting be held with the cooperative credit institution designated by it, where the transformation of the designated cooperative credit institutions should be an item on the agenda. [[18.10]] The transformation shall be decided by the members of the cooperative credit institution. The size-efficient organisation is one of the most important safeguards for the long-term sustainability of savings cooperatives. This will allow the national branch network to remain capable of providing individualised financial services to rural populations and businesses. The Secretary of State has indicated the effects of a single IT system, and I do not want to repeat that. It was also about, Mr Secretary of State, which I do not wish to repeat, that the introduction of a single IT system in the course of treaty amendments should first and foremost bear in mind that customers should not suffer any disadvantage. The proposal includes, as a guarantee rule, that the amendment should only take place in a justified context relating to the introduction of the scheme. In addition to what has been said, the bill amends the 2013 CCXXXVII on credit institutions and financial undertakings. Law, too. In establishing the basic fee to be paid by the members of the National Deposit Insurance Fund pursuant to this Part, account shall also be taken in future of the amount of the membership fee paid by the credit institution in respect of the membership of the integration organisation. In the case of cooperative credit institutions, a higher level of customer protection is achieved, as the members of the savings cooperative integration are protected on the one hand through the National Deposit Insurance Fund, the OBA, and the integration itself performs institutional protection functions. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill contains a number of forward-looking measures. What we have emphasised and emphasised is that this integration really contributes to the better functioning of savings cooperatives with a bank function in the countryside. My own experience shows within my constituency that those businesses, those agricultural enterprises, LEADER groups and those linked to the countryside, all segments of people living in settlements, are all waiting for this network to operate with sufficient dynamism, and I think that its capital strength and solvency ensure that this system can serve the country of the countryside properly. In view of this, I would like to ask that the motion be supported once the opinions have been delivered. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-03-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to go back to the prehistory, to which the Secretary of State pointed in his exposé, before the proposal is qualified. If my wording is a little sandpaper, it's not for the Secretary of State, I respect his work, but I respect the situation that came up around 2013 in the area of savings cooperatives. What happened? With a law, the savings cooperative networks were essentially nationalised, somehow along with the Posta, and then the rules and operation of the nationalised system were modified, and then money was added and privatised. It's a dark story. It's an ugly story. Of course, the man who was the intellectual author of this, along with his fellows, who were friends at the time, is no longer a friend, and he also learned what it was like when public media came after him. But this one should be the least of my worries about what happens to Zoltán Spéder. After all, the story is that there was a functioning system that could, of course, have been debated about its operating conditions and its goodness; this debate was not carried out, but practically swept up the savings cooperative system by a law of forced nationalisation. During the transformation, there were such oddities - to put it this way - that when the new articles of incorporation were adopted, the members could not vote 'no' but 'yes'; this could have been a terribly democratic procedure, I suppose. Therefore, I can't, my fellow Members, honourable Secretary of State, reject this prehistoric history. This case has been inexplicable ever since, and now no one's trying to explain it. At a time when this could have happened in our country, the real goal was probably not to assess the country's bank, but to sweep up a functioning financial institution system. In the previous debate on the agenda, this has already been done in the field of waste management, but this has just happened here in this sector. When the Secretary of State spoke about what the bill actually contains, about the need to separate roles, the role of the integration organisation, the role of the central bank, the role of the central bank, they need to be better described, I don't doubt them, I just have the devil in me at a time like this, whether it's not about people fighting internally, and it has to be fixed in some way; someone who is not on the side of the opposition, but on the side of the governing parties. I hope that's not true and that's not a false hope. At the time of this story, even Posta was in the system by having a network, and he has a well-functioning system. Somehow now this thing seems to be disappearing. For my part, I would like to make an attempt to discuss it professionally, if it weren't for the history of the law. I suppose it would be a good debate if the conditions were normal at the time of formation, but they weren't. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that the Hungarian Socialist Party will not participate in this debate. We do not want to be part of this debate in any way, and we do not want to be part of what happened to the savings cooperatives. The Hungarian Socialist Party does not want to participate in this matter, and we will reject it from ourselves, and we will not debate it for professional reasons, but we will not debate it because of the prehistoric reasons, because it is no longer worth discussing a system privatised for forced nationalism and then for tobacco. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I have predicted that there is no personal edge to what I want to say, but everyone knows this story, everyone knows that, and they may not talk about it in public. Now I've been trying to recreate this nonsense that happened back then. We will never accept this for our part, and we do not wish to discuss whether the separation of tasks is going well or poorly, or whether a single IT system is needed by a single financial institution. Of course I do, it's everywhere! So to look at the so-called bank of the countryside, it is no longer possible to have a good debate about it. I, therefore, do not want to take part in this debate in any way, nor does the Socialist Group want to take part in this debate. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, thank you for the floor. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-05-03-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, We were both here in 2013, when this integration process started, and both of us were vividly and actively involved in this debate at the time, so what you have just said and I will tell you is not the first time we will say it here, within the walls of this House. [[18.20]] At the time, I said and I say that the savings cooperatives with their network, with their rural integration, I would like to stress that with the confidence of the rural people in them, the network itself was still a great asset in Hungarian society, in the Hungarian economy and in Hungarian public policy, in the best sense of the word, public policy, and, of course, still is. What the Member was now kind enough to describe was in fact also mentioned in the debates at the time, and we said, among other things, from the government side as an assumption that Mr. Member - and I must say that he was not alone in this opinion - his concerns were not justified, as the basic idea of the savings cooperatives, the participation of the members of the savings cooperatives, their fundamental rights, the centuries-old past and practice of the whole network have not changed. Today, in 2017, I can say with the strength of certainty that the concerns of 2013 at that time did not come true. The cooperatives remained owned by the cooperative members, practically the integration efforts were in place, which will increase the safety of each member and each of the savings cooperative's clients. I think that it is not decisive for both of us in this political dialogue, which focuses primarily on public confidence, but, for the sake of completeness, I would like to note that this whole process has also passed the test of the Constitutional Court. Clearly, even then, those who disagreed with this have gone through all the steps that have served to question and challenge this process. Dear House, I believe that the process that has taken place in recent years has justified the original efforts, and given that the internal professional content of the legislation that has now been proposed for amendment has not been contested by the Member, saying that his reservations have, of course, been raised because of a previous history from another aspect, let me ask once again that the efforts of the draft legislation before us to improve the professional content of the legislation that he wants to amend and to improve the whole process of integration and the strengthening of internal operation should be discussed and supported independently of the political motivation. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-05-03-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. I'm gonna wait for the Undersecretary in the horseshoe to switch. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend energy laws until closure. The government referral is T/15338. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-165	Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/15338 containing amendments to individual energy laws. Proposal for an amendment, essentially based on technical, legislative and practical issues, covering minor amendments to the laws on mining, nuclear energy, electricity, gas supply and security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products. As I said at the outset, there are basically legal harmonisation reasons for this regulation, so, if you will allow me, my ministerial expo, since there are no substantive changes in the bill in relation to the laws concerned, it will be quite professional and relatively short. The Mining Act contains a philosophically motivated amendment, according to which, if the Hungarian State owns the treasure of the Earth's womb, therefore, when some mining sites cease to have mining rights and there is no new mining right, instead of the so far automation, we would offer the National Asset Manager an opinion on whether it has a exploitation idea in connection with the particular mining area, the mining property there, with which it can directly enforce its rights relating to public property. The usual procedures and payment obligations should, of course, also be imposed in the event of such recovery. The other important amendment reduces the strict regulation of the previously adopted common mine gauges and, in fact, introduces an expediency aspect in terms of the need to assess the work of the common mine gauges in a proportionate manner, and the possible professional error does not automatically lead to a disbarment from the activity, where appropriate. In fact, the amendments to the Nuclear Power Act further clarify the rules of the nuclear installation under construction, the radioactive waste storage facility. In fact, it means clarification, eliminating doubts, but I do think that there will be a debate on this, but this amending proposal also confirms what we said in the previous debate on this subject, when we amended the law, that the government intends to regulate the regulation of the nuclear energy law in this respect in a transparent and traceable and accountable manner. This was still a measure of compliance with an EU normative. Another important requirement is the part of the amendment to the Nuclear Power Act, namely: in line with the EU Directive, we have made it compulsory for the Head of the National Atomic Energy Office to draw up detailed rules for preventing conflicts of interest and co-application bans for colleagues working within the Office. I believe that this can also serve transparency, clarity and better functioning. In the case of the Electricity Act, we had to review the sanctioning powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in connection with the investigation of wholesale markets. In fact, the scope of sanctions has been clarified here, distinguishing between the different penalties for irreparable and irreparable infringements. The same legislation will be included in the Gas Supply Act. It is important in practice and also in preparation for the application of the rules that provide for a timetable for price regulations issued by the Minister responsible for energy policy and the President of the Office, which will provide for appropriate time to negotiate and give consumers, in particular, network users and service providers, sufficient time to comply with the rules on system charges. This is also a clearer and more follow-up regulatory element of the bill. [[18.30]] Regulation on the connection of electricity producers to the private network is also a technical amendment. It is also a means of simplification and clarification that we want to reduce administrative burdens under the Gas Supply Act, as the rules of the network code can be achieved only on the system operator's website in the future. It's an internal professional forum. In our case, the natural person consumers are not affected by this kind of policy. This concerns those who are able to provide consumers with the Trade Regulations. In other words, it affects system operators in particular. In addition, the legislation extends the scope of the contracts on which the natural gas offer system is based by one year and, in addition, aligns the provisions of the law on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products with the legislation on excise duty. There is also an important element of this draft legislation, a draft law, namely the Government is very rightly seeking to move forward in the area of bureaucracy reduction in order to increase the efficiency of the Hungarian economy. One of the elements of this was the need to read electricity, gas, district heating and water utility meters at the same time as 1 January 2018. Data protection concerns have been raised in the development of the specifications. At present, the willingness to cooperate in the sectors concerned is still quite different. Therefore, despite the fact that this is a good aim, but due to the above-mentioned difficulties in preparation, we have provided that the parts of the law designed to amend the law on certain public utility services are not to enter into force. But I stress that the original legislative objective for joint reading is maintained by the government and is working to achieve this as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, That's what my expo has to say. Thank you for your attention, I look forward to the debate, and I will try to explain in other ways the reasons for the amendment.
u2017-05-03-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Gábor Riz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-05-03-167	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The T/15338 ahead. Legislative bill No.1, as has been said, contains, in particular, minor amendments or technical transpositions. The first most important is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Amendment of the Act, the essence of which is that, in the case of mining plots which remain unauthorized as a result of the cancellation of mining rights, the granting of the discretion of the mining authority in the course of the official tender proposes a different solution than the mandatory tender to date. According to the amendment, the mining authority sells or offers to MNV Zrt., which exercises the ownership power of the Hungarian State, the mining right in the physical area in the framework of a tender. On the basis of a preliminary request from the Mining Inspectorate, MNV Zrt. has the possibility, at the beginning of the process, to have ownership of the mineral assets of the State, exercising its ownership powers. This is complemented by the part of the Regulation which refines the rules of prohibition for persons involved in technical assistance, in proportion to the gravity of the irregularity, and in addition to compliance or enforcement of security regulations. The next important part of this salad law is the 1996 CLXI on nuclear energy. Amendment of law, which is primarily in the sense of compliance with EU law. Compliance with the Euratom Council Directive is addressed to Article 9 of the amending proposal. §2 of the Nuclear Act, which requires the head of the nuclear monitoring body to impose a ban on conflicts of interest and co-application laid down in the legislation on government officials and the enforcement of exclusion rules. Within the next chapter, where there are other amendments, the Nuclear Act 6/A provides the highest possible level of responsibility for the safe use of nuclear power. Paragraph 4 of the Act provides that a government official with a post of supervision at the National Atomic Energy Office with a higher education degree may carry out independent control and action activities only if he has passed a successful examination in accordance with the rules of training of the nuclear monitoring body and before the examination committee designated by the Director-General of the Nuclear Power Supervisory Body. The same goes for the fact that, under the law, it is necessary not only to acquire ownership of the existing nuclear installation and to allow its use through any title, but also to obtain the government's prior consent in principle, but also the ownership of radioactive waste storage facilities. The next important item in this law is the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. amendment of the law. This proposes a small-scale amendment, particularly in the context of the international network code. The amendments affect the sanctioning powers of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in connection with the investigation of wholesale markets, depending on whether it is in the interest of a repairable or irreparable infringement. Between publication and entry into force, a single 15-day rule on price regulation will be introduced for preparation, which will also serve the interests of the legislator and of the legislator. The next important item is the 2008 XL on gas supply. The amendment of the Act, which also regulates the provisions of the network code, so that in future only the proposed amendment powers available on the website of system operators would be available on this website. In accordance with the proposed provisions of the Electricity Act, the interval between the publication and entry into force of the fee regulation and the sanctioning powers of the Office will be amended. The next item is XXIII of 2013 on security stocks of imported petroleum and petroleum products. the amendment of Law 13, which contains clarification of the law on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products in order to create excise duty and the 2016 LXVIII. consistency between statutory rules. The Law on the reduction of public utility bureaucracy is amended by CXXV 2016. A proposal for amendment of Law 3 not to be consistent with the functioning of the sectors concerned and with further specifications for the sectors concerned. In this context, there is a difference in the frequency of reading of service providers, a significant difference between different geographical areas, differences between service providers, no information on what other services are used by a user, and which licensees in a given sector do the readings, and no detailed rules for implementation are available. However, the original legislative objective for joint reading is also supported from an energy professional point of view, but will be achieved in the context of the construction of a non-profit utility service for consumers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-05-03-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Apparently, there are only technical modifications to this salad law, but it would actually be good for what isn't in it. I'll talk about what's inside, but maybe more about what's not in there. This is a true salad law; the Ministry has brought here amendments to a number of smaller energy laws, which are virtually unrelated to each other, which are partly dictated by the enforcement experience, in some cases require harmonisation obligations, but other provisions are precisely contrary to EU rules or where the Energy Union intends to move. [[18.40]] There is nothing wrong with this in the philosophy of law or in any way with regard to the solution chosen by the legislator in the case of unauthorized mines. Together with assuming, of course, that the Hungarian National Asset Manager will draw up the rules for its exploitation and make use of the mine floors in a sufficiently transparent manner. We cannot be absolutely sure of the extent to which this country is subject. I'll put it here, I'll put it there, Mr. Secretary of State was very keen on how well it went down. Yeah, well, 30 billion was so high-fived that everything went as beautifully as possible, only the affected, the small owners didn't notice it and they didn't get it right. So I suggest that we look to the Hungarian National Asset Manager, perhaps a parliamentary committee could look at what has been done in recent years. Legitimateness about mistakes made by legitimate surveyors may indeed be lifelike, but once again, with a small addition, by examining good faith. Because the work of the surveyors has an extraordinary financial impact. So if you are not mistaken in good faith, but because you have received more money for this and then there will be a way to continue your work, this may not have to be guaranteed by law. So I would like to draw attention to more caution, or at least to this condition. At the nuclear power plant, there's a small rule about who can get a permanent entry permit, and the intent and intent of the violation: it says here that anyone who goes to work drunk with a permanent entry can't go in again. Because they say you can't drink by accident. It is a deliberate attitude that one chooses to drink alcohol. So I think that there are very simple parts to judge about the mistakes made by legitimate mine meters, and here good faith should be a crucial point. The unsuccessful part of the amendment - and it could have been a good one - is that the measures relating to the meter reading intended to improve the quality of supply for the general public, introduced on 1 January 2018, unfortunately will not enter into force. There is no reason behind it, and Mr Secretary of State said that not everyone has the same willingness to cooperate - they have overcome more resistance in legislation themselves - and that there are certain information protection problems. I don't want to bagatelize it, but probably gas and water data won't get mixed up, because there are significantly different numbers involved. We very much regret the fact that, to this extent, industry has been able to resist and that the ENKSZ has not been able to prepare itself to carry out this task from 1 January. For working people, it can be a very big problem when they receive a ticket to have someone at home from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on this day. That's not how it works. So a service should be a service, become a better quality, and not a waste of user time, but a better quality of care. Although it could be positive that the national authority intends to provide the universal natural gas supplier with a regulated price and quantity of natural gas until 30 September 2019 as an extension of the current system, this method is not compatible with the rules of the European Union. We see that this is part of the context of the current Brussels energy infringement procedure, in particular with regard to the fact that this solution deprives the supplier of the right to choose their contractual partners by creating a supply chain based on contractual obligations. Another point is the fact that a specific source of natural gas must be sold by the producer to specific operators and that domestic production of natural gas can only be used for universal service purposes. The latter provision may also infringe specific primary EU law, namely the right to free movement of goods. This must be ensured not only within borders, but also within the territory of nation states. It is important to note that a well-functioning competitive market can explicitly reduce prices. We have seen European wholesale electricity prices fall by 70 percent since 2008. I know that's what you used to say, Mr. Secretary, that we have the best prices. But if the purchasing prices were to decrease, they could be even better than us, because the trend is to reduce prices at our borders, so what is in here could also be reduced. The European Union's wholesale gas prices, i.e. the price at Hungary's borders, have only decreased by more than 50 percent since 2013. It is completely incomprehensible to us why it does not decrease then, what is in there, which was your election reduction, that in 2011-12 the price of gas was increased by a third and then reduced by a quarter in 13th, it is still being kept at the price when the gas arrives at our borders at a 50% lower price. The question is why this did not appear in the Hungarian end-user prices, who is supported by the government by creating a market for the more expensive Russian gas. It is not the Energy Union that hinders the reduction of overhead, but this is the attitude of the Fidesz government, which has been giving people gas, electricity and district heating more expensively for years. I know, Mr. Secretary, tell me how good it is for the rest of us. But it could be a lot better than we are now. And in vain, Mr. Secretary, how many gas price increases have been made in the last eight years. Then somehow, the world market price went up from about $40 a barrel to $120, so that should be taken into account a little bit. The price of natural gas, as I mentioned, has decreased significantly, and we have seen the Fidesz government's sales of residential gas, electricity and district heating have been more expensive for years, especially as a result of the elimination or destruction of cogeneration than it actually costs. The price of natural gas, as I said, has been halved since 14 and oil could be obtained 60-70 percent cheaper. Meanwhile, for three years, the Hungarian people have experienced that the price of the same price set in 13 is much lower than the price of energy at the border. This, we think, is unfair, unfair profiteering, and it would be nice to find out for whose benefit this is happening. How is it that in 2005 at a 50-dollar oil price there was a 50-forint residential gas, in 2006 at a 60-forint oil price there was a 60-forint residential gas, and today, when the oil price is around 50-dollar, why are we paying twice as much for the gas, 101 forints? [[18.50]] This is the comparative series of figures, Mr Secretary of State, which I believe Szilárd Németh does not understand, because they give him different diagrams, and all he knows is that nine or nine times, but I would like to confront another nine times: the MSZP, if you have observed, supported all previous price reduction measures for the government, whereas the representatives of Fidesz have said no to a reasonable price reduction nine times in the last two and a half years. Then we brought the relevant amendment of the law before the Parliament, and nine times the possibility of a price reduction was voted out. Public gas supply and wholesaler are in public hands, electricity is clear, natural gas is already decisive in the electricity sector. My question is, why don't you give me cheaper gas and electricity, because they could use market tools to get the price down. Why don't you want to beat prices through your own companies like that? Why don't you want to take on a competitive position that could really benefit the population? Whether there is price regulation or not, public companies can give energy for what they decide for themselves, because they are market players, so there is no need to set a stop sign for Brussels, because public companies are the same players in the market, so they can use their own price definition. There is no need to go against Brussels and therefore we do not understand what the aim was. That's why they strengthened state ownership positions in the energy sector, so that when you're in charge of setting prices, you don't take advantage of it? That's not acceptable to us. To sum up: technical details are eligible, there are few problems with them, but because there are also negative measures for consumers and there is no provision for a reduction in prices of residential gas, electricity and district heating, a justified reduction, but it also contains provisions which are in breach of EU rules - as I said, completely unnecessary, because it could also be achieved by market instruments - and we cannot support it on this basis. I would like to mention one point in the moment at my disposal: this is the rules of conflict of interest of the National Atomic Energy Office. So I fully agree that there must be strict rules of conflict of interest here, but, in particular, with regard to the construction of new blocks to be prepared and to the Atomic Energy Agency's tasks proportionate or perhaps even proportionate to this, it is extremely important that the possibilities of payment and remuneration are resolved. So at least one wage-mass management and a lighter, more favourable wage for the Atomic Energy Agency compared to the normal official payment structure, because we may have conflict of interest rules, but we will not have prepared engineers who can reassure nuclear safety because they are going elsewhere for payment reasons. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone still wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. András Aradski's signal:]] Mr State Secretary, I would like to point out that Mr Józsa's speech only covers those parts of the bill, because he did not speak about the bill in about 85 percent of the Member's speech. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-05-03-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was very excited to see if Congressman Jozha would find a reason not to support this good bill - I was not disappointed. Allow me, Congressman, to speak like this, turning towards you. I'm not disappointed in him, but he's found things that, to say the least, are far from the truth, but they sound good here in Parliament. Allow me, however, to set the course of the truth a little bit and tell you that I am a patient man, and I will continue to state our position on this price increase, and I will not make it as simple a move as Captain Sanyi did, but I think that perhaps... [[Dr. István Józsa: The Jobbik...]] Anyway, they're MPs, as far as I know, but let me tell you a few things. While you always doubt whether we give gas and electricity cheaply thanks to the reduction of the overhead, you use a very fine, very elegant slide, Congressman. The whole thing is really brilliant, because when you talk about reducing the price of universal service providers, you always refer to changes in wholesale gas prices at the border every day or every month, but it doesn't work that way, and you know it, Congressman, who has the right experience in energy. The price of electricity and gas provided to households does not depend primarily and decisively on the price at which these two types of energy are sold, such as in the Netherlands or on any other commodity exchange. So let me tell you once again - perhaps you believe and can look into the European Commission's website, which will analyse in detail how retail energy prices developed between 2010 and 2015 in a section on energy union and climate targets. What's Lenin giving you, dear congressman? The retail price of electricity increased by 20 percent in most Member States, especially in England, where 50.7 percent, in Portugal 37.2 percent, in Ireland 30.9 percent, in Greece 46.2 percent. Six countries are exempt from this trend: Czech Republic minus 7.1 percent, Malta minus 23.2 percent, Malta applies a regulated price, Cyprus also applies a regulated price minus 9.1 percent, Hungary with a regulated price minus 27.3 percent, Slovakia also applies a regulated price minus 7.3 percent. Check it out. The same is true with regard to gas prices, where, on average, domestic and consumer gas prices in the European Union increased by 25 percent between 2010 and 2015, mostly in Spain by 72,4 percent, Portugal by 55,9 percent, and England by 58,3 percent. Prices in eight EU Member States fell: in particular in Greece they decreased by 26.3 percent, regulated market; in Hungary they decreased by 36,6 percent, regulated market; in Denmark they also decreased significantly despite not being regulated; in Bulgaria, regulated market, minus 9.3 percent; in Estonia minus 4.2 percent; in Lithuania minus 3.8 percent; in Poland minus 1.4 percent and in Slovenia, where also regulated, minus 9.5 percent. This is the case, you should argue with that, but I believe that the Member is able to argue against the facts. I wish you good luck with that. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-03-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain transport laws until closure. The government referral is T/15379. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Homolya, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor. [[19.00]]
u2017-05-03-173	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains a total of six amendments to the transport legislation. The need for amendment is justified, on the one hand, by experience in the application of the law of the past period and, on the other hand, by clarification, clarification and harmonisation in order to ensure consistency with sectoral and other legislation. The most important elements of the bill are set out below. The amendment of the Road Transport Act concerns a number of regulatory areas. Modernisation of road technical standards is a long-standing problem of the road profession. The amendment of the Act includes, in addition to the establishment of basic rules on road technical specifications, the amendment of the authorising provision in order to enable the Minister for Transport to lay down by regulation detailed rules on the establishment, composition and responsibilities of the Technical Regulation Committee for Road Transport. In addition to the creation of legislation at ministerial level, it is also justified that the body of representatives of the local government and in the capital the Metropolitan Assembly may lay down additional rules for the roads it manages in a regulation corresponding to the local characteristics. The bill also contains the necessary legal authority to do so. There are also provisions on the regulation of the network to support national axle weights and related checks. These amendments concern both the road registration and the so-called motorway law. The design of the TSM system does not change the requirements for permissible axle weight and total weight, but the monitoring of existing legislation will be much more effective. With the amendment, we will also establish a procedural framework for monitoring the objective arm. This is linked to the amendment of the rules on road transport for oversized vehicles. The transport of vehicles exceeding the proposed dimensions or total mass shall be subject to authorisation and, in cases specified by law, to a vehicle accompanying it. Vehicles above defined parameters do not only damage road assets but also pose an increased risk to traffic safety. The amendment clarifies the rules as these vehicles should be withheld, regardless of the time taken for the necessary intervention, until a dangerous situation for traffic safety has been removed. The counterintelligence may be carried out by transhipment, by requesting authorisation and by providing the conditions of the permit. The government has repeatedly stated its support for further expansion of safe cycling. To this end, from this year onwards, it has allocated significant resources to the preservation and improvement of the status and value of bicycle traffic facilities. In view of all of this, the bill provides a solution to the current unsolved operation task of the national bicycle road core network and the sections of the bicycle roads parallel to the main roads outside the residential area by assigning the road management tasks to Magyar Kút Nonprofit Zrt. At the same time, the transfer of the tasks of the road operator of the involved cycling sections to the Hungarian Road does not entail any change in ownership, the bicycle roads remain municipal. The amendment of the Rail Transport Act also concerns a number of regulatory issues. Under the leadership of the Government Commissioner for Cycling and Active Recreation, a working group was formed in November 2016 within the Ministry of National Development, which examined whether the other law on rail transport had fulfilled its expectations, what additional facilitations might be needed. As a result of the work, it has become clear that, in addition to the existing fixed track systems, it is appropriate to establish a more favourable legal environment for railway and museum railways, given that these railways also play an important role in tourism, in the rational use of leisure time and in active recreation. At the same time, it has also become clear that the regulation of tourist drives, as they typically operate on a large railway or small railway track, must be implemented within the framework of the Railway Act. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] On the other hand, the provisions concerning the suspension train and the technical authorisation of the trolleybus overhead line should be subject to the general rules of the Railway Act. From a technical point of view, the suspension train is more like conventional rail systems, whereas the trolleybus overhead line is significantly out of the environment of other rail systems and it is appropriate to apply the provisions relating to the technical authorisation of the tram. The amendments will simplify licensing procedures, reduce administrative burden and reduce procedural charges for these fixed-track modes. The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. The amendment of the Act is justified by the changes in social mobility in the meantime, the change in the legal environment, in particular by the establishment of the Act on General Administrative Rules adopted in 2016 and by better ensuring the conditions of operation of the Budapest Transport Centre. The increase in the limit of the suburban passenger transport service in both bus and rail transport by 100 km is justified due to changed travel patterns, as more and more people go to work in the capital city or in cities with county rights from more than 70 km away. The provisions to standardise passenger complaint handling procedures are based on the provisions of the General Administrative Regulation Act and make these provisions clear. At the same time, the rules on lodging complaints for passengers using or wishing to use rail and bus services are brought into line, thus ensuring consistency in the exercise of passenger rights, consistency of passenger rights procedures, which is also beneficial for passengers. The amendments contained in the bill also provide the necessary legislative environment for the further development of the public transport system in the capital city. Dear Parliament, T/15379 on the amendment of certain transport laws. Legislative proposal No 1 contains legislative amendments in a number of different areas, all aimed at strengthening the efficiency of transport regulation. In view of all this, I ask that the bill be debated and supported. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2017-05-03-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Again, I welcome my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-05-03-175	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us contains clarifications and forward-looking provisions in a number of regulatory areas. These include the modernisation of road technical specifications, which has long been timely. In order to carry out this task, the amendment of the law also includes the establishment of basic rules on road technical specifications and the amendment of the authorising provision. Among the several amendments, it can be pointed out that, in relation to the transport of oversized road vehicles, the motion binds the transport of vehicles exceeding the defined dimensions or total weight to a licence and, in specific cases, to a vehicle accompanying it, while also regulating the cases in which the vehicle may be detained until the situation of safety is resolved. In view of cycling, there is a very important, missing amendment to the bill. For a long time, the construction of roads has been a problem, the development and operation of improved roads outside the residential area on the one hand. The bill now proposes this, in which Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. have the right to carry out the operational tasks of the bicycle routes specified in the separate legislation in connection with maintenance, development and development. So the bicycle roads remain municipal, but the cycling sections concerned will now be managed by the Road, so the operation and handling of many unblessed bicycle routes will finally be possible. In addition, the proposal includes the establishment of a network to support national axle weight and related checks. It is a very important network, the system will be built in 89 parts of the country. It is well known that in many cases the non-regular, i.e. non-authorised axle-weight trucks cause serious damage to the hull, since there is a very strong link between axle-weight and damage. [[19.10]] This system will be able, according to the principle of objective liability, to take a fine decision without stopping the vehicle, and much better with pre-screening and screening, in very many cases without stopping the following truck drivers, especially for domestic trucks - so it does not have to stop to control it - but foreign trucks will also have an effective way of controlling it. I also have to highlight the amendments to the rail law, as the Secretary of State said, which, based on the experience of the past period, contain rationalisations. I would perhaps highlight an interesting thing, the tourist drive, which is obviously a very small point within rail transport, but there have been investment initiatives already in Hungary and in neighbouring countries, which would have created drives on certain railway tracks - usually not used rail tracks - on a tourist basis, and if these had to be established in accordance with the railway law, this extremely complicated authorisation procedure is justified. So now this legislation lays down more favourable rules than general rules. The proposal also clarifies the tasks of the transport authority. Administrative burdens and procedural charges are falling. In addition, in the case of suburban rail and bus services, the decision to set the catchment area limit at 100 km instead of 70 km is due to today's conditions and development, and these changes are proposed in line with the real needs of the bill. In view of the complexity and importance of passenger complaint handling cases, it is appropriate to grant exclusive jurisdiction to the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court in the case of decisions taken by the bus and coach transport authority. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill contains a number of measures and clarifications which improve the conditions for domestic transport in all sectors, so I ask my fellow Members to support the motion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-05-03-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-05-03-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is also good in this proposal, for example, I would like to point out immediately that certain procedural charges are being reduced or that new measures are being taken to ensure safe cycling. It should also be supported that progress can be seen in the spirit of road technical modernisation. This 100 kilometers of suburban is now a little difficult to understand, because it will be classified as 100 kilometers of suburban transport services in the future, instead of 70 kilometers so far, in connection with passenger services between the capital city or the cities with county rights and their catchment area of up to 100 kilometers. If I'm looking at a town with Győr county rights and Budapest relations, it's like it's connected. Or the same between Szeged and Budapest, so Szeged-Budapest will be a suburban transport according to this categorization, which, of course, will certainly improve the quality of life, I just don't know why we have to solve this in such a complicated way to classify it as a suburban. Overall, in addition to the positives, it would be very good to know what the transport organisations, professional organisations, have said about the proposal. It would also be good to know whether this proposal is good enough for István Garancsi and Lőrinc Mészáros, for example, but it is bad enough for Lajos Simicska, because this is also a factor in the legislation of the last period. There are a number of subtle, little interesting things among the professional-looking provisions. For example, the amendment of the Road Transport Act seems to correct a small mistake, a wrong reference, in order to link the appropriate sanction to an appropriate infringement. But this is just the surface, because the point is, in fact, that the Road Transport Act 12. § 4 sanction is imposed by the advertising table............................................................................................................................................................................................................... Does anyone know the concept of a big billboard? This was clearly Simicska's interest before. Therefore, the removal of the billboard and the fine could not be applied to those so-called infringements until now, only in the last two years, with the regulation of which the roll-out of the poster market started to be reorganised in 2012. Article 12 of the Road Transport Act. Paragraph 3e of Article 3e, I quote:. Apart from the section of the road used for the transport of motor vehicles outside the populated area, there shall be no advertising board, advertising carrier or other advertising equipment - for reasons of road safety - as well as a means of advertising for the indication of information. The prohibition shall not apply until 31 December 2010 to advertising boards with a sheet size of 12A/0 on non-highway roads, to signs of company marking and fuel prices in the area of filling stations, and to inscriptions placed on the buildings, on the plot of buildings, containing the name and mark of the company operating in the building. I quote: in addition to the section of the road intended for the transport of motor vehicles outside the populated area, no advertising board, advertising carrier or other advertising equipment, for reasons of road safety, and an advertising device for the indication of information. The prohibition shall not apply until 31 December 2010 to advertising boards with a sheet size of 12A/0 on non-highway roads, to signs of company marking and fuel prices in the area of filling stations and to inscriptions placed on buildings, on the plot of buildings indicating the name, sign (pictogram) or activity of the company operating in the construction works, and to equipment containing information of general interest, which is authorised by the body which determines the professional content of public information boards to facilitate the safety of transport. That was a beautiful catchphrase! It would probably have been better to take this apart, but it shows that this wording was in the interest of someone or someone, and that there is a major reorganization now. I'll continue with the 12th. Paragraph (4) of the Transport Authority shall oblige the owner of the property in whose territory the prohibition laid down in paragraphs 3a, 3c is violated, the sign, the sign, the advertising board, the advertising medium, other advertising equipment, to remove the advertising device or other objects in which the information is provided, and to pay a fine of between HUF 100 000 and HUF 500 000. The fine may be imposed again. So if you do not comply with the removal of the advertising tool, you can go out every week and fine it to HUF 500,000. Interesting. This Law on the Modernization of Transport describes in what precise detail who is to be ruined if in the wrong place you hold a certain advertising sign poorly. It's probably an interest in someone who's been a beneficiary, and now it's not. Let me use a little chronological review. I only spent six minutes of my 15 minutes. In 2012, it was prohibited to place in the road area, above and outside the road any sign, sign, other object or equipment capable of distracting or otherwise endangering the safety of transport. It was the anti-ESMA law, because they used these elephant ears, and they had to be banned because of the business interests of the Fidesz people. But then it happened that Mr. Garancsi bought ESMA, and then the regulation immediately changed. I'll keep going. Furthermore, it was prohibited to place in the road area, above the road, on the road artifact, on road accessories, on public lighting, electric, telephone and other columns, and in addition to the section of the road outside the populated area, advertising signs, advertising media and other advertising equipment. [[19.20]] The reason was then that, in order to reduce more effectively the safety signs and signs along the roads, it was necessary to regulate the size of the boards which could be placed at 50 and 100 metres, as well as the possibility of sanctioning them. That was a tough war attak then, had to kill a certain company. What happened in April 2014? Despite all the contrary efforts, the Curia has decided that electoral posters can be placed on columns, so this prohibition on too strict public lighting columns is excessive and affects freedom of expression somewhere. April 2015: István Garancsi, Videoton and Market Builder Zrt. The owner, by the way, is Viktor Orbán's personal tightrope friend, a good friend of his, bought a hundred percent of the company that had already been destroyed by ESMA. The case has been preceded by the fact that the advertisements placed on the columns were dealt with by the Spanish-Hungarian group of ESMA, which was then a competitor of the Mahir group linked to Lajos Simicska. This ESMA practically went bankrupt after the 2012 ban - which I read about the precise ban on the use of advertising platforms used by ESMA in 2012 - was legal. This is called legislative damage, against which there is not even an opportunity for compensation, because the Parliament itself, the Fidesz majority, has decided to die. Anyway, Garanchi bought ESMA, so put your guns to your feet, we've got a new situation. The Spanish owners left the country at the end of 2015; István Garancsi owns this company, the ban on column ads is lifted. What does God do? In 2012, it was banned, the Garancsi bought it by 15 and the ban on column advertising was lifted. They found out that it was an overly strict regulation, and it doesn't make any sense. The explanatory memorandum merely states that, in Law I of 1988 on Road Transport, the prohibition on placing advertising equipment on public lighting, electricity and telephone poles is lifted. Why not? The rules that did not require two-thirds support could also have been searched in the case of posters. It may also be that someone has noticed the billboards on private property, and it may have shown that they cannot tear them down or fine them - because they are in private territory - the owner, because the rule was not good. There's another big area, and now it's been wiped out of regulation to kill whoever they want to kill. The purpose of the amendment to the Railway Act is to ensure that small railway and museum railways are subject to more favourable regulations other than those of large roads for transport purposes. This is very nice and eligible, so to speak: green mind. It can be seen that, as part of Viktor Orbán's programme towards the railway, there are probably not as many geese as the head of the country would like to see - in 2010, in December 10, the government voted for HUF 10 billion for the development of Hungarian small railway roads, this is number 18003, 2016. CHAPTER XII Decision of the Government of the 20th of the month. The central budget for 2017 already includes an appropriation of HUF 45 million to support small railway stations in the forest. Currently there are 21 small trains for passenger transport in Hungary, of which 15 are forest railways, quite rightly. Several lines have been developed from EU funds, including the Felcsút-Alcsút box 600 million HUF, the forest railway of Szilvásvárad 432 million HUF, and the railway development of Lillafüred 206 million HUF. Interestingly, it is such a decreasing sequence of numbers, even though these small trains are getting better and better. The facilitations include, inter alia, that in order to carry out a special fixed-track transport activity, licences issued by the transport authority and the rail administration are not necessary, because they are very strict and hairy, these activities will simply be carried out on the basis of a notification. It's true that there are people on it, it's true that it's safe, but it's enough to make an announcement. At the same time, the tolerance obligations of the owner of the property adjacent to the track are not mitigated, and what is more, they are enshrined in law that he is obliged to tolerate it. The owner's right to use the property may be limited in the public interest, thereby including a limitation of the bill, which, by establishing a tolerance obligation, allows the company operating the special tied track to place on the property adjacent to the track of the glider and the narrow-track railway the support line and the weak current line, the associated support structure, marker stone, other marking or temporary device belonging to other fixed-track transport systems. Trees and shrubs obstructing the open view must be removed because they are in the way of the train. Orbán and Lőrinc Mészáros may also be refocused on other fixed track lines, as the glider, ski lift and cableway will also receive new and lighter rules now, there will also be a new register, and there will be a certification right for the transport authority as regards the registration data; we will put it up only so that these data do not need to be released for data request in the public interest. It is noticeable that these provisions are set out in Article 66 of the proposal. According to §2 of the Act, it is also applicable to ongoing procedures. What a coincidence! All of a sudden, there's prosperity. (a) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) We will be curious about the story of the gellert-mountain shuttle, which may be built now, whose interests this will increase. It's going to benefit my constituency, so I'm really rooting for the Gellért Hill shuttle to succeed, but whose pocket it's going to fill, I'd really appreciate it if it was the municipality, because then it could be used for public purposes. So I do not want to ignore positive thinking in my speech, and I have served the common good with every single word of it, and I would like the authors to consistently represent this approach. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-05-03-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-05-03-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As a result of my humanity, I do not wish to drag my speech on this subject for long. I would like to join my fellow Member, Józsa, in so far as it is really unfortunate that a law should be adapted to the daily acute policy, to the internal conflict of oligarchs, and to Viktor Orbán's current friend. This should definitely be avoided. However, the bill contains a number of forward-looking and even more elements, which can only be called technical clarification. Which is definitely eligible for funding from Jobbik, such as 14. At last, the protection of the road network appeared at least conceptually. That would be very necessary, by the way. I'm going to talk about this for a few sentences. Or maybe it's 45. §, which allows the establishment of new suburban systems. By the way, this exists in practice, because if you look at the Budapest, Újszász, Szolnok railway line, it will function this way, and if the 100 km limit is reduced to 70 km, this will certainly be a major step forward for suburban transport. The most important element of the bill is the construction of axle weighing systems. If we look at the fact that in Hungary heavy goods vehicle traffic produces an annual negative externality of around HUF 900 billion, and from this amount of HUF 900 billion there is some HUF 350 billion for so-called infrastructure damage - obviously this is not intended in many cases, but the negative externality associated with transport and freight transport - then it should be said that the construction of this axle weight measurement system is a cardinal matter. [[19.30]] After all, if we add that the amount of the tolls, such as HUF 250 billion, is going into the NUSZ, then we must see that Hungary is still in a HUF 100 billion minus. So it is in our fundamental interest and our goal to take those heavy goods vehicles, too loaded and loaded off the roads, which, if necessary, can cause enormous damage to the road network. It's amazing to read news of insolence sometimes. For example, in Zala County, a 62-ton truck was intercepted recently. You can imagine the damage caused, say, to the road with the worse substructure where it passed. So we can agree with the construction of this system. The only thing that should be put aside is that, where appropriate, there is an alternative option for transport stakeholders, because if we think that in 2012 ROLA was actually executed, and since then it has not been established that this is somehow restored, then it is definitely a major deficiency that we need to point out. However, if we add to the whole story that transit traffic through Hungary is responsible for some 40 percent of the damage caused by the infrastructure mentioned above, I have to say that what has already been done in Switzerland should float before the transport policy, namely, that truck traffic, driving truck traffic to rail should be the first priority of the Hungarian transport policy, because here the 100 billion HUF damage that is created on an annual basis, and obviously not passenger cars, not motorcycles, should be the responsibility of heavy goods vehicles, and indeed the government should be urged to make progress in this matter. Unfortunately, we do not see these, but Hungary's road network would need this enormously. Let me give you another example of my narrower pathology. There's the history of Route 6. You have to see how road 6 has been destroyed by Romanian, Croatian and obviously Hungarian heavy goods vehicles. This route is probably not designed for this type of truck traffic. We should consider why these trucks cannot, for example, be directed between Barcs and - I do - between Pécs to railway wagons and railway trains and thus generate traffic. I mean, if we had to say a numerical amount from the Secretary of State right now, how much it would cost, say, to renovate Route 6, you'd say a huge number. That's one of them. And the other is that this renovation is sometimes heard during the campaign period, it is then thrown in from a pro-government part, but it is a specific date and a reasonable date in relation to it, when this section of the road will be built, renovated, unfortunately the people living there still haven't heard. They are waiting for this, because you may remember that there was a show like this a long time ago that our grandchildren would also see it and it was a television program about architecture. If this is the case here on Route 6, then we can say that our grandchildren will no longer see it, which means that it will be so much ruined by the terrible traffic that they have put into it that there will be nothing left of it in a noble simplicity. That's all I wanted to say. I really wouldn't waste your time. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-05-03-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-05-03-181	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would first of all like to thank the speakers for their partial support. It has been said that, in many cases, the regulation, the amendment that we have just tabled to the Parliament, is forward-looking. I just want to react very briefly. There is no substantial change in advertising signs in this proposal; it also allows the imposition of fines in the case of unlawful boards located outside the territory. Otherwise, there is no change in the regulation of advertising boards in other matters. I'd just like to be more specific about the small trains. The installation permit is still required and no operating licence is required. There was a little twist in Congressman's presentation. Obviously, railway and forest infrastructure does not require safety standards such as a large railway. I think that this type of simplification is clearly justified either in terms of operation or in terms of setting up. They can not be used for professional activity at all, they can go 30-40 kilometers per hour. The requirement that has, in many cases, increased these investments, I think it is more reasonable to reduce them. We hope that many of these 10 billion forints will be able to renew. The design of this is in progress, by the way. The axle weighing station: I think this is a major road development milestone. We're going to set up nearly ninety, eighty-nine such stations. It can be said that on the road sections where tolls are payable, we can achieve approximately full coverage. Obviously, the requirement for axle load to be taken into account by looking at it or by installing mobile axle weighing stations, I think that this control cannot be effectively carried out. So we hope that by implementing and deploying this programme, we will be able to greatly increase the regularity of road transport and the protection of our roads. As far as road development is concerned, I often say that until 2022 we have almost 2500 billion resources for road development. I think that no government has been able to achieve such a great deal of transport development in such a short period of time. With that kind of money, the former socialist-free democrat governments carried out an M6 and an M5 construction from PPP, which costs the same amount until 2037, by the way. That's about 300 kilometers away. By the way, we're renovating our roads. Last year about 70 billion forints and 100 billion forints are available to the Hungarian Road to renovate these roads. Although these numbers weren't part of the presentation, I tried to answer everything. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-05-03-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, István Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post- Agenda address:. What is going on in the South? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2017-05-03-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, My dear fellow Members, there are few left. In recent years, I have spoken several times between the walls of the House on the serious situation and still unresolved problems of the southern Hungarians - [[Dr. Róbert Homolya is leaving the Chamber.]] I regret that the only representative of the government is leaving the House - in spite of improving relations between Serb-Hungarian states, if the situation of the southern Hungarians has deteriorated in recent years. Jobbik, of course, supports the government's southern economic development programme. We have already emphasised this in many places, and I would like to make this clear now, because we consider this to be a right and a good initiative. But one thing is money. We continue to believe that enlargement of the rights of the Hungarian community is possible now and not after EU accession. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and other politicians of Fidesz have repeatedly stated that they do not wish to impose any conditions on Jobbik's position to support Serbia's accession to the EU for the sake of southern Hungary. They are therefore preparing for a similar treason as they did in 2005 with Romania. [[19.40]] And there is much to be done, which is why it is detrimental that in his interview with Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén on 1 January, he said that cultural autonomy was achieved in Vojvodina, and that if there is a success story, then the South region is the one. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said the same thing after the Serbian-Hungarian government meeting in November 2016; according to him, Serbia sees Hungarians living in the country as their heart, and stands out in Europe with its policy to support minorities. Dear Parliament, The truth is that, until today, Serbia, which Viktor Orbán has so much respect for, has obstructed the rehabilitation and compensation of victims of retaliations in 1944-45 in an outrageous way and by administrative means. According to the Prime Minister, Belgrade, who considers the Hungarians of southern Hungary to be his heart, is now taking the refugees of Kosovo, mostly Gypsies, only to the settlements of the southern Hungarian majority. Just as it is not a very cordial step by Serbia, which is supposed to care for its national minorities, so that on the proposal of former President Tomislav Nikolic, the anniversary of the separation of Vojvodina from Hungary in 1918, and more specifically the date of the Serbian National Assembly in Novi Sad, will be a Serbian state holiday. Dear fellow Members, Unfortunately, there is no better situation for the autonomy achieved according to Zsolt Semjén, because it is not the broad and truly exemplary autonomy that the Serbs in Kosovo can boast of. In fact, the Serbian Constitutional Court has recently taken important powers from the Hungarian National Council, which has been designated the depositary of autonomy, while the exact conditions of the legal operation have not yet been clarified. Secondly, Belgrade spends more money on Kosmet Serbs on a daily basis than on the Hungarian National Council all year round. It is no coincidence that the Hungarian-Serbian friendship in reality merely means that Serbia has generously contributed to supporting the Hungarian Federation of Vojvodina, which served him in all uncritically, and its lunar yard, while the amount of VAT due on these subsidies and paid to the Serbian budget is higher than the total amount spent by the Serbian government on its Hungarian-language taxpayers. Why couldn't Belgrade at least make an agreement - I ask the rhetorical question - to use this money or part of it to the southern Hungarians? Because in the meantime modern Hungarian textbooks are missing from Southern Hungary, Hungary's schools are poorly equipped, and because of lack of money and privatization, media houses that have been operating for so long and are important for social preservation have ceased in recent months, such as Radio Subotica. But it is also delayed to realize the teaching of the Serbian language as a foreign language, while it is not possible to apply in Hungarian to the Faculty of Law at the University of Novi Sad. Dear Parliament, Recently, Krisztina Morvai, a better-looking Member of the European Parliament, took a law-abiding tour of the South. It is outrageous and sad that, despite a valid lease agreement for the Zenta forum, the municipality canceled it on the basis of stated reasons, but clearly at VMSZ. So it finally took place at another location, though, with much more interest than expected. The experiences of the Körút confirm the fact that the Serbian state, for example, ensures the use of the mother tongue at the legal level, without Hungarian-language forms or Hungarian-language official officials, this practically does not apply in practice. Krisztina Morvai was personally convinced of this in several places. Ladies and gentlemen, From 2018, the Jobbik government will be friends with Serbia if Belgrade ensures the broad territorial autonomy of the southern Hungarians, and will treat local Hungarians as a nation of state-making, not as a minority to be driven away. We find it unacceptable to allow Serbia into the European Union without any conditions after Fidesz Romania. It is now possible to achieve results, and the Croatians, Bulgarians and Romanians know this, and I ask the representatives of the government, the governing parties, so that you are not a coward. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-05-03-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 7:44 p.m.]]
