u2017-10-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members and dear guests and all those who monitor our work. The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Ikotity will be taking part in this meeting. We start our work with a pre-meeting speech. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the May Other Politics, spoke before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is obvious that everyday life is over, that 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest, 8 hours of serialisation, while a large part of Hungarian society is not faced with this in virtually nothing, since their daily life is not determined by these topics. A lot of people across the country may feel abandoned, as no one deals with their problems and, looking at the legislative plan of the Hungarian Parliament for the autumn session, it seems that those laws will not be brought before the Parliament either. I wanted to talk to you about the history of István Paksi, who, as a Somogyi farmer, has practically used his own land since the change of regime, and then the land began to be privatized by the state, because due to an administrative error, the land registry was not registered at the Land Office. We've been suing for some time now, István Paksi won the lawsuit against the state in the first instance, but the state doesn't want to leave the property, and I wondered what a shame it was that a government calling itself a system changer wanted to take away the rightful gain of the change of regime and compensation from an owner. Little people who can't start lawsuits because they can't pay the court value, and there they are, going against them by the state. I wanted to talk about a farmer who contacted me that the state helped him to give him 20 acres of land for 20 years, and he thought that he could work his active years off because he needed it for the application or the machinery, and then the state sold these lands, and now the new owner wants to raise the rent per hectare to 200,000 forints a year, and the lawsuit has been going on for almost a year, and the power and patience are running out of resources. But the state washes its hands, because he no longer deals with how the neighbors became enemies that he has mixed up in all this. I was approached by an individual, a lady who took out 8 million forints of loans, and is now being evicted from her apartment on account of a debt of 30 million before winter, and paid her repayments for ten years, and before that she made all the savings she had made in the ten years before, but now she's going to be a runner, and Parliament doesn't care about them at such a level that Fidesz-KDNP didn't even come to the meeting that we called. Obviously, it is always a matter of what causes them to be left alone, without the attention of the state, desperately trying to make their struggles with their lives. But what we have just seen is that not only are individuals abandoned, but there are also abandoned settlements, and obviously the problems of these settlements are hardly addressed by anyone. In the 141 smallest settlements, there are no more hundred people in our country, and there are several settlements where the number of souls is less than twenty. It represents a thousandth of all Hungarian settlements. The 35 settlements, which are over 30 thousand inhabitants, have more than four million inhabitants, and the Fidesz-KDNP is campaigning only here, only bringing a tender source; they have abandoned all the other settlements and abandoned them. Here is the village of Őcsény in Tolna County, which has practically gained national recognition for some foreign children camping or resting there, and now practically the mayor tells us that they haven't been able to fill the pediatrician's place for quite some time, and that's one of the biggest problems. The savings company closes, they take away the only cash machine, there's no firewood, and they have winter on their necks, but no one cares about it, because both the Prime Minister and the government are busy with what happens to Soros and Brussels, but what happens to Ench, what happens to people in the countryside, no one seems to care. People abandoned, villages abandoned, countryside abandoned, elderly, alone before winter, and we will see what happens sooner, hunger or frost death will again become more common during winter, because the lack of care is everywhere. Schools without teachers, health care without doctors, old people on their own, and basically Kossuth radio keeps pushing about how good everyone here is and what a good world we live in. And the reason I wanted to raise these questions is because I feel that it is a disgrace to a government that claims to be a civilian or a Democrat. It is a shame to leave people, families, countryside, settlements, and I think that they must fail because they do so; because they could not use two thirds to make people's lives better. And obviously, there's a question of when people want to deal with their fate. They start their last six months, and they still want to relax the wealth management law about what can be taken home, not about how the Hungarian people's lives will be better. Obviously, these are the issues that concern me during the first weeks of the session, why not the subjects that can make people's lives better before Parliament. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-03-2	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Márton Bitay responds to what has been said.
u2017-10-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We seem to be living in a parallel world or seeing the same facts in a completely different way. I've written down some thoughts about what you said, and I'd like to respond to that. First of all, people feel left alone, what the economic situation and the economic environment are like, that you cannot live in the countryside, which you have mentioned here in a row. I would like to make it clear to you that the figures show otherwise: if we look at the state of the Hungarian economy, especially if we compare it to the growth of the European Union, or compare it to the numbers of other Central European Member States, or compare it to 2010, then in every number that is relevant, racially and important, it defines and shows the fundamental structure of the Hungarian economy, in these figures there is progress and progress. I do not dispute what you have said, that it could be much better or could be much more, but if we add up the results that speak for themselves, then we can see that we are going through a very serious development, a very serious development period behind us. He mentioned a lot of things, and it's hard to put them in line, but I'd like to respond to some of the examples he's taken. With regard to the emptiness of the autumn session: the Parliament adopted a lot of laws in this cycle; only a two-thirds, half earth traffic law was passed on the laws of the Ministry of Agriculture in terms of tasks and powers, with which the Hungarian soil was protected either against foreign speculators or against large capital; I can say that a new wildlife management law has been adopted, a new forest management law has been adopted, a new fish management law has been adopted, and there have been a number of restrictions on food safety procedures and official procedures. So I do not feel justified, what you are saying, is that there are few legislative tasks left for the autumn session, and we have structured the tasks in our own purse so that we have instead put the great laws at the beginning of the cycle that we wanted to get through, and the reason for this is that now, in the autumn session, there are no such laws. He mentioned a gentleman who, as you said, did his own land, which the state then auctioned off. I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that this is a case where, based on the real estate register database, 1/1 of the property was owned by the Hungarian State. [[9.10]] The gentleman has a dispute regarding an earlier acquisition of property that has not been proven to this day and has not yet been transferred through the deed. This is the reason why the Hungarian state owns its 100%, 1/1 property by the way, the land of the farmers! It was sold under a program where more than 30,000 farmers could buy from these areas. Of course, if there is a lawsuit here to prove that this gentleman has acquired a previously acquired property claim and that there is anything wrong in the real estate register, appropriate conclusions or appropriate decisions in this regard must be drawn. He also mentioned a borrowing request or the situation of an indebted person who was on the verge of eviction. I do not want to say that this cannot happen in Hungary today, although it would be best not to do so, but I would like to say that this government was not the main cause of this situation. It is not because hundreds of thousands of people took on foreign exchange loans and were in a position to eventually fail to repay them, and it is precisely this government that, by forinting foreign currency loans or by building the most disadvantaged, the worst-cased people, was trying to help them out of this trap. I would also like to mention to you that you have also mentioned the situation of rural hospitals, rural health care or teachers. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that neither the wages of teachers nor the wages of doctors have ever increased to the same extent as in the last four or eight years. But of course, if you ask us whether we are satisfied with this and we think that we have reached the maximum, then I would also say that no, there is a lot to be done here. At the same time, it is impossible to go along with increasing these salaries in proportion to the economy's performance, because it means the way in which wages from loans are increased [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We don't want to step on it in the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-03-4	Thank you, Secretary Bitay. László Varga, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda:, Why do people have to pay more? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It is coming, the heating season is here, and it is worth considering the possibility of reducing the burden on families, as we know that heating season is one of the biggest burdens in the lives of all Hungarian families. The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group has made several suggestions in recent times to reduce these burdens. These proposals are feasible and based on calculations. First of all, we have recently presented a proposal that clearly shows a very serious surplus at Hungarian Natural Gas Dealer Zrt., as the price of gas on the world market is low, has decreased significantly in recent years, and we know that this determines the prices of residential natural gas in the first place. It follows the world market price of oil with a delay of a few months for natural gas, and this would obviously also provide an opportunity to reduce retail charges. More than HUF 50 billion of surplus was created by this company, which is exclusively involved in the distribution of natural gas, in distribution, only last year. What would that offer us? It would provide an opportunity to reduce domestic gas prices by around 32% up to average consumption. This would save an average Hungarian family some 42 thousand forints a year, but the price of natural gas also clearly affects the price of electricity and the price of district heating in Hungary. Only in today's framework would electricity prices be reduced by 10% and district heating prices reduced by 10%. I know that there will be elements in your response that will refer to the reduction of the rent. I would like to say that the most decisive issue on this issue is the issue of world market prices. It is clear that these would provide an opportunity to reduce today. Let's say, in 2005 there was about 50 forints of gas at a 50 forint oil price, while today there was about 100 forints at similar prices, so there is a significant difference. The Gas Dealer Zrt. is winning. on the Hungarian people. There is a need for a reduction and a possibility of a reduction. On the other hand, there are other heating modes in the country, including those that affect the most difficult ones. We have proposed to reduce the tax on residential firewood to 5% many times, and we have talked about it many times. This can be done, and we have been proposing this for more than four years. Moreover, there is an increase of about 20-25 percent in the market for firewood. It's a burden that hits the hardest people in the line. We heard about supply disruptions last year. Forests cannot market firewood in sufficient quantity and quality. This also raises very serious environmental problems. In Borsod, this type of complaint is coming in these days, for months and months and months and months in advance, only traders can accept needs. In addition, it is very regrettable that my speech was also heard this morning about a very serious health threshold overrun in respect of nitric oxide. Besides, year after year in the heating season in the Sajó basin - Miskolc, Sajószentpéter, Kazincbarcika, and many of these settlements - can be reported as very serious health limit overshoots. Development required. I told you that the program "Modern Cities" should be reviewed. With regard to Miskolc, air pollution is also an important issue, building modernisation and heating systems, and boilers need to be modernised substantially. The question of firewood and the modernisation of heating systems should also be supported. Finally, I have to mention a case concerning Miskolc individually, which is the case of geothermal. Before 2010, the socialist city management and its partners launched a geothermal development, which, according to the calculations, could have reduced the cost of residential district heating by more than 40 percent in Miskolc. Obviously, this would have meant a significant reduction in panel dwellings, also for those living in a more difficult line in the first place. They didn't get this award. Compared to today's prices, the price of residential district heating could be reduced by 20 percent in Miskolc [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But today's price regulation doesn't allow that to happen. So when can the district heat charge generated by geothermal heat be reduced in Miskolc? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's my question, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-03-6	Thank you, Congressman Varga. On behalf of the Government, Mr.Bence Rétvári, State Secretary János Fónagy will respond.
u2017-10-03-7	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Allow me to answer the questions you have raised within the time available. Since you represent Miskolc in the first place, allow me to deal with Miskolc first and foremost, forwarding the fact mentioned in your speech, and so you know, but the public opinion of the country should not be harmed to warn and remind that in 2013 this government implemented a reduction in the total household costs of Hungarian families, not only in the area of energy prices, electricity, gas, district heating, but also in respect of all household costs that have borne the monthly budget of Hungarian families. [[9.20]] As a result, the ways and ways of this are known to my fellow Members, and the result is well known, but the final figure is that from 2013 until the end of last year, we were able to save almost HUF 1000 billion for Hungarian households. I believe that this amount in itself is an eloquent proof that this government is: (1) sensitive to the social problems of families, (2) not only compassionate but also acting and reducing it in substance. Everyone can see in their energy accounts what this means for them: the cost of district heating, gas and electricity has become 25 percent cheaper. Allow me to give you a specific answer to a specific question. As is known, district heating regulation was adapted in 2011 and the previous municipal pricing was replaced by central price regulation. In doing so, retail final consumer prices have been frozen. In the framework of the central authority price regulation, we introduced a thermal compensation scheme which replaced the former wasteful electricity aid. We have recorded the charges and tariff structures used in each settlement, including in Miskolc, which are reviewed annually by the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office due to the changing prices. On this basis, it proposes the justified cost-based producer heat prices to be applied between heat producers and district heating service providers, as well as the final consumer prices between consumers and district heating service providers, in Hungarian, the retail prices involved in its question. The specific compensation shall be established in parallel with the Authority's pricing. To add figures: only justified costs are recognised and, in addition to justified costs, the service provider's legitimate and morally permissible benefits. At present, the general principle recognises only 2 percent of the return on capital in the fees by providing support for renewable energy use - and Miskolc in this regard and the geothermal heating plant in Miskolc - but the return is 4.5 percent above the overall 2 percent. By the way, I think that you know that the geothermal heating plant only partially covers the heat needs of the city of Miskolc, and that its favourable production costs are only partly met. The cost of production referred to by the Member is, moreover, higher than 70 per cent of geothermal production. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is not the first time that gas prices are said, but you always refer only to stock market gas prices that move. Obviously, they have a wave. I would also like to emphasise to the public that, when we talk about preserving the results of the reduction of the rent, we are trying to prevent these fluctuations. For example, in Romania, the price of gas is increased at falling stock prices. As far as firewood is concerned, the Ministry of Interior has recently doubled the social firewood frame. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I am convinced that in the 2017 heating season all Hungarian households, all those in need, will receive the demand for firewood mediated by the municipality. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-8	Thank you very much. The limits of my patience are infinite, but the house rules force me to signal. Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-10-03-9	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last few days, I've been looking into the broadcast of an opposition channel, not because I'm a masochist, but because I was wondering if you could tell me something new. And he knew, if not in what to say, but in the way to say it, because a left-wing politician spoke quite openly about the state of the opposition. It wasn't hard to agree with his sentences. And what he specifically said about the power of government, allow me to quote two sentences. This opposition politician said that Fidesz has a very strong power of government. That was a confession. He then added that there was no evidence of government power in the opposition. Indeed, we agree that today there is only one power of government in Hungary, an alliance of governing parties. Not to mention that a new phenomenon has appeared on the opposition side, Mr Werber is here again, and now he is blowing the LMP balloon, but this is not about government power, it is about hate campaign. What does the power of government mean in general? I think there are two elements. One is to have a vision of that political force. Of course, this vision applies not only to the country but also to the region, and it must be based on a healthy and credible image of people and society. But the other element is at least as important, dealing with daily affairs with political wisdom and competence. When we look at the performance of the past period, we see some examples of what government power means. Let's take a look at crisis management first. In 2010, the economic and financial crisis was effectively addressed. There has been an identity crisis and there is also a Western Europe, and it started to appear in Hungary during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. This has been managed by having a healthy view and a sense of identity in Hungary today. Or think about dealing with the debt crisis, partly about foreign exchange loans, and partly about sovereign debt. Here I am making a parenthesis and note that national issues can be addressed even in campaign time, and we know that, in addition to the migrant crisis, this is a demographic crisis. Let me say that we have just carried out a survey on which we will soon report, which may give us an opportunity to see how the desired children are born. We have managed to prevent the crisis in the pension system, when it comes to crises. I have already mentioned that, most importantly, the migration crisis has been effectively addressed so far. Or let us think that the budget has been balanced, which has led to economic development and development in Hungary, because we also see developments in small settlements that have been there for a long time. And what issues still need to be addressed by a political force capable of government, I repeat, even during the campaign period, when everyone is busy making their own promises: we are working hard, and I hope that in the near future we will also present the ease of repayment for the families in debt. At the same time, this will be a kind of renewal of family bankruptcy protection, but we will significantly go beyond that. So once again, let me agree with the left-wing political scientist, Hungary has a power of government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.30]]
u2017-10-03-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2017-10-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, The results of the government's work in recent years show that Hungary is now among the ten safest countries in the world. This includes both the usual indicators of public security in relation to crime and the fact that the terrorist threat, the negative effects on public security caused by the immigration crisis have been avoided in Hungary. This is also due to the southern border closure, legal action, the presence of human strength, the presence of police officers and, of course, the construction of the fence. Fidesz-KDNP's governing capacity is best demonstrated by its ability to make good decisions on issues that were unforeseen. After all, neither in 2010 nor in 2014 did the electorate suspect that Hungary was facing such a challenge, there will be such a turnaround in world politics as the start of mass migration. In this historic situation, when every country had to make a very important decision, Hungary was able to make the right decision. This is why we are among the ten safest countries, and that is why it accepts an ever wider and wider part of the Hungarian position, many Western European countries, which initially were completely opposed to the Hungarian position. Now they take one or two elements of the Hungarian position one by one. If we look at the governing power of the Hungarian Socialist Party, we can see that they are not really present here in Parliament, because their party life is quite disturbed. In fact, they're running away from the party, and their officials are constantly resigning. There are those who sit in another faction, some who resign from the prime ministership, some who resign from the presidency as a sinking ship that everyone is fleeing, and they want to elope when there is a lifeboat. The news about the Socialist Party is about the Socialist Party, not the state of the country, not the most important issue, the issue of immigration, not the other important issues that people are interested in in their everyday lives, but the socialist news is all about places and sharing. While the MSZP is busy with itself, Jobbik is busy with their posters. All he does is go from one poster to another, try to play one or another part of Lajos Simicska's vast media empire with various tricks. The biggest corruption case in Hungary, when a billionaire can buy a party in one piece. The Jobbik are making big promises to the electorate because they think voters can be bought. And you think that because Jobbik could be bought. In fact, one of their representatives has now said that Lajos Simicska has the right to support the party that he likes, the Jobbik likes, so he supports Jobbik. The party that has whipped Lajos Simicska every time for four years here in Parliament, now that he has been eating from Lajos Simicska's palm, has not whipped him, but is raising Lajos Simicska as an example and telling him how good things he is doing. In fact, as we've learned, among themselves, they call Lajos Simicska the Chief. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] This party buy-out case is also the reason why Jobbik has already turned 180 degrees on many issues compared to its previous position. In the quota case, we remember first saying that he was a traitor, who refused to accept the amendment to the Fundamental Law, and then Jobbik didn't accept it. There are few parties who consider themselves a traitor, Jobbik is the first in Hungarian politics. On the other hand, about quotas, Gábor Vona said that when it comes to a few thousand people, okay, you can think about it. We also remember that Jobbik's founding letter states that EU membership is unacceptable for Hungary. They used to say, "Let's be members or free," that's the question. And they openly announced a referendum to get out of the Union, and now they expect Brussels to raise the Hungarian people's salary. We can say that Jobbik is trying to pick up the voting base of MSZP, the increasingly smaller party, step by step, well, with this maneuver Jobbik is moving from the radical extreme right to the left, it has become more gyurny than Gyurcsány, both in terms of attitude to the truth and rhetoric. We see that in the case of KGBéla, too, the party that had previously declared that immunity should be abolished, because that gives birth to political crime, and then Béla Kovács himself hid behind immunity, and the only time that he could be prosecuted, espionage or fiscal fraud was when his immunity was suspended. So the party that said that the hotbed of political crime is immunity, its representatives are hiding behind immunity. It also shows that there are three parties, one is controlled by George Soros, the other by Lajos Simicska, and the third by Ron Werber. Hungarian people are represented by Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-03-12	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Zsolt Egyed from Jobbik's Group came forward to speak before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The 4th of October is the anniversary of the death of Saint Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of animals. They say that the dog is man's best friend, but if we consider the current Hungarian relations, I have to say that if the poor dogs have such a friend, then they no longer need an enemy. Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, that's life. After the previous fideszes-KDNP renegade, we're on a subject where you guys have failed badly, you've done nothing. They could have, but unfortunately, they ignored that. I suspect that because there is no real money in this, there is no way to withdraw money from it, that must include money in order to establish a normal, cultured animal farming in Hungary. It can now be said that the voice of those animal protection organizations and the millions of animal-loving, animal-loving people in the Hungarian Parliament has not been heard by anyone else except Jobbik Hungary Movement. It's also clear that you don't care a bit about that. I would like to recall the multitude of legislative proposals that I have presented to this House and which would have improved the status of animal rights and animal protection, but you, for example, have cynically rejected the Committee on Agriculture, accompanied by a form of speech that all normal people consider to be outrageous. Ladies and gentlemen, You said so, and my fellow Member Harrach just said that there is a power of government in Hungary. I'd argue with that. Because that may be your opinion from this Parliament, but if you go out with people or in the countryside, people have a completely different opinion about it. Because what happened to the left, I think, doesn't have to be discussed here, but what you've been doing for the last seven years is obvious to everyone. Returning to animal welfare organisations: you are very supportive of him, very supportive of him, only when action comes, everyone turns their backs on them. It has to be said, and it's safe to say that it's not really a question of money, it's a matter of will. Because the price of a stadium, a helicopter ride, a small train could solve this problem in Hungary. You just don't want it because you don't care. It must also be stated that it can also be said calmly that if there were normal training in education, we would not be here in Hungary. For if someone is monitoring the evening news of televisions, animal torture cases are on a daily basis, and virtually no one who is decision-making and who can take action against them takes them into account. I also submitted a bill that you also turned your back on to allocate HUF 1 billion from the budget to neutered all the captured, orphaned animals, as this would be the alpha and the omega of the whole problem. This could solve the whole shameful situation that is currently in Hungary. Of course, you didn't support this either. And now, I could give you point-by-point questions about animal protection that you cynically didn't support, and even, in the case of a bad joke, you hit it with. But don't doubt that the people, the animalist and animal-loving people will also go to vote next year, and they will judge you. I can also tell you here that you still have six months to live. But if you get to the Jobbik government next year, you will solve these problems right away, because I have to say again, this is not really a matter of money, it is a matter of will, good intentions and humanity, which is also to be said that you are unfortunately lacking in it. I will also initiate in this parliamentary session that the veterinary costs of all animals who have been admitted to shelters, which will cover their vaccination, spaying, chirping, will be covered by the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, because it is the sin of the governments of the past decades that such a situation has arisen in Hungary. You don't want to charge those citizens who take money from their families to help these poor animals. Technically, these people are doing a public service job with their own money. You make fun of these people, you turn your back on them, but believe me, these people will judge you next year, and they will give their opinion in a vote. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.40]]
u2017-10-03-14	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will respond.
u2017-10-03-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Everyone in this country already knows that Jobbik is willing to do anything for money and power, but I am asking you not to make a party policy about animal protection, because it's bad for people who do their sacrifices every day in the field of animal protection. Dear Parliament, I think it is important to point out that the problems in the field of animal protection are much more complex than the only way to remedy them is by amending legislation. Accordingly, the government's aim is to use all means at its disposal to promote responsible livestock farming as widely as possible and to improve animal welfare. In recent years, we have made a lot of effort to do this, including in previous years we have launched the "Free Farm" programme, which is based on the concept that the problem of orphan dogs is common to all of us, we call to the attention of future farmers to think about adoption instead of buying, and to provide their pets with neutered. In addition, we have produced a number of awareness-forming, responsible animal breeding publications to promote animal protection. Just this Thursday, we presented and handed to the police the publication that we prepared together with the Home Foundation. This publication, Dog Duty, draws attention to the rules of dog farming and the practical implementation of responsible animal farming. In addition to the police, all notaries will receive this publication, NGOs can access it, and all interested parties can download it from the Nébih website. In addition, we would like to send another brochure to as many kindergarteners and schoolchildren as possible in order to start thinking in childhood. Also in previous years, we launched the initiative of the programme for breeding dogs at shelter, as the only reliable means of keeping stray dog populations in bed and preventing unwanted reproductions is the neutering of animals. During the unsuccessful spaying program, thousands of dogs living in animal shelters were spayed through an agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Food Chain Safety Office and the University of Veterinary Medicine. We would also like to continue this programme this year. It is also a requirement to raise awareness of the responsibility of livestock owners that in Hungary, in order to prevent EU legislation, the animal welfare officer should be employed in large numbers of livestock farms. So far, at the free animal welfare training held by Nebih, 4,900 people have obtained such a certificate; we also say no to hormone treatment and say no to cloning. We pay particular attention to one of today's most urgent animal protection problems, including the high number of stray dogs. In order to reduce this, a number of measures have been taken in recent years, one of which is the introduction of mandatory individual marking and registration of dogs over four months of age. As a result, the number of stray dogs is constantly and significantly decreasing: while five years ago 30,000 stray dogs arrived in the country at about a hundred puppies, this number was reduced to less than 20,000 by 2015. In addition, it is welcome that the number of dogs released from the dogry colonies increased significantly by about 20 percent: from 55 percent to 77 percent. This year, HUF 40 million has increased the resources available for animal protection tasks, which will be used to modernise animal shelters and dog control facilities, as well as Nébih's approach-forming work on responsible animal farming, thirdly, as I mentioned earlier, to support the neutering of dogs at shelters, and this appropriation will increase by one third in next year's budget. In addition to the allocation of animal protection aid, animal welfare aid for improving living conditions for the largest number of farm animals is certainly worth mentioning. These amounts were HUF 28.7 billion in 2015 and HUF 29.7 billion in 2016. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I can assure you all that the government will continue to strengthen responsible livestock farming by all means at its disposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Richárd Hörcsik also applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Fidesz Group with the title of the Parliamentary Cooperation of the Visegráds in a new impetus. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In July 2017, Hungary took over the Presidency of the Visegrád countries from Poland, and we will serve this officer for a year. The opening event of the parliamentary dimension of the Hungarian V4 Presidency and the meeting of committees on European affairs took place just a week ago in Sárospatak, where we discussed initiatives concerning the future and security of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, The V4 has now become a good brand name in the EU, and the meeting in Sárospatak has also confirmed in the members that this cooperation is of great importance, especially today, in the current state of the Union. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the meeting was honored by his presence by Speaker László Kövér. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the European Union is the equality of the Member States, but we increasingly see that this is not how it works in practice; therefore, our natural allies are the EU Member States with which we are bound by common history and shared interests as well as shared values. I think it is self-evident that this cooperation, this cooperation, is violating certain other interests, the interests of those who wish to decide the future of Europe without being heard by the Member States, along their own visions. In fact, cooperation in Visegrád is nothing more than the realization that we Central Europeans can also have special interests that go against the interests of other Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, It is time to make clear what is really in the common interest of the European Union. This must not be the case for us Visegraders to follow Paris, Berlin or Brussels in a slavish manner, but for us to make it clear what we think is right and what is appropriate for Europe. Undoubtedly, this is less good news for those who want to make these decisions without European citizens. It seems, fellow Members, that it is not clear to everyone in Europe that dog bites cannot be cured by dog bites. One of the items on the agenda of the Sárospatak meeting was the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU, the Brexit, one of the root causes of which was the EU policy, which is now trying to minimize cooperation in Visegrád. Brexit is a process that has not been done in the EU, so I believe that we have a common task: to achieve half a Brexit, for example, we must stand together to ensure that the rights of citizens of the V4 working in the United Kingdom are not undermined. Ladies and gentlemen, Another important item on the agenda was the role of national parliaments in the Union. Based on the experience of recent years, communication between Visegrád Parliaments is a kind of positive step forward, which does draw attention to draft EU legislation which would take away another slice of our sovereignty. That is why Mr Speaker's proposal to set up rapid response groups in relation to so-called yellow-leaf procedures has been recognised, given the legislative mass prepared for adoption by the EU. These so-called rapid response brigades would be created within the framework of national parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the early monitoring of draft legislative acts and the timely warning of Visegrad Parliaments are capable of somewhat blocking the stealthy legislation of the European Commission. [[9.50]] Dear House, At the meeting in Sárospatak, I believe that the partners have confirmed that we are on the right track when we strengthen cooperation in Visegrád. I am convinced that the Parliamentary cooperation of the V4 with the Hungarian Presidency has been renewed. Hungary's national interest dictates that we further strengthen this partnership. There will be a great need for this during the autumn European political battle. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-03-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Levente Magyar will respond to what has been said.
u2017-10-03-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your words, because one of the most important objectives of the Hungarian Visegrád Presidency, which was launched in July, is to give Visegrád cooperation more visibility and greater social visibility. This is the objective of any discussion that is taking place here in Parliament about the future, the present, the main challenges ahead and the answers to these challenges. Honourable Congressman, Hungary and the Hungarian government are convinced that close cooperation in Visegrád is an imperialist for Hungary. The success of Central Europe, the strength of Central Europe is a prerequisite for Hungary's success and strength, and vice versa: if Hungary is successful, strong and on its own feet, this can also contribute to the success of Central Europe as a whole. Honourable Congressman, When we talk about the content of the cooperation of the Visegrád Four, what form we want to give, we can rely on two very important foundations here. One is that we stand on the basis of a common set of values, on the basis of a common set of values that has been more manifest in recent years than ever before, in a more visible way than ever before, particularly in the fact that these four countries have fought together, united in order to combat processes which are fundamentally damaging to Europe's identity, the security and survival of the European Union's community, more effectively than any other EU Member State. There are other important elements of this common identity, common values, such as the fact that these four countries are determined and convinced that the preservation of national identity and its religion are, in all circumstances, a value that we should strive for, even in relation to the currents of political age. After all, this can keep us in the long run, keeping us what we are and what we want to be in the future. Honourable Congressman, The other fundamental point that I would like to make when we talk about the conditions for success of the Visegrád Four is that we can look into the future with confidence, not only individually, but also as a Visegrad Group, which is not the case today for Europe, perhaps for any other grouping or Member State of the European Union. This self-confidence comes primarily from the fact that all four countries, in recent years and at present, have a level of economic expansion, both in terms of intensity, i.e. in terms of value added, GDP growth and their regional weight, i.e. geographically, which is unique today in Europe, and I daresay that Europe has become one of the most important components of growth and economic strengthening and maintaining its competitiveness. Obviously, this can fill us with confidence. This year, 2017 the combined growth of Visegrád countries will certainly be closer to 4 percent than 3 and no one else in Europe will be able to say that about you. In particular, this is a remarkable fact, given that today the Visegrád Four trade with Germany is significantly higher than Germany's trade with France. So a 4% increase in such a strong economic area is now a remarkable phenomenon at world market level. Self-confidence can also be increased by the fact, honourable Member, that, in addition to the Visegrád Four's increasing and more visible role in the formulation of Europe's policy, it is now an increasingly important group on the international stage, because in recent months alone, there have been several highest levels of consultation which I believe these countries would not have been able to deliver, at least as well as jointly. Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your activities in the Visegrád parliamentary dimension. Launching and strengthening the Visegrád parliamentary dimension was one of the priorities of the former Hungarian Presidency. Every event, every resolution that strengthens this dimension, I think will help the Visegrád Four to feel not only political but also the governments, but also the people. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-03-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee adopted a general resolution yesterday. I ask Mr István Tiba to explain to the committee from 10/2014-2018. Resolution IUB. Mr. Messenger!
u2017-10-03-21	At the request of the Group of the LMP, the Justice Committee, as the committee responsible for the interpretation of house rules, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Act 61. The following general resolution shall be adopted pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 4. Illustrated in the Parliamentary Act 38/A. § (1) shall not apply. Exceptionally, to the extent necessary to express the speaker's position, the House Committee or the Parliamentary Committee may authorise an illustration by means of a physical, visual or audio medium. The illustration can therefore be used in particular if it is not possible to understand the position of the speaker without the use of a tangible, visual or audio medium. However, the illustration so authorized may not prejudice the authority of Parliament or any person, group, and in particular any national, ethnic, racial or religious community. When determining the framework for the illustration, each case should be examined and judged in its own individuality, taking into account all the circumstances of the case. In the Committee's view, the historical history and international practice of the explanatory memorandum could provide guidance.
u2017-10-03-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. It follows the T/17298 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17298 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 160 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. [[10.00]] It follows the T/17299 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17299 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/17303 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Italian Republic on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17303 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows from the publication of a list of amendments to the Convention between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Estonia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation signed in Budapest on 11 September 2002 in the field of income and property taxes. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17300 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows from the publication of the Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17304. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following the publication of the Protocol between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the reciprocal settlement of the legal situation of diplomatic property, T/17301. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17301. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following the publication of the T/17302 Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/17302/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17302. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 163 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Maryland on cooperation in the field of higher education will be published. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1730 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 148 votes to 15, with no abstention. It follows from the publication of the T/17306 Protocol amending the Agreement on Air Transport between Canada and the European Community and its Member States to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/1730/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17306 accepts it. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows from the publication of the Strasbourg Convention on the limitation of liability in inland waterway transport, T/17308. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/17308/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17308. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 158 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. [[10.10]] It follows from the publication of the Protocol amending the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Government of the State of Israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17309. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following is the T/15866 on the amendments to the law necessary for the integration of the National Pension Insurance Directorate into the Hungarian Treasury. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15866/5. T/15866/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15866/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes to 44, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15866/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes in favour, 51 against and 1 abstention. The 2011 CXCIX on public service officials follows. T/15592 on the amendment of law and other related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/15592/9. T/15992/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments No 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Nándor Gúr. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Nándor Gúr. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 112 against and 23 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15992/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 22 against and 30 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/155992/12. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes to 23, with 29 abstentions. It follows a series of 67/1990 concerning the departments of the Republic of Hungary, the name and seat of the counties. H/1726 on the amendment of the parliamentary decision Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/17226/6. H/17226/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/17226/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 140 votes in favour, no votes against, with 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/17226/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes in favour, no votes against, with 22 abstentions. Next, the 1990 XCIII on levies. Act T/17315, amending Act X of 2006 on cooperatives Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1731/15/7. T/17315/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/173157. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes in favour, 18 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/17315/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes in favour, 17 against and 5 abstentions. [[10.20]] Next up is the 1991 XLI on notaries. Act T/16818 on the amendment of law and certain laws on the subject of justice Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the T/1681. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 120 votes in favour, 19 against and 25 abstentions. It follows that the rules applicable in court civil non-court proceedings and certain non-court proceedings T/17166 are to be followed. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17166 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 117 votes in favour, no votes against and 46 abstentions. It follows that T/17307, which amends the rules on the protection of patterns of use, will be adopted. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/17307 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 140 votes in favour, no votes against, with 23 abstentions. We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the 2010 CIV on the press and basic rules of media content will be included in the series of articles. T/16862. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 52 votes in favour, 108 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the Chamber. Noise.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, allow us to continue the plenary session; take your seats or step out into the corridor. [[Noise. It's ringing.]] With respect again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to allow us to continue the plenary session; come out to the corridor or take their seats. I would also ask the right-wing Members to take their seats, including the Fidesz Members, to take their seats or to come out into the corridor. [[It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending certain laws for the employment of beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits through a pensioner's cooperative in the public interest will follow. Presentation by Members of the Bencsik János, Lajos Kósa and Zsolt Nyitrai Fidesz T/17558. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-03-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The pensioner cooperative in the public interest creates the possibility for older people who are still active in the labour market to pass on their skills, acquired work experience to the younger age group within a cooperative framework, and to earn income through their work. With the ageing of Hungarian society, the proportion of elderly people in society is increasing. The non-negligible part of pensioners can be considered active while maintaining a pension and would like to supplement their pension income by working. In OECD Member States, the average number of workers in the age group 60-64 is 47,6 per cent, i.e. close to 50 per cent. This ratio is only 25.4 percent in Hungary. It is clear from the data that the employment of older people in Hungary is in no way considered to be high, so there are considerable reserves in the employment of older people and those already receiving pensions. The expansion of the Hungarian economy has also brought about an increase in the number of jobs. Since 2010, 700,000 more people have been working in the country, and since Hungary's social composition is ageing, it is important that the legislation provides attractive working conditions for older people who are still active. [[10.30]] This objective was promoted by the Law on pensioners' cooperatives of general interest, which entered into force on 1 July 2017. Under the legislation, the member of the pensioner cooperative enters into a membership agreement with the cooperative covering the specific content, manner and remuneration of the personal contribution. The member may also make his/her personal contribution within the framework of a service provided by the pensioner's cooperative to a third party. It is important that 90 percent of the members of the cooperative should receive an old-age pension. The Act establishes a minimum financial obligation for cooperative members. The income paid in cash to the old-age pensioner shall be considered as income from non-autonomous activity, for which 15 per cent of personal income tax is payable. The member shall not be liable to pay a pension or health contribution. The legal relationship between a pensioner's cooperative and an old-age pensioner's member shall not constitute a legal relationship which results in a tax liability or does not result in a social contribution obligation between a member of a pensioner's cooperative of general interest and a member of a natural person receiving an old-age pension. Dear Parliament, However, according to the law in force, no person receiving pre-age benefits is considered to be an old-age pensioner, including thousands of domestic communities of those receiving temporary mining benefits. It is well known that workers who once worked in a underground mine who acquired 25 years of service or who completed 5000 underground shifts receive early early care, i.e. temporary mining benefits. The re-integration into the legal labour market of thousands of potential employees between the ages of 45 and 63, most of which are qualified, is also considered to be an economic interest. The largest number of beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits live in the industrially developed regions, where the greatest shortage of workers is now present. Our present bill aims to extend the preferential employment opportunities provided by the law on pensioners' cooperatives of general interest to beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits. Citizens who have spent at least 25 years working underground or have completed an equivalent shift shall receive a temporary mining allowance. Citizens under the age of retirement age receiving a temporary mining allowance in our country represent a reliable, highly experienced reserve of labour for the national economy in the order of thousands. The bill complements the cooperative law governing pensioners' cooperatives of general interest and the related sectoral laws with beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits, thus creating the possibility for them to benefit from preferential employment. For the debate and adoption of the draft, I wish you good luck on behalf of my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-03-24	Thank you very much, Congressman János Bencsik. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government now or later. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Later.]] Later. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President Tamás Sneider wishes to speak during today's general debate. In the event of opposition by the representatives of the Vice-President, the sitting may be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that Vice-President Tamás Sneider will be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has unanimously accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-03-25	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. I must say that the House is discussing this proposal in a very good rhythm, because last Sunday, on 1 October, it was World Older People's Day, and yesterday we talked about it in the walls of this House. We have more than 2 million pensioners and elderly countrymen in our country. We owe them respect and gratitude. If this proposal is already on the agenda, I think it is worth talking about, considering and reviewing what we have done together over the past period, let us say since 2010, with regard to older people. In 2010, Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association and KDNP formed an alliance with pensioners. We said that whatever happens inside or outside the country, we will preserve the purchasing value of pensions under all circumstances, because the world is going in the right direction if a pensioner can put not less of the same amount, but more products and goods into his basket. We have managed to keep this up so far, and I believe that we will continue to do so in the future. In recent years, over the last seven years, a series of decisions have been made that have a positive impact on the daily lives of our elderly countrymen, pensioners. It is enough to think only of the reduction of the rent; the reduction of energy prices to a Hungarian pensioner means an average annual saving of HUF 100,000, which was paid to the service providers in the form of invoices before the reduction of the rent. You can use this to yourself or to help your children and grandchildren. But it is equally important to make a positive decision for pensioners, to reduce the VAT on the most important food from 27 percent to 5 percent; poultry, milk, pork and then fish will rise to this line. [[Dr. László Szakács: Will the draft law be discussed in the future?]] In recent years, the price of more than a thousand medicines has dropped significantly, of which 80 have dropped to 50 percent, i.e. more than half. Obviously, many medicines can be used by pensioners as appropriate. In seven years there has been a 23 percent increase in pensions, and the next year's budget adopted by our fellow Members, the 2018 budget, already includes the institution of the pension premium, which represents HUF 32 billion, and the basic philosophy of which is that if, thanks to our joint efforts, the country performs better, the Hungarian economy will perform better, then why not be the winners of the pensioners. If economic growth is above 3.5 percent, otherwise there is a good chance and a good hope, then this pension premium will be available to our retired countrymen. And it is also the basic philosophy of pensioners' cooperatives that the Parliament decided in the summer that, like school cooperatives and student associations, pensioners who feel power, energy, and desire to work, to form pensioners' cooperatives and thus obtain additional resources and financial income. I stress that this work is obviously an opportunity, a voluntary thing; anyone who feels the desire and the energy can set up or enter such a retirement organisation. I think, moreover, this is a good example of intergenerational cooperation and cooperation, because these pensioners have the human and professional experience of a life that they can pass on to younger people. It can now be said that in almost all counties these pensioners' organisations have been established, at least one pensioner's cooperative is already in each county, so it has become national coverage, but I think we need to promote this opportunity together. I ask all my fellow Members to promote and promote the possibility of pensioners' cooperatives, as this is a good opportunity for everyone. Retirementes can work, they're in company. [[10.40]] They can give their fees to grandchildren and children in a very favourable regulatory environment, as it is important to stress that there is only a 15 per cent obligation to pay a salary in this case, and there is no other obligation to pay a contribution to the pensioner. And what we have today is a concrete proposal, and it is actually a good example that if we do not pay attention to something, say, to the creation of the fundamental rights rule, but it comes to the surface, for example, during a consultation - as my fellow Member János Bencsik was approached by the miners concerned - then we are not wrong to correct the legislation that we have adopted together and, for example, we have not thought of them for some mysterious reason, even though there are thousands of them, and they obviously deserve the opportunity to work in a pensioner's cooperative in the coming period. So on behalf of the Fidesz faction, I can say that we support this proposal, and I ask all my fellow Members and factions to support this proposal; let us help the thousands of people who are affected by this issue, and let us allow them to participate and work in retirement cooperatives with their pensions and benefits. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-26	Thank you, Congressman Nitrai. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who has listened only superficially to the speeches and this debate this morning may think that the Parliament will be debating a proposal that provokes not too much anger here. I must tell you honestly that we, too, thought here with my fellow Member, László Szakács, that, in addition to telling him why we do not support this proposal, we too are trying to be calm and reasonable in this debate. But I must tell you honestly that after the argument made by the author, János Bencsik and now, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, Zsolt Nyitrai, it is difficult for man to rule his temper. All I would like to say about the pensioners' cooperatives themselves and the whole system is that, of course, we have not supported the original proposal, the amendments in this regard, and we will not support this amendment. We are doing this for a reason, for there have been many voices against it. For example, the Vice President of the Hungarian Trade Union Association, Tamás Székely, issued a statement when this was first mentioned in public life. He made it very clear that this option would in fact simply push the least retired, most vulnerable pensioners into the labour market out of compulsion, because there is no other way for them to obtain adequate income. Obviously, there is only one way to do this: to pay people a decent pension. We have repeatedly proposed the correction of pensions, in particular the low pensions, and the increase in the old-age pension minimum. There's been a lot of rejections over the last few years. The old-age pension minimum remains 28 500 HUF, and in the last eight years it has not been possible to raise it by one forint, and the biggest sufferers of your policy are small pensioners. Now, the lead speaker of Fidesz speaks of the basic food VAT, which has been reduced to 5 percent in some respects, which has been proposed for five years, since it is included in the budget, an important action against VAT fraud, and for the smallest earners, the low-income low-income pensioners, it would be a huge help if all basic food VAT was reduced to 5 percent. We put the proposal on the table, it was rejected several times. So much for the background, so much for pensioners' cooperatives, this argument has been said many times, not the solution to dealing with the income situation of small pensioners, that they are simply forced to be pushed back into the labour market. However, since this specific amendment concerns the possibility for beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits to play a role in such pensioners' cooperatives, I cannot go along with the fact that representatives of Fidesz who understand or hope to understand the problem, which means that in relation to those who had previously received mining pensions, you have taken away their pension from them, along with their many entitlements, and actually taxed this benefit as a mining pension. This is infinitely humiliating for these people. My fellow Member Bencsik has also said the basic conditions here: 25 years of deep-grazing or 5,000 shifts. We are talking about former workers, perhaps the least of whom will reach the retirement age, unfortunately. So it's a responsible job at the bottom that has significant health damage. Anyone who moves in such settlements or walks in mining circles - it was recently mining day, beginning of September - knows this. Anyone who talks to these people knows that. So very few of them are worth the retirement age, and today, too, the rapporteur, János Bencsik, said that we are talking about a few thousand people who benefit from it - 4-5 thousand at the moment could be roughly their number. I don't think that's the kind of proposal that needs to be brought in to settle their situation. I think that if they could speak here in Parliament today, they would ask for this presentation. I think that the Parliament, if there is a source, if there is a possibility, could do one thing for them today: apologize to them, the MPs of the government apologize one by one to these people from whom they have taken their miner's pension and immediately reinstate them to their acquired rights. This would be the only solution, so I will say more than vote 'no': withdraw this proposal and immediately reinstate mining pensions for these people. Thank you for listening.
u2017-10-03-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-03-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Let me say in advance that the bill, if with a heavy heart and understanding the socialist position, will be supported by Jobbik, given that it is a minor wrong solution, but at the same time I must fully agree with the ideas before me, because you have converted a pension contribution, a pension into social benefits. I don't want to go into political pockets for a long time now either, perhaps not the item on the agenda today will be one of those times, but if my fellow Member Zsolt Nyitrai can say positives, we can list the same or probably much more negatives about the fact that in the last seven or ten years, since you didn't start cutting the pension system, but obviously this happened during the last two or three years of the Socialist Party, so much more negative things have been happening to the pension society, from the disappearance of private pension fund assets through a lot of legislation that I wouldn't want to list now, because we did this yesterday in Parliament's walls. I'd rather go to the bill specifically, what's wrong with it, what's wrong with the basic bill, which we didn't support, I have to add, because we don't think it's right. This could be achieved in a much better design, but at the moment for those who are included in these pensioners' cooperatives, there are many disadvantages that will cause very serious problems in the coming period. One of these, which I have said so many times - and here, at this point, at this amendment, it is particularly important to stress, and perhaps you will hear and change this - is that each member is obliged to participate in such a pensioner's cooperative to the same extent, and that the duty also means that any damage is done by any employee of such a pensioner's cooperative, they are jointly and severally responsible for this damage. [[10.50]] Obviously, if we think of just one shopkeeper, and say, one of the shopkeepers who is a member of a pensioner-cooperative, runs out a hundred forints and there are so many shortages, and there are 200 more members of this pensioner-cooperative, they will be able to add up this damage if necessary. But we're talking miners, we're talking about a dangerous plant, please. What happens when, do not give, God, a mining disaster occurs because of the fault of a person or persons? Then the company will not pay, because there is actually no company, but there is a cooperative of which each member is jointly and severally responsible - that is exactly what is in the law - for each injury or accident. Obviously, we do not want such a situation to arise, but I would like to say in a low voice that, at the moment, it is mostly mining cultures and recultivations that are taking place in Hungary, which is also a dangerous plant, nothing more dangerous than traditional mining itself. What happens if a mining accident happens there? Will everyone pay the millions, maybe billions, together? This is one of the biggest problems, and that is why I am protecting him, I must add, the members who will enter such a mining pensioner's cooperative to look carefully at the points in the contract, because if - although I am not a lawyer, I have to add - the general guidelines will apply to him, then it is quite clear that the work of their entire lives can be on him, and even the house in which they are living if there is litigation. This is one of the biggest problems with the basic law, and it should be emphasised here that this very serious issue is finally raised in relation to such a dangerous plant. The other thing that concerns everyone, however, is that each person who becomes a member of a pensioner-cooperative, who is not entitled to another pensioner year, can count on the years that he will work as a member of a cooperative. Why is that one of the biggest problems in general? Because it may be that when after an incredibly low pension - we know what an unfortunate situation about one third of the pensioner society is, but about two thirds of the pensioner society is in a similar situation - so if you go to work after a very low pension, because at 64 years of age, thank God, you can do it, work until the age of 70 - take such a small career as an example - then he can really complement your earnings and may be able to live relatively acceptablely; if you are healthy, let us add it because it is a very important thing. But at the age of 70, when he gets out of the labour market again, or at the age of a few years, when he can no longer work, because he really will no longer have the opportunity, the original situation will be restored, the original situation, which means a pension of HUF 60,000 at the moment, because after a salary of HUF 80,000, which is one third of the Hungarian society today, he will receive a pension of HUF 60,000 and one third of the pensioners, and I would ask you nicely, just when it would be necessary for an elderly person to have more, even better opportunities for an older person, because at this point there are usually more health problems, many difficulties that come, not to mention that if someone wants to be in an elderly home, he will not be able to make it under 100 thousand, and he will obviously not be able to take advantage of this opportunity. So what I am also very firmly... - and obviously a Jobbik government will do this and thoroughly transform this bill, if it can be smacked in such a way that it can really function normally and well and give real security to the elderly, then it is quite clear that at least one thing should be given so that the years and the amounts that they earn in the cooperative can be counted into retirement. I have to add that normally, if you don't join a cooperative member, you get this opportunity. That is why this story is a huge problem, since from now on it makes perfect sense that all workers will choose it. He will not choose the original thing to hire a pensioner, I will have to pay a few things less under the current law, but he will apply this method, because it is much, much cheaper for him, practically a fraction of the salary of the pensioner. In Hungarian, we forced the very, very large mass of pensioners in Hungary into a system, a construction that is worse than in the previous system, or general guidelines, which otherwise apply to the employment of pensioners These are very important criteria, there are a lot to list, and I'm obviously not going to say all of them now, but let me give you a little macroeconomic indication of the problem with the current law on pensioners' cooperatives, which we have already said, but it doesn't hurt to say it again because while they're on the government, maybe they'll find a solution or improve the situation. This is clearly the fact that, if, if, where appropriate, older people are re-entered into the world of work in the order of up to a hundred thousand, there is certainly a macroeconomic aspect of the fact that wages, the current very low wages, and perhaps even the lowest wages in Eastern Europe, are placed under further pressure, even lower wages can be created in Hungary, or a process that will certainly not increase wages in general in Hungary. If wages will not increase in general in Hungary, then it is perfectly logical that the 600 thousand people who are staying outside will probably increase even more, these middle-aged and young people - although they are already old - will not expand the Hungarian state register, and this will cause us a huge loss at macroeconomic level. And here I note quietly that Viktor Orbán himself says how good it is to have a thousand billion forints sent home by Hungarians emigrated to Western Europe. I would like to put it in the wrong place, but he doesn't put it aside that, yes, but we will fall from HUF 3000 billion thanks to the fact that this 600 thousand people, only on average, do not work here in Hungary, they don't pay us any taxes, they don't pay us any taxes, they don't pay anything in the state register. Yes, out of the fall of HUF 3 000 billion, the state will recover a thousand billion in total, or not the state, but the inhabitants of Hungary, but we will still be reduced by HUF 2000 billion. And I am speaking quietly about the fact that, by the way, at least 6,000 billion forints are being used in Western Europe. And when we analyze our downfall - there are one or two economic experts - it is worth thinking sometimes that if the 600 thousand Hungarians produce 6,000 billion there, but here our income is definitely reduced by 2,000 billion a year, that is minus 8000 billion, with which Western Europe is always ahead of us and what is at a disadvantage, but catching up will never, to say the least, happen in Hungary. So I think, like what has been said above, that the elderly do not deserve this, as they have just submitted, or deserve to be decent, honest and indeed fully draft laws for their interests. And the most important goal is, indeed, that we are raising the average pensions in Hungary as quickly as possible, as we have already said yesterday, with a fair differentiated pension increase, from which we cannot make a living in Hungary, causing a catastrophic situation. And if you really want to do something for the retirement society, you have to think about it very, very quickly, because, thanks to the enormous number of people who have had minimum wages in recent years, there have been millions of our countrymen employed at minimum wage, and many have been unemployed for several years, and as a result, in these years, people who are entitled to an extremely low pension will retire, and this will cause enormous social tension in the coming periods. In view of all this, with a sore heart, I must add that we are not going to oppose such an amendment, because we are rejecting the basic law itself and we intend to fix it. It is quite clear that when we have the opportunity to do this, we will transform the whole thing, if it can be transformed at all, of course. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.00]]
u2017-10-03-30	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr Vice President. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2017-10-03-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In light of what has been said, it is very difficult to debate this calmly. János Bencsik's speech showed so much that the intention exists, the problem is new. We don't have the experience in the Mecs that we already have in Borsod. This problem is new to you. My fellow Member from Nyitra, of course, had gross mistakes in the seniors' daily toast as a keynote speech, because he talked about everything from VAT reduction to VAT reduction. I'd only respond in one sentence, of course, to a reduction in the VAT on wild meat. Why didn't the VAT on bread get reduced? With us, pensioners buy bread, not wild meat, mostly. I think that would be more helpful. But back to the professional proposal, I can see that to the author, as I said earlier, this is a new problem. It's not a new problem for us. And, my honourable fellow Member, I must say that there is absolutely no control over the petitioner and the Fidesz fraction supporting this, in order to do anything to help the grant miners. Ladies and gentlemen, This is business, business for those who create these cooperatives. You're even bringing the grant miners, the retired miners, into these cooperatives. If you wanted pensioners to be able to work, you'd just have to relax on a few pieces of legislation. If you wanted the grantees to be able to work normally, you would have to remove the upper limit of how much work a person can do in addition to annuity. Today, you can employ someone in six hours, and a miner can earn up to three times the minimum old-age pension. You have to relax on this, and then you can employ these people. You have a new problem, my fellow Member, and you say that there is a shortage of workers in these old industrialised areas. We have an old problem, the mine closed on 1 January 2001, and I can tell you that we have a labour market shortage problem. In a town of 20,000, what's left of Komlo, there are 1,100 public workers. This does not mean that there is a shortage of labour markets. I think it's a very big problem, which you're not going to solve again, which you just put on the table here. If you really want to help the grant miners, then please, and even I demand that you return your licenses you took back in 2012. Give them their rights back. Parliament held a meeting on 22 December 2012. You took your licenses at 2:00 a.m. and your discounts to the miners that were granted by Government Decree 23/91. Since then, these rules I've been talking about have been applied to a retired miner, an annuity miner, for six hours. Since then, there has been a rule that you can spend up to three times the minimum amount of your pension or earn as much as your allowance or pension. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) You also did not think that, in addition to your pension, Members here would be able to collect their fees, even though that is more than an old-age pension. But the ministers, as well as the secretary of state, are also taking on their pensions and their fees. [[Dr. János Fónagy: No.]] You can put it on. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: You can pick it up, but you don't.]] The miners can only be paid up to three times the minimum pension. I think it's a very inflexible system. I'll give you an example, and you came to me today. There was an income miner reported in six hours. He also drew your employer's attention to the fact that he can only be declared within six hours, and that his salary has an upper limit to receiving your allowance. He had to go to work because of the 89 thousand forints he could not make a living with his family. Then they reported it wrong, eight hours. In your inflexible system, not the employer was ordered to correct, but this man's allowance was taken. He can no longer go to a place where he can receive another pension, because there is no more mine in Hungary. You closed the last one last year. He can't get another title. This is your inflexible system. With these examples, I just want to prove that all you see in this is business. They see business for those who run these cooperatives. This is not an option for annuity miners. Annuities miners have the opportunity to return all of their privileges that were taken from them on December 31, 2012. Give back early retirement benefits, give back service pensions, make this system flexible again. I think that if you want to work alongside a pension, you don't have to set up a cooperative for the Hungarian State, you don't have to encourage the creation of cooperatives in any way, and you have to do a damn good business, but you have to see the situation properly, you have to ease the rules of employment. Believe me, then these people will find a way to work. If the image from which the author starts is wrong, because this problem is new to him, an incorrect answer to a wrong question is likely to arise. But someone's financialally, financially, that's a hell of a lot of good for them. The miners have been left out of this, and now the miners have been dragged into this. As the author of this, you should say, "Good luck." I think it's at least cynical. I think that the opportunity for settlements, for areas where heavy industry has ceased, must be created. I think the miners should be given the right amount of money. Twenty-five years or five thousand shifts, you have to give me the opportunities that you took from them, and it's time to give it back, I think. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2017-10-03-32	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-03-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I comment on the draft, I would like to add a few sentences to the thoughts of the speakers before me, to be more precise. On several occasions, my fellow socialists criticized and demanded the VAT reduction of our fellow Member Nyitrai's references to VAT reductions. Is it credible to hear from you that you expect the VAT reduction to be extended when the VAT on food was raised to 25 per cent in the period when you were on the government, and you could have done so to keep the VAT at the level of food where it was or to reduce it if you wanted it to be. And I would also like to say a sentence to my fellow Member Tamás Sneider, Mr Vice-President, in which he said that wages do not increase in Hungary. I would like to draw your attention, because it has been said many times among the walls of this House that the real value of real wages has increased by 24 percent over the last seven years. And in the case of a family with multiple children, we are talking about actions there, say, in the case of a family with three children, this meant a 50 percent increase in real wages. What if it's not a pay rise? Maybe so much for the seriousness of some of their sentences, some of their thoughts. But back to my original intention to speak, I would like to say a few thoughts about the motion before us, the bill. [[11.10]] The bill before us complements the scope of eligibility of those participating in pensioners' cooperatives of general interest governed by the cooperative law with beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits and amends the related sectoral laws in this context. The purpose of the bill is therefore to provide for the extension of the benefit for those participating in pensioners' cooperatives of general interest to beneficiaries of a temporary mining allowance. If we are to talk about pensioners' cooperatives in general, we can say that employment there indirectly contributes to ensuring that the knowledge and professional experience gained by members does not go to waste, but is used and used in the economy in the field of services. Retirement cooperatives are also an opportunity for our senior countrymen to find a new form of knowledge, professional experience and complement their income by completing their active careers. For the national economy, these citizens also represent a reliable, experienced workforce reserve of thousands. At the same time, we believe that the inclusion of beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits in employment through pensioners' cooperatives can reduce the pressure on the labour market, replace the skills and expertise that are lacking in practice. In essence, the bill removes the distinction between groups of citizens in the same situation, those receiving old-age pensions and those receiving temporary mining benefits by extending the legislation on pensioners' cooperatives to include the latter. With this opportunity, the government wishes to recognise the decades of work of miners in difficult circumstances, by naturally supporting this draft. Dear Parliament, In addition to the law on cooperatives, the bill amends the related sectoral laws, which are necessary for legal reasons. According to the government, the bill acts fairly with the beneficiaries of the mining allowance, so it is fully in line with the government's efforts. I ask you to support the bill supported by the government with your vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from the Fidesz Group, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács.
u2017-10-03-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor because it was expected and it happened that the same arguments from the opposition side, in particular from the socialist side, would be made, as they were expressed in June. At the time, and now, I was of the opinion that this legislation, the basic law of this legislation, is specifically designed to ensure a safer and better job for those who would otherwise be able to work in a very difficult and vulnerable situation on their own. I must tell you, House, that, throughout the world, not only in Hungary, when the period of retirement is approaching, and when it is already at a reasonable distance, the person concerned is thinking deeply about what kind of life it is, what it will achieve in the future, what kind of life it will continue to be. I have experienced this, and I was lucky, because I had an occupation where I could continue to work, I was not dependent on someone or someone, the employer, as we now call it, let us call it, by name, the type of worker, the capitalist, whose job is to employ those who work for the greatest possible profit, because he wants to strengthen the economy, especially his own economy, so that he can deal with people with the cheaper wages, the better conditions for himself. The alliance serves to ensure that a group which, on the basis of mutual trust, enters into such a alliance is much less vulnerable. Those who attempt to enter the labour market through such an association already have certain protections, which are protected by the law on the one hand and by the association group on the other. For my part, I told you in June, and I have to say now that there are several reasons why I supported and supported this law, but first and foremost, it is that we have taken a step that, for a long time, just before the predecessors of the socialists, before 90, has created a situation where the alliance has become some kind of a curse, even though in Hungary the alliance is the XIX. From the first century onwards, for those who were vulnerable, it was a kind of guarantee and security. This is what I am convinced now that this law, which may need to be improved, must be changed, every law is like this, but at this moment, as it has now begun, let those who are now opposed, with respect, put their hands in place in the place of their hearts, I see that since June there has been a movement of this law, an echo within society that should be viewed as positive. Cooperatives are forming, and these cooperatives seem to be viable. Dear House, I must also say with regard to this law that it must be seen clearly, and now I say to young people that over the age of 50 - and there are many people here who feel young but over 50 - when they want to leave the labour market, they will be surprised that they are no longer young, they will be surprised how interesting this employer will find a hundred excuses, not for me, but for a 30-year-old or younger person. The alliance we are talking about must provide guarantees against these vulnerabilities. How? Among other things, financial opportunities. Please make it clear that the person who gives you work is the employer, not a charity. It's not that I'm such an infinitely humane person that I want you to work and live better. That's not the story. It's about trying to make a profit. If the state wants and wants the government to do so, and we want that, under better conditions, those who have retired can continue to work, benefits must be given on both sides, on the employer's side and on the employee's side. Only this kind of balance can create the fact that we can really create a new situation, at least in one segment of the market that has been saturated over the past period, i.e. by workers, in order to ensure these benefits. That is why I think that if you think carefully about it, and we are not talking about whether retirement is enough, well, pension is never enough, I dare say this with certainty, and I can also say very firmly that if we think about it very carefully, this will be even more so in the next 10-20-30 years, and, consequently, we must increasingly guarantee that anyone who can work, who is healthy, can work under the right conditions. And let's make one thing clear: if you reach retirement age, it doesn't follow that you've forgotten everything you've known before, that you can't work anymore, that you're a person that's going to be pushed to the periphery by society - on the contrary! I think it has already been said here, but it cannot be stressed enough that there are areas within life and within work that need some experience. I do not dispute that today, a 20-year-old obviously has a much better understanding of certain electronic devices - they are pushing it all day - which have little value for electronic devices, but there are other areas that are just because of the lack of interest, I think young people have shortcomings. Therefore, if we take a step in this area and we can say on the labour market that yes, not only on equal terms, but even with the help of the government, with our help, you can get there on a little better terms, then this can only be supported. For my part, I support the change. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr László Varga of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-03-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State Cseresnyés, I would like to respond very briefly to the VAT questions that you have raised; this is not closely related to the proposal, which is why I am doing so briefly. You have introduced the 27 percent VAT at the European summit, which still applies to most foods today. [[11.20]] This happened during your administration, your responsibility. What VAT reductions were made before 2010? For example, to say that the tax on district heating has decreased to 5 per cent, which has significantly reduced the heating costs of people living in panel apartments and, five years ago, the Socialist Group has proposed in Parliament and everywhere, at least 15 times, our proposal to reduce the VAT rate for the most basic food to 5 per cent. That's in the budget. This could be done, and it has to be done now, because it is good for people, and it is also important in the fight against VAT fraud. Mr Secretary of State said that this would reduce the pressure on the labour market. I do not think that would reduce the pressure, but Béla Turi-Kovács also mentioned what an opportunity it is for these people. You know what? I'll make a suggestion. I think it's a solution. Cancel this proposal and return the mining pension to these people. Then, by the way, these people, if they think they can join such cooperatives and work as pensioners, then they do not need to create a separate piece of legislation in this form that you would like now, because they realized that they had forgotten these people when they created the original legislation. They'll find a solution to their lives, and otherwise they'll be able to get all the rights they've already acquired back. So one of today's goals, I think, is to restore the mining pension. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-03-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Vigh, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate, I think we need to make it clear that we need a huge respect for pensioners, because they have already worked a life, and after that life, I think that János Bencsik's proposal offers them another opportunity. I think that János Bencsik had listened to all the things we were talking about, and they also indicated that they liked this bill. I do not believe that my fellow Member has come before you with a proposal that he has not listened to any of the stakeholders or participants. Another thing that is very important, what I would like to say is that maybe 7-8 years ago, you could hear voices saying that in some professions, pensioners would be good to retire, since they would take away the opportunity from young workers. I haven't heard that lately. I hear that it is very important that when someone is in such a state of health, they have such abilities, it is important that they work on the labour market, if they can. I consider their employment to be very important, because there are 4 million 432 thousand and 730 thousand more people working today instead of 3.7 million people. They smiled a little when the Prime Minister announced in 10 that we were asking for 1 million jobs. So nearly 800,000 people are working compared to 2010. If pensioners are needed, it means the economy is spinning. The economy is at a stage of development where all the people who want to do something are needed. I think that this bill complements employment. I do not think it would be a problem for stakeholders, so we also ask the opposition to support this good proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-03-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varga has applied for a two-minute speech, but since no one has spoken in a normal time frame, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, who has asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would use the normal speech in a very formal way, partly in relation to the possibility of a response. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the number of a few thousand people who are receiving temporary mining benefits at the moment is obviously falling, because some of them are reaching the retirement age, and some of them are unfortunately not yet achieving it, because they have worked for 25 years, at least 25 years in the underground sector or at least 5 thousand shifts, which could lead to serious health damage or risk to them. So I'm asking you to reinstate your mining pension in their case. For the record, a few years ago, the cost of this was approximately HUF 6 billion. Obviously, exactly how much this would cost today should be calculated, but it would certainly be a smaller amount. I think, for someone who spends a lot of money on luxury investments, one of their main projects is to move the Prime Minister to the Castle or to develop his hometown, I think that instead of that, it would be a more important goal to give back mining pensions to those who deserve it. The main cause of labour market problems is that 600,000 people have left this country. They are very lacking in this labour market. If these were most highly skilled workers, then these problems would not be. Thus, the solution to labour market problems is not that former mining pensioners receiving temporary mining benefits are forced back into the labour market, but that they are being given back their mining pension and that they are pursuing a policy on which hundreds of thousands of our emigrated Hungarian compatriots can return to this country and build their family and their own future. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-03-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask our fellow Member, János Bencsik, whether he wishes to respond as rapporteur to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I admit honestly that I am not ashamed to be a Member, if you like, a senior Member, because I have been elected as an individual MP in the Tata Basin, and the people who live there come to me at intervals with proposals and expectations that can only be treated and rectified at parliamentary level. That's how it happened in this case. Even in the weeks following the adoption of the original law, during the summer period, I was contacted by some of the beneficiaries of the temporary mining allowance, then at the end of the summer and especially during the mining day held on the first weekend of September, quite many, surprisingly many of them came to me with their proposal and even their expectation that they could be included in the law on pensioners' cooperatives of general interest, who are basically in the age group between 45 and 63. I would like to highlight one of the things that Mr Nitrai has said, and this is the pension premium, which may be paid in the following year depending on how the domestic economy is performing. If the domestic economy performs well and GDP exceeds the threshold above which it is possible to pay the pension premium, that can happen. However, this requires a functioning, strong, well-performing economy, where the presence of labour hands is essential. This law can help, even to a small extent, but in this way, that in areas where this relatively young circle of retirement age is not yet available, they can also work for something, disciplined and community, they contribute to the strengthening and completion of a given regional economy, which is added to the national economy level, which can create the possibility of paying the pension premium. My colleague László Varga justified the rejection of the bill by saying that the draft law and the government are pushing those with the lowest pensions into the labour market. It's not like that. You should know, as you are likewise a representative of an industrialised and previously supported area, which has been strengthened by mining, that those with mining benefits are not included in this category. [[11.30]] So they're receiving high pension-like provisions well above the national average. The reclassification did not have a significant financial disadvantage for them, but I can say - and I said this several times at the meeting of my own group at the time - that those who spend 25 years in an underground mine and spend 5,000 shifts there are emotionally experiencing this kind of re-rating. At the same time, this extended to all groups of professions in the 2012 decision, since the majority of the Parliament drew a very strong, clear clause and a boundary, according to which there are old-age pensions, so there is retirement pension provision, and there are also forms of pension-like but not pension-registered forms of care established on the basis of different acquired entitlements. This was basically an emotional tension and problem, not a meaningful change in the financial situation. I see no reason to withdraw the bill, since the interests of a few thousand groups, if still small, were discussed here, but this is a representative work, a commitment of representatives. What I can do is that if I return to my constituency, I will inform all those who have proposed to submit this bill that the Socialist Party proposes to withdraw it, and have proposed the draft. [[Dr. László Varga: But also tell me why. Dr. László Kács: We'll go with you. Dr. István Józsa: Don't just say that, John.]] I thank Tamás Sneider, my fellow Member, Mr Vice-President, with respect. By supplementing or reducing the fact that beneficiaries of a temporary mining allowance, if they make use of the possibility of working through a pensioner's cooperative of general interest, will hardly work in a deep-growing mine. So here in Hungary, the last underground mine, which employed the miners in large numbers, was closed, taking into account the EU's obligations or obligations. Recultivation ends at the end of this year in the area of the Vértes Power Plant. Where they work - and it's not without danger - is deep construction, construction construction, park construction, park maintenance; these are the groups of professions where they are most able to work, and they have been able to do so, mostly under legal conditions, and in bottlenecks, not in completely legal conditions, we know that too. They would like to work legally, which is why they were asked not to play chess at the end of the year, the last one or two months, so that their existing benefits and their income on the labour market would be in sync with domestic regulations. This bill suggests, if not the most optimal, but a useful solution. I didn't quite understand the outburst of my fellow chef. He even questioned whether I knew the social and economic framework where I had spent the last 30 years. I would like to point out that yes, Mr Cook, I am fully aware. I served as mayor for 20 years as a community where a community based on mining traditions, based not only on cultural traditions, but also on human relations, lives its life. And people say hello to me, say hello to me after 30 years, and I have to try to say hello to retired miners in advance as a token of respect, because sometimes they do a lot better with greetings than I can react. So this is also the most important thing in the representative work, that if there are things that we disagree on, dialogue should be done, and mutual respect provides the basis for discussing issues that are controversial on a subject, it can be discussed, thought through, and the first and very important element of this conversation is being in a thank-you situation, so nexus, direct contact. He mentioned that the government reduced sales tax on wild game meat as a basic food. Well, and the wild chicken, certainly, and the wild fish; the fact is, it's not so easy to catch fish, especially by fishing methods. But the reason why fish, pigs, poultry, milk, are all in this circle, where the overall turnover tax has been reduced, is because they are basic foods. So this is what goes into the shopping basket, of course, this must be reduced, as the burden-bearing ability of the national economy makes this possible, and gradually, but continuously, all these basic foods have been included in this basket, of course, in the wild meat. [[Dr. László Kács: The bread is included.]] He mentioned the difficult situation in South Transdanubia, following the cessation of mining in Mecsek and hops, in terms of employment and livelihood in that region. The North Transdanubian region, where I come from, where I provide the representative work, is in the same difficult situation as the entire Komárom-Esztergom county, along with the coal pools in Liony, Dorogi and Tatabánya. You can also say, Member, or you could say that our situation was easy, because the highway reached this area by the end of the 1980s, just when the traditional socialist heavy industry collapsed and the recovery was easier. On the other hand, if I remember correctly, the motorway number 6, which my colleague Toller, my former mayor, called for, is M6, if I count correctly, I am not entirely sure, but for about ten years at least it has served the development and availability of South Transdanubia, and the availability of the motorway in terms of economic development, as far as successful economic development is concerned, is necessary, and no one doubts that. But in the meantime, if we not only talk about the importance of economic development, especially at a time when we can see that in this area of Europe, here in Central Europe, there will be major investments and job creation investments compared to the European average, then what is doing, Congressman, besides coming at intervals, is distributing us here, who already have some kind of reference in the area of local economic development, and who distributes us because we represent the interests of those receiving temporary mining benefits, which are in this case precisely the interests of those receiving a temporary mining allowance. [[Dr. László Kács: Since Fidesz is driving, nothing has really improved!]] who you should stand by and speak out. And here he's threatening to withdraw this law because it's not good. [[Dr. László Kács: Varga said that, but I agree with him!]] and does not support stakeholders who have requested this referral. [[Dr. László Kács: If we go to Tatabánya, we will tell you how we think!]] Then he also said that this was just a business for the government and for the ruling party. Have you heard of Mr. Czeglédy's name? [[Interview from Fidesz: Yes!]] You've heard of Mr. Czeglédy's name. [[Dr. István Józsa: Fake accusations!]] there in Vas County, around Szombathely, where what the hell was he doing? [[Dr. László Varga: Do you have the verdict yet? Are you going to present that, Congressman?]] In the case of a student cooperative of public interest, a cooperative with student employment, well, to put it mildly, it failed to fulfil its obligations towards the public register on the one hand. [[Dr. István Józsa: The NAV seized everything without foundation!]] On the other hand, if he did, he was only late in fulfilling the compensation for the work done by the students. [[Dr. László Varga: But there hasn't been a judgment! Dr. László Kács: Have you read the verdict?]] You're absolutely right, if you're gonna do this, Mr. Cook. [[Dr. László Kács: Political matter!]] from this experience, from your personal experience, how your political community looks towards cooperative employment [[Dr. László Varga: You're talking politics! There hasn't been a judgment!]] Then, of course, you'll come to that conclusion. But it doesn't necessarily have to be general across the country or within other political communities. [[11.40]] Dear Congressman Varga, [[Dr. László Kács: Fidesz already knows the verdict!]] Yes, that was a very important step in the socialist government's time when, at the last minute, the overall sales tax on district heating was reduced to 5%. It was a very important decision; it was a pity that the same decision had been taken to eliminate the compensation for gas prices, and as a result, the reduction of the VAT - with a pen stroke, a legislation, the Bajna package, the IMF asked you to make this decision, they made this decision - the gas price compensation was nullified. [[Dr. László Varga: There was compensation until the change of government! It was until the last minute!]] The reason I remember this so well is that in 2010, when I was in charge of the State Secretary for Energy, the first decision had to be to introduce district heating restructuring aid in order not to immediately introduce a 30% increase in charges in the area of district heating. [[Dr. László Varga: I had the compensation until the last moment!]] You are right, it was very important to reduce VAT by 5% in that area, but there was also a decision that, due to the country's external dependency, was inevitable for you. Finally, overall, I would like to thank you for this interesting conversation, rather than a discussion, and I would also like to encourage you to support the proposal during the detailed debate in order to enable the circle of beneficiaries of temporary mining benefits to become involved in the activities of pensioners' cooperatives in the general interest, thereby making it possible for those aged between 45 and 63 to become involved in the Community value-creation process, which can even facilitate the provision of the pension premium for those already receiving an old-age pension. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending Act C of 2003 on electronic communications will follow until closure. Presentation by László Kucsák and György Balla, Fidesz, Members T/17562. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Lajos Kucsák Mr President, the rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-45	Thank you for the floor, as László Kucsák. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2003 Electronic Communications Act was amended in 2017, so this year, which was also initiated jointly with my colleague György Balla. As a result of this amendment - as you know - I think it was a broad support for this amendment - we have set the maximum possible duration of fixed-term contracts in one year, except in cases where this subscription is linked to the purchase of a device. This was a welcome amendment, since it was in the interest of many subscribers. This amendment, which we also note with my fellow Member, György Balla, proposes that this possible maximum period of two years should be allowed, in addition to the constructions linked to the purchase of equipment, to be made by service providers in the case of subscriptions for the distribution and purpose of internet use, because we believe that this is also of subscriber interest. Why is that? It is certainly well known to you that, on the basis of the national consultation on the Internet and the proposals of the citizens participating in the national consultation, the government has decided to introduce the Digital Prosperity Package. The purpose of this basic package is to ensure that all those who could not do this at a standard price are able to subscribe in order to make broadband internet use as widely as possible. According to the government's intention and our belief, this will therefore serve the goal of providing broadband internet access to subscribers as widely as possible, with the possibility of subscription, thus increasing digital competence in Hungary. I can confirm that from my constituency, the 18th. from the district, because there are many citizens of Pestszentlőrinci and Pestszentimre who have already given me a positive signal of the previous amendment, and when this intention was formulated, they also welcomed it, regardless of whether it is young people, active age or even pensioners, because it would be important and important in each segment, in each age group, if this were to happen. I trust that it can happen and that this motion will receive similar support as the previous one. Therefore, the basic package "Digitual well-being" aims to provide this particular internet access as widely as possible under reduced conditions. For your information, I would also like to tell you that the government has established a trademark for the basic package "Digitual Prosperity": Internet service providers can sell subscription packages with such a label in the event of a successful tender. The application is successful if it meets the conditions of use of the trademark established by the Government in spring 2017. Under these conditions, a subscriber who has not had an internet subscription in the last year, and a basic package with the same speed and technical content, must be cheaper than an internet subscription package, and the basic package with the same speed and technical content can be used through a one- or two-year fixed-term subscription contract if this motion is supported. As also background information, I would also like to say to you that the first applications have already been completed, the digital well-being and basic packages have been available in the service providers' supply since June 2017, and it is an explicit government intention to allow users to conclude these subscription contracts for a limited period of two years. By the way, this is an advantage for the subscriber in particular, as it is thus guaranteed for a longer period of time by a subscription providing them with a real discount. The two-year contract will also serve more effectively the internet expansion and service objectives of the Digital well-being package, since after that time the subscriber will be more likely to remain on the Internet. I would like to suggest a few other circumstances to your attention, with the intention of eliminating certain doubts in advance. Our amendment does not allow room for broad interpretation or abuse. Why not? Due to the following reasons: the exception can only be applied specifically to discount subscription packages that encourage internet use; in order to qualify as such a subscription package, it is necessary to rely on requirements recognised by the State; in the case of the basic package, the trade mark application decision specifies whether the package meets the requirements. This precludes the arbitrary design of such packages by service providers, since the existence of requirements recognised by the State is essential for the fulfilment of the legal requirement. Furthermore, there is a reduction in the fact that such a subscription contract can only be concluded by subscribers entitled to discounts. In the case of the digital well-being and basic package, this means customers who have no internet subscription in the last year, which, for example, excludes existing customers of the service provider, so they cannot in principle be concluded with such a contract. I would also like to point out here that our proposal has another substantive element, and this provides as a new paragraph that, if we accept this amendment, the consumer may terminate the loyalty agreement even if he wishes to use the service as a new address for moving, but the service provider cannot do so for technical reasons. [[11.50]] Termination is possible if the consumer does not have a fee due to the service provider. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill, as I can say that this amendment is again in the interests of subscribers. It serves the case in which, I think, we all agree, in any place in the parliamentary horseshoe, we should take a seat in order to give as many people as possible access to broadband internet, and it is important that those who cannot do this at normal prices can use this as much as possible. We may also agree that the development and dissemination of digital competences is in the interest of all of us here in Hungary. If you agree with these goals and intentions, I trust that the bill will be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-03-46	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague László Kucsák for his speech and I will follow up on the miscommunication of his name. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak on behalf of the Government now or later in the debate. [[Dr. János Fónagy: After the lectures, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-03-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we agree on the goals, but this may be the only thing we agree on about this bill. Broadband internet, electronics, the use of these should be disseminated as much as possible. We've thought of it as before, and we believe that your bill is actually an inappropriate attempt on a suitable subject. Anyway, they're repeating that now. I listened to my fellow Member say how successful this was and how well it was in the interests of subscribers. In fact, what has happened again is that you are not submitting such proposals as individual representatives because the government is busy, the government has other important things to do, but not because you were once at home on a rainy Sunday with Balla's fellow Member, and you were wondering how to improve the Hungarian Internet service. That's not why. This is in order to bypass the social consultation forums for which the government should devote time, and the government should have done these social consultations, especially the consultations with the companies concerned, and you do not have to do so. So they bypass these forms of reconciliation, and it became chaos. In fact, we see that this law has been amended countless times in recent months. First, the loyalty period was reduced from 24 to 12 months. Then they saw that the service providers responded, the market reacted, immediately flooded the customers who wanted to leave it, and accordingly, you had to fix it with a TAB modification. It's the curse of the rush, so to speak, the revenge of the reject. Then Internet subscriptions were actually increased by half the loyalty time reduced. We need to see that the digital well-being package has not been very discounted, it is less or less discounted than it can be achieved for anyone on the market. I don't think a mark is gonna help that. This thinking, shared thinking, social consultation and proper interaction and dialogue with market participants would have helped. And, of course, an assessment of the needs. Let's not forget one thing. What you've done to increase these services has been sectoral taxes. There was a time when all kinds of special taxes fell like rain in Hungary. There were times in a year when, I think, 12 or 14 taxes were born in Hungary. This was also the utility tax; the Internet is also mostly cable-borne, and an iks forint was issued per river meter. But it really doesn't matter if it's sewage, drinking water or cable and internet services. Yes, the result was that in smaller settlements smaller operators even picked up the previously installed service cable, after which they would not have been able to manage the tax imposed by you. This service is the most expensive service in Hungary throughout the European Union because 29 percent of the revenue of these service companies is included in the register of the Hungarian state. It doesn't make it cheaper if they just want to cut loyalty time. That's why I'm telling you this is an inappropriate experiment on a suitable subject. They're heading the wrong way. You can still unravel this proposal as you wish, but in fact, the direction is wrong, the direction of thinking is wrong. Once again, this is because, of course, you are consciously circumventing the conciliation mechanisms that the government would otherwise have had an obligation to implement. You, the two of you, together with Balla's fellow Member, have no obligation to do this. There can be no broad interpretation or abuse in this. You said that, didn't you? Compared to this, you have opened up rather broad conditions and wide opportunities to the president of the NMHH in accordance with the legislation adopted in the spring, he can actually change the roaming charges for the Internet by service provider. In fact, he can make whatever decision he wants. You have adopted this legislation. Well, what's a bigger rule than that, a man making a choice? Anyone who doesn't come to this Parliament, by the way, always sends someone in his place when discussing the accounts, where he doesn't present his own budget, but the Committee on Budgets, as a host, brings in the budget of the NMHH that they can never account for. Well, it's the president who's going to set roaming charges by his own decision, and otherwise, it's safe for him to set specific roaming charges per provider. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have not thought of a broader framework, we are pleased because there are no broader frameworks. It's real. We would like to see these frameworks narrowed down a bit and at least followed the rules that are normal and adopted in the European Union. We think it'd be a lot easier. We believe - and therefore we do not support it, nor did we support it at the beginning because we saw it coming - that the market will react to what you say. Your hand and will can't reach everywhere. The market reacted in such a way that these services did not become cheaper or even more expensive. The market reacted that the discount is no longer a discount, but there is something available to almost everyone, and this is not because of you, but because of the reaction of the market and the reaction of the service providers. We do not think that this legislation should be dealt with. I don't think the government should talk to him in the debate, but to bring in a government referral, to conduct negotiations, to go to market players, to consult the Fidesz as much as you want. They obviously already know in advance when they send out questionnaires about the outcome of the consultation. I want you to consult with people as much as you want. These are obviously false questions you're asking. Who doesn't want the Internet to be cheaper? Everybody wants it. Who doesn't want the Internet to be available everywhere? Everybody wants it. Actually, the goal is correct, but the means that you want to achieve it are actually inadequate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-03-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-03-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, this presentation only affects a very small part of what MEP László Kucsák spoke about in the author's exposé, the basic package of the digital well-being itself. In most cases, it must be acknowledged that it contains consumer-friendly provisions favourable to the consumer. However, it is not elegant in any legislation, if Parliament adopts a law with retroactive effect, to amend legislation retroactively, by applying this legislation to existing contracts already concluded. In addition to setting favourable rules for the consumer, this cannot be said for the service provider and there are not only large service providers on the market. It would therefore be worth reconsidering whether this would otherwise be contrary to the rules of the legislation. [[12.00]] The basic package itself is obviously a step forward. This, I think, is not disputed by anyone who is capable of being reasonable, but at the same time it is worth a little recalling how Hungary stands with regard to Internet access in the European Community, in the neighbouring countries. This government had a plan earlier - and it must not be forgotten - to introduce an Internet tax. So the view of broadening access to the Internet was that this government had no basis at all, and even wanted to introduce a tax increase that would have narrowed the possibilities. Years after that, and after Jobbik's proposal for free internet, the strategy of the Digital Prosperity was created at all, as part of which the Digital Prosperity ] basic package could also be created, but Hungary's lag in this competition has increased in terms of internet access and internet usage compared to other countries in Europe. Even if it were faster to implement the strategy, which was laid out in the Digital Prosperity Strategy, we may not be able to catch up otherwise, because at the moment we are going from one to two slower than the Western European countries from five to six, so our competitive disadvantage is increasing. They are coming from a better situation - I am going to support with data what I am saying - better results for the Western European countries, but I could even mention the surrounding countries, and the most extreme, perhaps the best example in this regard is Estonia, which should also not be considered so extreme in relation to Hungary. If we are talking about the price of subscriptions, because the basic package itself is linked to this, we can say, based on NMHH data, that the median of access in Hungary is EUR 54, which is the sixth highest in the European Union, more than twice the median price of the old Western Member States. So if we compare the price alone, we also see that the internet subscription in Hungary costs twice as much as in Western Europe. And then I didn't even mention the differences in salaries. If we're gonna take this one, I'm gonna give you the most extreme example. The average payment in Denmark is EUR 4,000, and the average fee for the internet subscription is only EUR 20. Therefore, if we compare it to the average wage, the average internet subscription to a citizen in Hungary is 23.2 times higher than in that Member State than in Denmark. This is a huge competitive disadvantage. It is also a huge competitive disadvantage in the fact that it also hinders the spread of the Internet and the involvement of new users. Therefore, if we do not pay serious attention to helping the Internet spread in Hungary with the most effective means, it would also be extremely important for retail users and, in the case of SMEs, to reduce their competitive disadvantage, Hungary will not be able to take up XXI. In the first century, competition with other Member States of Europe. And it is not just this competitiveness aspect that is the 21st. In the 20th century, promoting Internet access should make it fundamental, but rather the idea that we should simply say that the 21st century has been the case. Internet access is a fundamental right in the first century. The fundamental right of all citizens in Europe is the 21st century. In the first century, it was to have access to the Internet. The young generation considers the internet medium, the virtual medium, to be practically the most natural medium, with all its advantages and disadvantages. But on the basis of the results of the Hungarian youth research, which was done last year, we can see that the five most popular activities in spending leisure time are all related to the Internet. Today's young people spend most of their free time only in Internet space - this is the case. The social consequences of this could also be discussed, but today it is a gift for us and for the 21st century. In the first century, there will be an increasing potential. We cannot talk enough about the opportunities and opportunities and prospects that the Internet and Internet access can open up in education, but I could also mention the spread of e-administration and the e-vote, the possibility of electronic voting, which is particularly important because this issue has not been resolved for people who have migrated from Hungary to Western Europe. I would not like to start a party political debate about who is not interested in it, but today a Hungarian citizen who works abroad or stays abroad for a longer period of time, but does not cancel his Hungarian address, he is virtually unable to participate in the elections, the parliamentary elections in Hungary. You'd have to travel hundreds of miles, which is obviously not to be expected. The introduction of electronic voting in their area would make this extremely simplified and would allow Parliament to actually become a national, and they should not be excluded from voting rights. But in the case of Hungarians across the border, it could also simplify a lot and make the system more secure, which now allows them to cast their votes instead of the dead. It's not enough to make the Internet a discount, it's got to be free. And it is not a opposition demagogy that we propose that the state provide a gigabyte mobile internet for everyone, otherwise it could be possible to do so from about HUF 10 billion a year, but it would serve precisely to improve the competitiveness of the SMEs mentioned above, and to prevent the continuous exclusion and increasing poverty of the most deprived population. The most deprived layer will not be able to buy the Internet at a discount, and in those environments, in areas where access to the Internet itself is not part of everyday life, this discount will not apply. On the other hand, it is also necessary to take into account the aspects of service providers, so that in an area where purchasing power is low in all cases, there will be no market for the service provider, there will be no interest in showing up at all in that area and there will be no competition if we do not ensure that these people have access. This also justifies the fact that basic internet access in Hungary must be made free of charge. I have one more thing to say about young people: the generation gap that is present in all societies, in all ages, may be even faster because of the Internet and can cause even greater tensions, so it would also be necessary to pay attention to developing and spreading digital competences as much as possible in the case of adult education. In the adult education system, there are primarily funded programmes that prepare people for one occupation, and very few others that enhance language competences, digital competences or any other competence. I know that the Digital Prosperity Strategy contains some of these, and, for example, a very important and priority area for teachers, is the launch of such programmes, but this should be taken more seriously than it is in that strategy. This will also be key for the 21st century. On our competitiveness in the century. I would also like to quote what one of our fellow Members, László L. Simon, said, and he said very well how far Hungary is behind in terms of Internet access. L. Simon László said that if this continues as we are at the moment in the field of Internet services, Hungary will face a serious competitive disadvantage. Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the internet cheaper than we do here, and, by the way, in some places, Internet access is already greater than in many parts of the country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's been a problem for many years. In France, Germany, Austria, the income conditions are much higher than we do and, in fact, access to broadband is cheaper. [[12.10]] But Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai also said that the Internet is a genre of freedom, not these prevailing trends in the world, to tax the Internet, but to make it more free and more accessible to all our compatriots. Freedom is the best solution for this, the most effective solution, which, once again, would amount to ten billion HUF a year's spending on the central budget. I would very much ask the party of the government to consider this, because the arguments I have just mentioned are also entirely justified. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-03-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are indeed living in the age of informatics, digitalization, and the present and the future of digitalization. The Government of Hungary is actively involved in this, putting Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people in a position. For all households that require this, access to wired or wireless super-fast internet connection will be provided by the end of 2018. However, in the course of technical development, we must not forget consumers, and in rapidly changing circumstances, we must pay particular attention to their protection. That is why we welcomed - and I must say that, after listening to the main speeches, this is our intention to strengthen - the spring initiative of Mr Balla and Mr Kucsák, which complements the electronic communications law with rules that protect consumers. Thanks to the new rules that will enter into force from the end of October, we cannot be bound by the service provider, as the loyalty period can be no more than one year. If the loyalty treaty becomes unfavourable to us because, for example, our favourite television channel is out of supply, we can terminate the contract without consequences. Furthermore, service providers cannot ask for money for the decoupling of phones if we have otherwise served the loyalty of subscribers. I would like to point out in particular that these new rules were also welcomed by the opposition in the parliamentary debate at that time. The current motion of the Members is closely linked to the process that has been initiated by their proposal adopted this summer. The aim remains unchanged, the consumer's interest is the priority, and the legislation must protect him, if necessary, even against the service providers. That is why we support this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before you complements the rules on communication in the spirit of the amendments adopted this summer in two important areas. In addition to the general protection of consumers, it is also important for the state to encourage the use of the Internet to ensure that the Internet is available cheaply but qualitatively for those who cannot afford it at market prices. There is already such a public initiative, as from June of this year more and more service providers will be offered a basic package of digital well-being, offering low-cost subscription opportunities for users who have not previously used the Internet. However, such preferential subscriptions, recognised by the State, should be subject to different rules than market subscriptions. In market subscriptions, it is desirable that the subscriber should not be stuck in it for long. In the case of a preferential subscription recognised by the State, however, it protects the interests of the consumer if he can benefit from this discount as much as possible. This is also justified by life, the basic package of the digital well-being is typically connected by subscribers for a period of two years. In principle, this would not be possible from the end of October, since according to the new rules that entered into force at that time, there can only be one year of fidelity. The bill before us therefore clearly states that preferential internet subscriptions recognised by the State can be concluded for two years. It is important to point out that the exception applies only to this special type of subscription, and that one year of loyalty can be achieved from the end of October in the case of market contracts. This supplement supports the fulfilment of government objectives. Another important element of the bill also responds to an existing problem. If you move and take your Internet or TV subscription with you, the service may not be available at your new place of residence. If this is done during the loyalty period, many service providers demand a penalty from the consumer for the premature termination of the contract. They do this despite the fact that the consumer is the least responsible for the fact that the service provider has not built up its network for its new place of residence. The bill puts an end to this situation, it clearly states that there is no penalty from the consumer, the consumer cannot be paid for things that he has nothing to do with, which he cannot do. Dear Parliament, We believe that by adopting the bill, we will further strengthen the position of consumers in the digital world and help them to fully benefit from digitalisation. That is why I would like to ask my fellow Members that the T/17562 on electronic communications. Please support bill No 1 in the course of the parliamentary debate. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity and for the attention of my fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak on the agenda further. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to my fellow Member, László Kucsák, who wishes to respond as rapporteur.
u2017-10-03-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for your kindness. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all those who have spoken in the debate. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Secretary of State for his support and for the things that he mentioned, if that is the case, I would not mention separately. Allow me, then, to respond first to the comments of Mrs Dóra Dúró, in some way in the time order, for the sake of decency. I am pleased that we are largely in agreement, and I think, as regards the specific proposal, that it will probably be eligible, as I have explained from your point of view. Thank you very much for that. In fact, I think that the basic package "Digitual Prosperity" is a step forward, as I think it is important, and we also consider the strategy "Digitual Prosperity" to be a step forward. If it is now on time, if we are late in this, or if we could have done it faster, in larger steps, this is always a matter of debate, between the party of the government and the opposition, I think it is quite natural. The whole point is to try to achieve these objectives and these content as effectively as possible by involving the resources available. The competitive disadvantage of Hungary versus Western Europe, if any, may be worth bringing to the agenda in the Committee on Culture even in the context of an NMHH report. Just because many aspects can be brought up, and if we bring up, for example, a Danish case or a Danish comparison, it is worth remembering what Danish history, even in recent history, included and what recent history in Hungary included. But I do not want to go into this either, because I have just proposed that we may be able to discuss this on a professional basis in the Committee on Culture. I'm sure there will be an interesting dialogue. In the context of young people in Hungary, we agree perfectly, and indeed research supports the fact that young people spend a lot of time on the Internet - in quotes - which is a circumstance that we obviously need to start something on merit. [[12.20]] There are a lot of useful things to see there, and this is certainly welcome. The fact that these tools are used perfectly daily and every minute is also a welcome thing, and we must also create the conditions, which is once again very important. Otherwise, the government will take part in this, and it will continue to take place in such a way that we will also draw attention to the dangers of children, young people, parents and grandparents that are stalking them and how they can be resisted by these threats. Aware of the responsibility for the future, this is definitely a very important task we have to do together. I myself consider this to be an extremely important issue. In the context of e-administration, I would like to remind you that if you look back a few years in Hungary, there is a significant improvement in this. I trust we can agree on that. We're not talking about the end of the process. We're talking about a situation. I think that's at least what we can say. But thank you very much for your comment. I would like to point out to Mr László Szakács - I would ask Mr Zsolt Legény to be kind enough to translate to him - thanking the Member for his suggestions, who said that we agree with the aim, so far, I have valued the speech as an "A" on my part, and then he said that it was only in the end. Then later he said that our thinking direction was wrong. Well, if we agree on the point and you say it's wrong, then it's a little difficult for me to resolve, but I'm sure it's on my device. I wouldn't think of it there, however, when you said, Mr Cook, that you, therefore we, have expensive these services. No, we didn't cost these services. With this concrete proposal and its background, we certainly have not increased our price, not even because our previous proposal for spring, as Mr János Fónagy mentioned, is about to come into effect. If Mr Cook sees into the future and sees in the present what he suspects is how it will be realised in the market, he must find a way of deciphering it. Our spring amendment will enter into force at the end of October, so bringing up the terrifying cases in the present is at least a category of poetic exaggeration. Mr Cook also mentioned the difficulties that we have caused the country and the population of the country with sectoral taxes. I, for one, would like to reject that. It would be very important for a socialist Member to ask himself, moving in the category of self-examination, what situation you have brought up until 2010, after which our government had to try to put order in economic life. And we have not chosen the path that you have, by the way, used as a practice for a very long time, that we have put as much pressure on citizens as possible, but that the government has sought out the opportunities for those sectors to which a greater burden can be placed in order for the country and the country's economy to climb out of this very big pit. It is important to emphasise this, Mr President, because you have applied this practice once again - you have taken out loans and loans, and most of all you have not had to repay them under your government, but the governments that follow you. Known as this method, Margaret Thatcher said that she had not yet met with a Labour Government that would not only have taken the loan, but would have paid it back. You've applied this perfectly, but it's not in the country's best interest. We did not try to deal with these issues by borrowing and solving them, but put the country's economy on a different path, on a developing path, and obviously with difficulties, but it is already showing the results of this. Here, I would suggest that those who have indebted the country, and within the country, not only public finances are in a difficult situation, but also the local government and families, there would be no problem if they had a little more self-study skills and ability. Finally, Mr Szakács also mentioned that the head of the NMHH did not appear before Parliament in person to explain what had happened and what had happened in the NMHH's activities. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, in accordance with Parliament's decision, the head of the NMHH reports to the Parliament's Committee on Culture. In addition to members of the Committee on Culture, our fellow Members in other committees may be present in these reports. I would also like to tell you, for information, that the head of the NMHH is personally involved each time, together with his expert colleagues, and is available to discuss and answer various questions and suggestions. In summary, I would like to thank you once again for the comments, and I hope that, since this proposal is also in the interests of the users of the service, so it is in the interests of the population, in order to enable as many people as possible to benefit from broadband Internet use and thus increase the level of digital competence in Hungary, I believe that these are welcome changes, as can be done in the case of leaving the specific fixed-term contract. I trust that, fellow Members, if you consider this proposal, you will give your support. That's what I urge you to do. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-54	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Albania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is hereby followed until closure. The government referral is T/17567. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Potápi, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2017-10-03-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the long bill is to publish a Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Albania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The aim of the agreement is to strengthen democracy and rule of law in Albania, contributing to the political, economic and institutional development of the country and the stabilisation of the region. The agreement aims to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the parties. It also aims to support Albania's efforts to strengthen its international trade relations, including by bringing its own legal system closer to EU law. Through the agreement, the European Union wants to support Albania in completing its market economy and thus becoming a harmonious economic partner and then a free trade partner in the long term. Croatia has become a party to this Treaty by concluding a protocol to be published in this bill. In view of Croatia's accession to the European Union, the Protocol was signed in Brussels on 20 February 2014 and entered into force in international law on 1 February 2017, thus the obligation of our country to publish the Protocol in European Union and international law. There has been a diplomatic relationship between Hungary and Albania since 1954, and the relations between the two countries are traditionally good. In the last decade and a half, the commitment of the current Albanian governments to EU integration has been undisturbed. Albania acknowledges the efforts made by our country to integrate the Euroatlantic countries in the Western Balkans and appreciates Hungary's first ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU in 2007 and its support for Albania's candidate status in 2014 and its support for the EU's decision to open accession negotiations in several forums, which is expected at the earliest in 2018. In support of the Albanian integration process, from 10 March 2017 we also delegated an ambassadorial expert to the Government of Tirana. [[12.30]] The Hungarian Government's consistent position, in line with the other V4 countries, is that the EU integration of the Western Balkan countries is a guarantee of peace and security in the region. We will therefore continue to stand for further enlargement of the European Union. We intend to further strengthen Hungarian-Albanian bilateral cooperation in line with our external economic goals, along the lines of mutual interests. In order to facilitate this, the Budapest-Tirana direct flight was resumed on 5 April 2017 and we hope for the development of our economic, commercial and tourism relations. In order to develop cultural cooperation, Hungary has offered 20 Albanian students a scholarship study opportunity per year in the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum, on the basis of a new bilateral scientific and educational cooperation agreement for the years 2016-18. I ask Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-03-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-03-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports this bill, which is presented and discussed, with the main aim of preparing Albania's integration into the EU, strengthening democracy and rule of law and strengthening the country's political, economic and institutional strength. Albania has been well on this path for a long time, but a few years ago, the country faced new challenges. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to talk about these, because these processes have an impact, they can affect the relations and security of Albania and the European Union. Albania has made promising progress during the governance of the right-wing Conservative Democratic Party between 2005 and 2013. At that time, however, the socialists returned to power. As a by-product of their governance, it has flourished again, not in the economy, but in the production and trafficking of drugs. There are thousands of plantations across the country, which the police do not bother at all. The opposition therefore had a right to fear that the Socialists would cheat the early summer election from the Mafia funds, which had to be postponed by a few weeks. Even though 27 years have passed since the change of regime, Albanian politics remains held by the clans strengthened during the communist dictatorship. A few months ago, the socialists wanted to appoint a known Communist state's attorney as Minister of the Interior. A few weeks ago, the last minister of the communist regime was elected president of the legislature. There has been a discussion in Parliament about how the left-wing Prime Minister is connected to the Soros network. Everywhere we look, we run into people from the Open Society Foundation. The organization's former office manager in Tirana, for example, is today the Prime Minister's wife. The young socialist elite studied abroad from the Open Society Foundation's scholarships and, returning home, also tried to influence Albanian internal politics with organizations created by its money. Of course, George Soros asks for the price. The current government dances like a billionaire speculator whistles. This is also worrying because Albania, as well as neighbouring Macedonia, is in a key position to implement the Soros plan because of its geographical location, where the Soros network is also rather active. Hundreds of thousands of migrants can be brought to the Union through these countries, as has already been done in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary supported Albania's status as EU candidate in 2014. The Government will also help to carry out the tasks necessary for the start of accession negotiations, all because the Euroatlantic integration of the Western Balkan countries is the key to peace and security in the region. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Fidesz Group supports this government proposal, we also recommend this to the opposition's fractions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-03-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-10-03-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Albania, of the other part, was signed in Luxembourg in 2006 and entered into force in early April 2009. On 9 December 2011, the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union was signed in Brussels, under which Croatia acceded to the European Union on 1 July 2013. Pursuant to an Article of the Act of Accession of Croatia, the accession of Croatia to this Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Republic of Albania is to be agreed by the conclusion of a Protocol. The Protocol to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Albania, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union was signed in Brussels in 2014, having regard to Croatia's accession to the European Union and entered into force in international law on 1 February 2017. The aim of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Albania, of the other part, is to strengthen democracy and rule of law in Albania, contribute to the political, economic and institutional development of the country and to the stability of the region. The agreement aims to provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the parties and to support Albania's efforts to strengthen its international trade relations, including by bringing its own legal system closer to EU law. Through this agreement, the European Union would like to support Albania in completing its market economy and becoming a harmonious economic partner and then, in the long term, a free trade partner. The overall objective of the agreement is to facilitate cooperation between the countries of the Balkan region. The Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Republic of Albania on the publication of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on the one hand, and the Republic of Albania on the other hand, is hereby approved on behalf of the European Union. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The bill was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament with 313 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. In this sense, of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the bill, but I have to say that my colleague Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of Fidesz, spoke to us about the Soros plan and everything, and, in an international context, tried to insult the Albanian socialists, ignoring the political realities of today. I wouldn't have much to do with it, but there is one thing. Congresswoman mentioned that she studied on the money of the Albanian young socialist elite Soros in the West and then returned home to serve the Soros interests. I would just like to point out with an analogy that the young guard of Fidesz, when he had the opportunity to do so, studied abroad in the late '80s, in the early '90s, as we know, on Soros's money. Here, a rather long list could be given by László Kövér through Zsolt Németh through many people. There was just a little problem when he came home from his studies abroad, so let's just say that the machine came to life on its own, and this self-life may not like George Soros, by the way. This could also be called the settlement debate between Fidesz and George Soros, but if such topical policy issues have already been brought in on Albanians, even if it does not please my fellow Member, István Vitányi, we must say that there is nothing else going on here, there is a settlement dispute between Fidesz and Soros. Because probably, as I say, the machine came to life on its own, and the leaders of Fidesz might not be doing what they should have done. [[12.40]] Nevertheless, of course, as I said, Mr President, the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the bill before us. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-10-03-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is very interesting what kind of debate has developed on an issue that has nothing to do with these political debates, which have been said here, how exactly the party in Albania is related to drug production, what influence George Soros has in that country, but it was interesting to hear. Just as it is interesting that we are talking about the Treaty between Albania and the European Union, and in fact this cooperation treaty has been concluded a long time ago, and I think that all political parties across the European Union think that this can only be useful, because Albania is a country that wants to belong to Europe, its roots belong to Europe, but it is an interesting point, given the composition of Albania, that 82 percent of the population is Albanian. It is a much smaller country than Hungary, with just over 28,000 square kilometres, with nearly 3 million people, 82 percent of whom live in Albania. And how interesting it is that the Albanians consider themselves to be two kinds of people, who are distinguished, divided into gags and Tusks, and that has also changed in who has taken on what religion. We know how serious the Albanian people fought against the Turkish invaders, because János Hunyadi was also an ally of György Kastrióta, and together they wanted to free the Balkans from the Turkish occupation of Ottoman occupation. The cooperation of the two peoples, the cooperation of the Hungarian and Albanian peoples, is also rooted in this struggle of freedom. I think that is why Hungary has an interest in Albania being a full member of the European Union as soon as possible, as it has been a member of NATO since 2009. However, this is something else, because the reason why this protocol and the protocol were introduced to the Hungarian Parliament today is because it is a long-standing treaty and there is a new Member State that has not signed it, and Croatia, which entered the European Union later, became a member of the European Union later than this cooperation agreement between the Member States of the European Union and Albania was concluded. At the time of its accession, Croatia undertook to accept and accede to these treaties itself, and these accessions must be accepted by the parliaments of all the countries. That's what's happening right now. Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Árpád Potápi State Secretary if he wishes to respond. [[Árpád János Potápi says no.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on certain legislative amendments necessary to increase national competitiveness will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/17571. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. [[Dr. Zsuzsanna Vályos' microphone is not provided.]] We'll wait for you, Madam Secretary, feel free to prepare, no problem. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vítalos puts up his microphone.]]
u2017-10-03-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, From 1 July, the first step of the government's "Easy Utility" program was to free public utility connections. The exemption covered three sectors: electricity, gas, water, including drinking water and sewage. Legal aid can be used not only by the population but also by small and medium-sized enterprises. The discount applies not only to newly built real estate, but also to subsequent connection to the public utility network, i.e. it can also be used for the construction and conversion of residential property or business premises. In addition to the introduction of a fee exemption, administrative deadlines for connection to utilities have been radically reduced and, where this was not specified, short deadlines for distributors have been set. As the second step of the programme, the government broke the monopoly of distributors with regard to utilities from 1 September. From now on, a wide range of entrepreneurs can work to build public utility connections, not just distribution companies or their subcontractors. The government has activated the list of electricians and plumbers. Businesses with appropriate expertise, skills and experience may apply to the register. These forms, where entrepreneurs can submit their applications, are available in government windows or government offices and can be submitted there. From the first day of the introduction of the measure, the number of requests for public utility connections started to rise sharply. According to available data, from 1 July nearly HUF 1.5 billion remained in Hungarian families, as well as small and medium-sized enterprises who initiated the connection of gas to new real estate or to existing real estate. In addition, in the first two months of the programme, they did not have to pay HUF 400 million for the connection of electricity and stayed with them for more than HUF 100 million for the connection to water. In the months of July and August, i.e. in two months, there was a total savings of HUF 2 billion in the family, in the case of the connection of gas, electricity, drinking water and sewers by the government. The records of electricians and plumbers were able to start sooner than expected. Instead of the eight days prescribed, the Government Office will assess these requests within a day or two. There is no deadline for application, the list can be found on the website of the Budapest Government Office. The register is updated daily, and consumers can already look for entrepreneurs. The T/17571 on certain amendments to the laws that have now been submitted to Parliament to increase national competitiveness. Legislative proposal No. 1 is part of a new legislative package, whose main objective is to speed up public utility licensing. The bill contains four laws, LXXVIII of 1997 on the formation and protection of the built environment. Act LXXXVI of 2007 on electricity Act XL of 2008 on gas supply. Law and CCIX 2011 on water utility services. amends the law. In accordance with the amendment of the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment, where a declaration, consent or approval by a public space owner is required for the establishment or renewal of a distribution line or distribution network in relation to the use, resolution of the public area and the distributor does not receive a meaningful reply within eight days, the consent or approval shall be deemed to be granted. The amendment is intended to significantly accelerate the implementation of the network connection, as in many cases the declaration of the owner of the public area significantly prolongs the process and encourages the owner of the public area to comply with the procedural deadlines. The amendment of the Electricity Act proposes to speed up the implementation of network connections by allowing a new low-voltage distribution network by distribution licensees to be put in place in a simpler and faster procedure if the conditions set out therein are met, so that operational and safety requirements are met. [[12.50]] Construction procedures on the mid-voltage network are also simplified where only a smaller public area and an area of the user's own property need to be used for work in order to satisfy the user's needs. The proposal complements the regulation by providing for the use of a trail of previously established and wired distribution networks for a new installation in order to accelerate the deployment process. This provision greatly accelerates the process of establishing accession. On the basis of an amendment to the Gas Supply Act, the replacement of gas consuming appliances would be excluded from the scope of the technical security review. The replacements are a routine design task and do not require the control of natural gas distributors. In the event of a change of equipment, the designer shall carry out the technical and safety verification of the installation, thereby limiting liability to the actors involved in the process. The designer is qualified for this task by a detailed knowledge of his tertiary qualification, his professional experience, gas regulations and plans for the replacement of appliances for gas consumption. In addition, the technical and safety review of coupling lines and user equipment would be cancelled on the basis of the legislative amendment, given that this does not work in practice. The technical and safety review is intended to protect users from hazards related to air supply, combustion product conduction and the decompression of gas pipelines and their joints. In the meantime, the legislation on chimney sweeps and practice have changed: every two years, the chimney sweep checks the air supply and the flue-gas discharge. On the other hand, the risks associated with the lack of compaction of gas pipelines and their joints persist in places of use where the owner does not comply with his ordering obligation. On the basis of the amendment, a new service would be introduced instead of a technical and safety review, whereby the natural gas distributor would be obliged to check gas compaction on connection lines and consumer pipelines every 10 years by means of leakage checks. In this way, gas pipelines operating within real estate will be able to prevent the risks arising from gas leakage throughout the user community, thus ensuring not only the safety of property owners but also the safety of people living in their environment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-03-64	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-10-03-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports this proposed bill because it accelerates and facilitates the connection of utilities. The Parliament concerns four laws, seven government regulations and two ministerial decrees. It should be pointed out that the legislative package was preceded by extensive professional consultation. The legislative changes were also known and supported by the Energy Office, the Chamber of Engineers and the relevant distributors. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The Fidesz Group agrees with the main objectives of the bill. One of the main objectives is to increase competitiveness. The second is to ensure faster, simpler connections to public utilities. Let us see what major changes will occur if the bill is adopted. On the basis of the proposal, with the help of the amendments, the electricity connection process will be shortened by about 90 days; the gas connection process will be shorter by about 30 days. No authorisation procedure shall be required for the establishment, operation, use and termination of a medium or low voltage distribution network if it meets the conditions laid down, for example, the owners of the private areas affected by the construction have made an irrevocable contribution to its placement. It also accelerates the connection process by the fact that if a declaration, consent or approval of the owner of the public area is required for the establishment or renewal of a distribution line or distribution network in relation to the use, resolution of the public area and the distributor does not receive a meaningful reply within eight days, the contribution shall be deemed to be granted in the future. There will also be an important change in the fact that, in the case of construction on foreign real estate, the amount of compensation payable will be lodged in court and the procedure will be accelerated here, also in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now discussing a proposal that will increase our national competitiveness, make utility connections simpler and faster. We believe that these are objectives that must be supported and supported, not only by the parties to government, but also by the opposition. The Fidesz Group therefore supports the proposed bill, because we believe that these goals are for the benefit of the people and for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-03-66	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Thank you very much for the speaker's speech. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács, to whom I give the floor. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The introduction that we have heard, what you said as the rapporteur's proposal, and a few criticisms about the previous keynote speech, however, must be given. It makes connection to public utilities easier, that's what the law is about, and that's what Fidesz's lead speaker said. It probably is, however, but the amendment of certain laws on the label and, as its main objective, which are necessary to increase competitiveness... - I think that this will be very little to increase competitiveness. In order to increase competitiveness, structural and economic structural changes should be made, including those that Fidesz has inherited, in fact, the economic policy of Fidesz, which, in its own autocratic leadership, of course, has developed in today's economic competition in Hungary. So I am sure that all of these structural or precisely created competitive disadvantages will not be successfully overcome by promoting public works at any level. This is good for one thing: we've found what you're looking for in this. This is good for Hungary's ability to climb up a bit on the list of World Bank Doing Business, where competitiveness is measured according to these points, with nothing to be proud of in terms of competitiveness in the European Union. I think we should be blushing about this. In the 28 Member States we were the 25th last year, this year we may be able to climb to the 24th place in the 28 Member States. However much more you add to this question, I think it may be worth supporting again. However, we would like to continue to encourage the government to remove certain obstacles to economic life from the autocratic leadership of the governing party, or to remedy possible structural economic problems, and thus try to improve competitiveness. Of course, if the importance of public works is so appreciated in this regard, they should also act quickly, but we believe that they should act carefully. We can see that there has been similar legislation in the spring. At the time, we were just saying that these laws had not been properly thought out, and it seems that this current amending package is actually opening up the provisions of this previous legislation now either more or correcting its errors. [[13.00]] So from this you can see that all of our criticisms about the inadequate preparation of this legislation are correct. I think that we should strive for competitiveness, not just by administrative measures, so that both industrial consumers and retail consumers can get energy cheaper. Do not buffer the difference between energy prices on the world market and the energy prices available in Hungary at the distribution companies in Hungary; do not divide them in their accounts; do not otherwise become the owner of this company, but give them to the Hungarians. There really should be a real reduction in the costs, and we have calculated this, which could be reduced by 20-21 percent, otherwise, by monitoring global trends, the price of energy. This would probably contribute more to increasing competitiveness than the fact that these utilities will now be subject to cheaper access. I'm not saying I don't, but I think it's a little overrated right now. I would like to add one more thing that Mónika Dunai said, and for once I would like to praise the government in this. We had such an argument once today, he said that there was a wide-ranging professional discussion. They'll end up doing it right. When all of a sudden we don't have to believe that one of the MPs on a rainy afternoon was thinking about how to fix the Hungarian media market or anything, and at home he typed an individual representative's motion on the computer, that if we don't have to believe that, but if the government does make a presentation, then they do the professional consultation, and in the end even the service providers know what's going to happen, then it might even be a good thing. It is not yet certain that competitiveness is involved, and there is no confidence in it, because you still do not believe that this is how you will always do it, but this was not fundamentally a bad step if this actually happened. I suggest we continue like this. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-10-03-68	Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy enters and takes a seat in the Chamber.]] Congressman, I hope Congressman's coming in didn't disturb you. [[Dr. László Kács: No.]] Good. Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance, although I did not intend to give this speech as a speaker for too long, but I would like to make it clear that the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary can support the proposal aimed at facilitating public utility connections, and seeks to remove administrative barriers to this with this amendment proposal. It is always very important to think about whether the revenue thus lost is being replaced or how and how they are compensated, since it is a fundamental problem for Hungarian utilities that the normal maintenance work has been stalled for years. The ageing drinking water network, the public utility network in many places, in many settlements, has ongoing problems with pipe breaks, these are replaced by stages, there are no comprehensive investments or adequate resources, and this is also annoying consumers, because from time to time the supply of drinking water or other public utilities depends on which utility is involved. Of course, it is in itself that the undertaking which carries out the connection work in question should have adequate liability insurance and should be included in the register kept by the technical safety authority, which is good and should be supported. They must have insurance covering up to a minimum of HUF 1 million from 1 September, this is indeed a useful measure and a useful initiative. I don't think there's ever been a dispute about the usefulness of this before. As well as the fact that if public land is used either by road subdivision or by other means, and if the competent authority does not make a statement within eight days, its consent shall be deemed to have been granted, as that is why these investments and these works have often been carried out. It is very important that society and the Hungarian families, the Hungarian people, should benefit from such legislative proposals, and if the aim is to reduce or eliminate the connection charges in the utilities networks, it should indeed be with the Hungarian families, and it should not happen that what they have won in the gap is lost at customs, i.e. that the amount that is saved here, either during construction work or during other licensing procedures, will be recovered from elsewhere. Of course, we will also pay attention to this every time a new bill comes before the Parliament, so that it does not happen. Of course, in terms of both drinking water and gas and electricity utilities, there is a real need for further improvements in public utility capacity and for those who may not be able to afford it financially to meet the conditions in which they can connect to the public utility network, since a decade-long problem must be eliminated, a decade-long lag in this respect. As I mentioned at the outset, I do not want to say much about this bill in detail, because we could support the points of each amendment individually, because each of them contains a fundamentally positive proposal, so it is obvious that we will support the bill in general. After all, for several years these investments, whether for works or for public works, or for investments in public works, have been expected to get a little momentum, and indeed there must be such a degree of public utility connection for new real estate, of course, and for existing real estates - whether for private or public purposes - which already allows, when it comes to, say, drinking water or water utilities, the environmental and soil protection aspects to be adequately met where possible. I mean, let's just say that there is not always the possibility to do so in the construction of sewage pipes, no matter how cheap or free the connection is, these problems may exist either on a geographical basis or on another basis, where, of course, home-made local utility equipment and individual equipment can be a solution. That's not what this bill is about. I'm just going to mention it by the way. We will establish our final position on the possible amendments, as it has often occurred before the final vote in this House, that the proposal has changed in a number of points or even in the full text of the proposal. But now, in his present state, I think he's eligible for us. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, Eszter Vályos, if she wishes to make a final statement. [[Dr. Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitályos: No.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I would like to inform the House that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1991 XLI on notaries. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by János Lázár, Imre Vas and István Vitányi, our Fidesz fellow Members, T/17267. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. It's got a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the notary participates in legal life in all areas of private law practice, apart from traditional notary activities. Our goal is for the notary to regain its old authority in all respects and to re-establish its place among the law-abiding public to the full satisfaction of the law-seeking public. The institution of the notary appeared in our country during the reign of our Anjou-house kings, and after the Mohács emergency it reappeared only in the sad but fruitful period of legal development after 1849. On 7 February 1858 the Austrian notary order of 1855 was extended to Hungary. The order did not have time to root in the Hungarian soil, because in 1861 the Marshals' Conference repealed it. [[13.10]] The re-introduction of the institution of the notary in the Parliament after a long debate on the royal notary adopted in 1874 XXXV. of 1874. It was done by law. This Act defined the jurisdiction of notaries as, I quote, the jurisdiction of the notary covers the territory of the royal court on which the seat assigned to it is situated. However, the powers of the notaries in Budapest extend to the royal courts in Pest, Buda and Pest. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. After 1949, the former private notary institution ceased to exist, the notaries and deputy notaries were public service posts, the notaries operated in favour of the district court, and the notaries appointed to the metropolitan district courts worked in the office of the Budapest State notaries' Office since 1956. Their competence extended throughout the capital. Communist-Bolshevist legislation has thus created the existing distinction between notaries in Budapest and the countryside in terms of their competence. In the history of the Hungarian notary, the 1991 XLI. Law brought about a turnaround, restoring the institution of the Latin-type notary. The legislation after the change of regime reached back to the historical traditions when re-regulation of the notary institution, but the law adopted at that time left some elements of dictatorial legislation. One of these residual elements was the regulation of the competence of notaries. The determination of the historical notary competence, which has always been adapted to the jurisdiction of the Royal Court, has fallen to the district level based on socialist legislation. The legislation after the change of regime unfortunately maintained this unfair situation for rural notaries and continued to act only in the area of jurisdiction of the district court in which they were established. In the case of notaries operating in Budapest, there was no change in the XXXVI of 1878. Since then, they have been able to act uniformly throughout Budapest. In the case of notaries in the capital city, therefore, the definition of the area of competence was based on the established historical roots. Under the current rules, the notary's area of competence is adapted to the district court in whose territory the notary is established. However, in the case of notaries operating in the territory of Budapest, this rule has been breakthroughd in the fact that the jurisdiction of notaries operating in Budapest is not adapted to the district district court of the seat, but extends to the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Tribunal. This proposal for an amendment would harmonise the differentiated notary competence under the existing legislation on notaries. According to the amending proposal, the area of competence of the notary corresponds to the area of competence of the court in whose jurisdiction notaries have their seat registered by the regional chamber. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, The regulation contained in the amendment therefore goes back to the historical traditions described and extends the rules of competence already applied and well-functioning for notaries in Budapest to notaries outside Budapest. Under the amending proposal, the rules are in line with the 2016 CXXX on the Civil Procedure, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018. also to the law that, by default, cases fall within the jurisdiction of the court and appear only as an exception in the jurisdiction of the court. The proposal restores the authority of the members of the notary profession operating outside the capital and brings them back to the level to which the established history of law has always placed them. In addition, the amending proposal also establishes the territorial definition of competence for the chambers of notaries and the identity of the area of competence of the members of the chamber's notaries. The amending proposal creates equality between notaries as regards their area of operation. The amending proposal ensures the territorial expansion of trust notary procedures and aims to further improve the quality of services. In addition, the amendment also provides for a more proportionate distribution of the burden on notaries and the possibilities for action. Dear House, It is important to point out that the proposal aims at broadening the competence of drafting documents. The proposal does not require changes to the rules of competence of probate procedures, order procedures for payment and enforcement procedures, which may continue to be subject to notaries under the rules laid down by law and regulations. Under the current rules, the notary may open a sub-office in its area of competence. If the individual amendment is voted by the Parliament, the possibility of opening an office will automatically extend throughout the county, no special rule is required. The opening of the sub-office is still an option, right and not an obligation, and this regulatory principle should be maintained. During the preliminary discussions with the Ministry of Justice, a technical argument was raised with regard to the sub-offices to avoid the notary neglecting the population of the seat in which it was appointed and dealing only with its sub-office to be opened in the county seat or metropolitan city. In order to prevent this, the Minister of Justice decree may provide that a notary who opens a suboffice must keep the office of his seat open for customer reception for the same duration as he has done so far. If you maintain a head office and a suboffice, you may even be obliged to hire a deputy notary and to provide technical solutions of the same quality as both offices, as this is in the interest of the law-seeking customers. Dear House, I would ask this House or my fellow Members to support and vote on the proposal for an amendment by their individual representatives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Imre Vas. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 1994 XLI on notaries. The adoption of a law was a significant event in the life of the Hungarian notary. The private notary profession, which was abolished by socialist legislation in 1949, could regain its unfairly lost authority among the legal professions. Since their two decades of reorganization, notaries have once again become indispensable actors of public credibility and public confidence for law-seeking citizens. Their activities are reflected in almost all areas of private law practice. The notaries already played a significant role in the Middle Ages by means of document drafting and certification of declarations. The legal basis of the now established notary institution is XXV of 1874. They were laid down by law, the law regulated the rules and conditions of the notary's operation in detail. The law adjusted the limits of competence of the notary's operation to the court of the notary's seat. With socialist-communist legislation in 1849 The authority of the notary profession has ceased, which has been well reflected by the change in the jurisdiction rules, the fact that the competence of the rural notaries has been reduced compared to the previous level of application, while the jurisdiction of the metropolitan notaries has remained in the area of forensic and capital court jurisdiction, and their competence has been extended to the entire territory of the capital. [[13.20]] Unfortunately, the re-regulation of the notary's institution at the time of the change of regime has failed to restore this authority in the case of rural notaries, which would be based on the competence of their proceedings. In the debate of the law at the time, however, it was suggested that the territorial definition of jurisdiction according to historical traditions should be restored with regard to rural notaries, i.e. that the area of their proceedings should be adapted to the former court, that is, the county courts at that time. Unfortunately, this has not been done, despite the fact that there has not been a valid counterargument. Thus, rural notaries remained within the limits of competence defined by socialist-communist legislation. In keeping the authority of the notary institution, it is necessary to adopt the bill before us in order to standardise unreasonably differentiated rules of competence. The amending proposal creates equality between notaries as regards their area of operation, disappears the distinction so far between notaries in Budapest and in rural areas, and it is also an important element of the amendment proposal to broaden the territorial boundaries of the trust notary service, adapted to the expectations of the present time and to the mobility of customers. The amendment provides an opportunity for a more proportionate distribution of the workload between notaries. It should be noted that the proposal essentially concerns the activities of notaries for the drafting, verification and certification of documents, and does not alter the competence of the succession proceedings, as well as the payment order procedures and the rules of competence of enforcement procedures initiated under the order for payment procedure, which may continue to be carried out by notaries under the rules laid down in the law or regulations. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] (Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat) Replaced by László Földi.)
u2017-10-03-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that Fidesz's expert who wrote his speech to my fellow Member, Mr Vitányi, and to my fellow Member, Mr Vas [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] , he has a serious interest in the history of law, it was about the same text, and although I listened to it with interest, such a speech would rather be held at a conference in the history of law than here in the National Assembly when explaining such a proposal. I suggest that this expert colleague should take advantage of his interest in this next time a special issue of a Law History Review appears during a notary festival, as he has now appeared in the OBH's care of the thematic copy of the courts. The problem is that while, once again, we listened to an extremely interesting history lecture, there was no mention of the important issues which, on the other hand, should be included in the parliamentary debate of an individual MEP's motion. For example, it would have been much more interesting to find out why this law was being presented now, why János Lázár would be submitting this law, because although I have an extraordinary appreciation for my fellow Member Vitányi, it is clear from the story of the text that János Lázár submitted this law, and then my fellow Member joined him, obviously because Minister Lazarus does not have time to present his own bill in front of Parliament, so that another Member formally joins it and then reads what the expert wrote to him. It's okay, it's okay, but if that was the case, at least he would've told me about it. Mr Vitányi, why Mr Lázár submitted this, or why you joined him. Then I would be very interested in the fact that, even from the point of view of the authors, the Ministry, if they have already amended the Law on notaries, why they are not doing so in the package of laws that are also in front of the House, we have not yet voted on it, they are running in parallel, and both are about notaries, one is submitted by the government and the other is discussed in the framework of an individual motion. This is also extremely interesting. And what is the only relevant comment we've received on the grounds for submitting the bill? I can put it about the same way that it used to be, so let's do it today. Is that an argument, fellow Members? Is that, really, really? That it used to be like that, should it be that way now? But why? The congressman tells us that he's restoring the authority of notaries. My fellow Members, let us not talk nonsense; what is the scope of a notary's authority to do with his authority? What the hell does notoriety have to do with the fact that it can operate all over the district, work only in one city, in a county or in the whole country? ! It's a matter of regulation. Even so, he has no loss of authority, and he will have no greater authority if the territory he is in becomes greater. I would also like to know if the Member could explain what he was thinking here when he spoke about the authority of notaries in connection with this proposal. Well, how do I put this? - on these two topics. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] because, by the way, we have not received any other arguments as to how this bill gets here and why. This is all the more interesting, because when Fidesz MEPs put forward individual proposals, two things immediately make you think. One is that there is a good chance that administrative negotiations can be saved, and the other, especially if János Lázár submits the individual interests of this bill. And to avoid being just malicious about it, I would like to put it on the table here because I simply wanted to see if there is a tender in the area where János Lázár lives and is a representative - and how interesting it is: an application has just been issued for a notary post in Hódmezővásárhely. Is there no other way to pay a friend, a buddy, but this? [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] I don't know, I don't know. To be honest, the problem is that they've had so many personalised legislative attempts in the past period, how do I put it? - you don't believe it's not true if it isn't. And these coincidences even more suggest that this is something like this. By the way, why the hell would a Chancellor submit an individual motion for a notary law? ! Why doesn't the government file it, Congressman? Why is John Lazarus a representative? Why is it not related to the law that is before this House and which has been submitted by the Minister of Justice? That's one part of it, and here I'm just talking about bad feelings. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] As far as we're concerned... I don't know what you're mumbling, Congressman. 'Cause please, you can either shout it louder so I can hear it, or you can press a button and tell me - that's not good. I don't have a problem with yelling, just let me hear it. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Political problems...]] [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] As far as we're concerned... I don't know what you're mumbling, Congressman. 'Cause please, you can either shout it louder so I can hear it, or you can press a button and tell me - that's not good. I don't have a problem with yelling, just let me hear it. (Dr. Gábor Staudt: Political problems...) Yeah, political problems? ! (Dr. István Vitányi intervenes. ) Yeah, well, that's what's really going on with this proposal. [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] As far as we're concerned... I don't know what you're mumbling, Congressman. 'Cause please, you can either shout it louder so I can hear it, or you can press a button and tell me - that's not good. I don't have a problem with yelling, just let me hear it. (Dr. Gábor Staudt: Political problems...) Yeah, political problems? ! (Dr. István Vitányi intervenes. ) Yeah, well, that's what's really going on with this proposal. (Dr. István Vitányi intervenes. - The president's ringing. ) Now, you see, Congressman, this is an interesting thing. If you don't have an argument, you're going to come up with a general political issue. Tell me, please, Congressman, give me a two-minute push, do me a favor, what the hell does László Botka have to do with it (Dr. István Vitányi interrupts.) To this law! How do you make each other nervous? I think that there would be a level of debate that would not be worth undermining, Mr Congressman, and, of course, you can even bring the Czegledy case here, and even the case of Gábor Simon, that has nothing to do with it. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] Let's get this over with. I can tell you that there was one more reason for Budapest to have a good example. Well, there is no good example of Budapest, honourable Member, not at all! The notaries of Budapest do not like this system at all, which is here. So if there is to be a change, what should be done is to shape Budapest for rural regulation rather than rural regulation for the wrong system in Budapest. That's what I can say. But there was at least one argument here that we say that, although, of course, from an administrative point of view, Budapest is a county, it is also a single city. So if there are specific rules here, then it is understandable that it is legally a county, but we are actually talking about a big city. But once again, the system here doesn't take credit for the notary. [[13.30]] I would like to say that the bigger problem, if we are to remain principled, is that there should be no competition in the first place and there should be undesirable competition between notaries. And you're practically creating competition with this. A profession in which a person carries out an activity of an official nature has no place for competition; in the case of a notary, it is in the case of lawyers. This is where we get to what I said at the Justice Committee meeting, that today's regulation is not good and bad, which has been established and thanks to the notary lobby, that notaries are exercising a number of functions in Hungary today that should otherwise be done by lawyers. The correct solution would not be to perform a symptomatic treatment of a bad system, even if I ignore the fact that it is likely to be personalised again. Let's just say it's a client's interest, although they didn't say a word about why it's a client's interest, but I'm sure it's one of those things. If this is the case, then it is not the symptomatic treatment that is right, but the question of what falls within the competence of notaries and us as lawyers, and we refer to the powers of lawyers which, if you like, have the right to have in the framework of the market operation, and then everyone is free to choose a lawyer they want, and the citizen of Hódmezővásárhely can freely choose a lawyer in Nyíregyháza or Vas county. It's okay, it's the competition. But where a person exercises authority, it is particularly harmful. It's extremely harmful, and think of one thing, and let me give you an example. Perhaps the most critical and clearly understandable: if notary notaries, say, in the county area, and banks conclude contracts with a notary office or certain notary offices, then those banks will provide a significant source of income to the notary. And the notary's job would be to represent the interests of both banks and clients, right? If I get the money from the bank, and I get a lot of money, a whole county, let's say, a bank's branch network will be run by a notary office. [[Dr. István Vitányi: That's true now, isn't it?]] In cases where there is a conflict between the bank and the client, how can a notary be expected to act objectively and not in the interest of the bank? For example, in the case of a failed loan, how can you expect it? I think that these anomalies will only increase when this law comes into force, and this will not only be true in Budapest, but throughout the country. [[Dr. István Vitányi: Only in Budapest.]] Yes, only in Budapest, honourable Member, it would be a good thing, and I would very much like to sign a motion with you, even jointly, to end this practice in Budapest, and then it will be united throughout the country. I am not an enemy of the countryside because I am a member of Budapest, but I say that there should be one regulation, but in the right direction, not in the wrong, not from bad experience and bad practice, let us move elements into another, but vice versa, correct what is wrong. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is my problem in principle with this proposal, so we cannot support it either because, in our view, there is a good chance that one of János Lázár's buddies will be put in the position again, and that is why we need this regulation. On the other hand, I see quite simply that for years, decades, the system of notary-lawyer relations has been misinterpreted, as far as the legislation is concerned, and instead of amending it, you are trying to resolve the wrong system, and in this case, even in the wrong direction, so we will certainly not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-03-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We have already started the debate on this bill in the Judicial Committee, and the following week it has not come before the House. I believe that certain negotiations had to be carried out, which in itself is not a problem, of course, if the petitioners have been consulted on a bill. At that time, it was not yet possible to know how the profession was involved or how notaries would accept this proposal. I thought there, at the committee meeting, that they would certainly be supported, or that this would be an opportunity for them. It is true that there was a debate about how much closer the notary profession is to the competition sphere with this decision, and how much closer the existing system in Budapest, which considers Budapest to be a county unit, can be used by notaries on a forensic level throughout the territory of Budapest, while it is not so in the countryside or outside Budapest. Well, it raises a dilemma whether, if this is the case in Budapest and not outside of Budapest, something must be done or what can be done, whether the system in Budapest must be abolished, or whether the rural one must be converted to Budapest, or nothing needs to be done at all. But it didn't occur to me that the notaries might not support this system. For if it can be the basic starting point, the basic assumption is that it is also beneficial for them to move towards the competition sphere, another question is whether the legislator should be able to do so or not. I have now consulted my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, who has given me the information that, to his knowledge, this has not been fully agreed with the notary chamber, of course I expect the rapporteur's reply in this regard, because the information, as you can see, is not so deep - I can be quite honest - but I am not the author of this proposal; the impact assessment is not expected from the opposition. Obviously, all we can do is look into it on our own terms and see how the profession is doing. This was a bit shocking to me, which I heard from my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, that the National notary Chamber, either in response to the reply, or the notaries in the circle of acquaintance, said that they did not necessarily agree with this either. Then, obviously, there may be people who are, but I think we should clear this up. Why am I saying this? Because at the committee meeting, we started from what I said was good for notaries, and they have to be more or less behind him. It was also said, which was certainly a concern, and there was less mention of it than the issue of foreign exchange loans, although I and Jobbik have repeatedly said that the procedure of notaries and the lack of compliance of notaries with laws with banks could have contributed to the foreign exchange situation in Hungary. It is true that notaries did, of course, make it possible to have foreign exchange-based loans in Hungary. It took the Parliament's decision. By the way, it may have been Mihály Varga who put this forward at the time, or it was during the first Fidesz government, if my memories are good. Then the banks started using this facility, and then, of course, they started using it in a twisted way, but what is important is that even these foreign exchange credit contracts did not comply with the relevant legislation. This contained clauses not only with option rights, but also with the parentheses of judicial proceedings, and in exchange for immediate enforceability, they had to be incorporated into authentic documents - in fact, notaries included everything that came from the legal classes of banks, without criticism. [[13.40]] All they did was read it out loud to the clients and tell them what the consequences could be. But I don't know anything - I hope there was one, but I don't know about it - that notary would have said that this kind bank, this contract you sent, doesn't comply with Hungarian law, I refuse to sign it, and I refuse to give my name to it. Since then, however, these contracts and these clauses could have been different in court, and I would not agree that the decisions of the Curia and the Constitutional Court, apart from the fact that we still have many criticisms of the decisions of the Curia, and the Constitutional Court could have decided otherwise, but one thing is certain that on a number of terms which were mass-traveled before notaries, the decision-making bodies later said that they did not comply with the laws in force. How, then, did the well-trained notaries let this through by mass, and had nothing to add? If that were not enough, you should practically ask for it and look into it: in the practice of executions, there was also a situation where what the bank asked for was included in the public document for the notary's announcement. So when the bank said that it had resigned and that it had declared in a notary document that it had terminated these credit contracts and had included the amount, so according to the bank's calculations, how much the client still owes, it was included in the notary's authentic instrument. He did not ask for the presentation of background documents, he did not ask for proof of this; in many cases, he did not even ask for the presentation of whether the customer had been properly notified or, in the case of unilateral contractual amendments, if there was any possibility of the bank making unilateral changes to the contract, he had notified the client. Because just because it's a one-sided treaty amendment doesn't mean the obligation to provide information is the same. In many cases, the banks did not do this, the notaries did not ask for it, they did not check it, the authentic instruments were born, and after the often illegal foreign currency credit agreements, after the often illegal and equally authentic announcements, the execution could begin practically immediately with the closing of court proceedings. So this system, which I have to say, could be called the bankruptcy of the rule of law, which happened around foreign exchange loans in Hungary, and is still practically still not closed, although the majority of the governor is trying to pretend that it has been completely resolved; well, unfortunately, this was a cornerstone of the Hungarian notary, and he could not resist the pressure of banks, he could not resist making only decisions that were in line with the law, and when he made a fact in authentic documents, to make sure that it was in fact correct. In this way, a legislative forum, the main legislative forum, such as Parliament, would be the minimum if it responded to this situation. Of course, it can also be said that notaries could have been held personally responsible in more extreme cases. That could have been done. Those who demand this are not far from reality, for if a notary of lawlessness is incorporated into an authentic instrument, it has or should have the consequences of disciplinary and legal action, since sanctions are in use. But what then, and now let us be even more lenient if we say that the error was in the system, because the notaries may have thought that all the scriptures coming from the banks and we think they were so naive, but then the legislative power, so this Parliament, should change the laws and rule out that this could happen at another time in the future. Why did I tell you this here? My dilemma in this regard continues to be - and this has been said at the committee meeting - that in many cases was not the case, and we have also seen in foreign exchange loans that the client has chosen the notary. It wasn't that, oh, I know a very nice notary, dear bank, then send over that contract, but the bank worked with the notary and sent the client to the notary. There wasn't much else the client could do. Think of the situation. He's not a lawyer, but he's got clients with a law degree in a beat-up situation. I, too, have argued so clearly in the bank about anti-law banking regulations, and there was absolutely no chance that I would convince the administrator. But anyone who doesn't even know the law and is told that they have to go to this and this notary will not think that they can choose another notary, he has the opportunity to appoint the notary or get the bank to do so. But even if you know you have this chance, I'll tell you what. They say in the bank that we're working with this notary, please, if you like it, go over there, sign, if you don't like it, they're standing in line with you, who would like to take out a loan. In the countryside, however, this situation is even more vulnerable, fewer branches are available, fewer opportunities are available. I also have to tell you that there is a danger in this - and, as I said, I thought at least the notaries were in favour of it; we would have had controversial points, but there is a danger in that - that if there had been notaries or there were certain, so I would not like to say that there were no notaries who did not reject banks, even though I did not know about it, they were certain, so let us give you the opportunity, but if, say, in a county, the bank finds a notary who appreciates Hungarian legislation more flexibly, then it will certainly take all the contracts there. If the first notary tells him that it's a nice bank, it should be rewritten, it doesn't comply with the law, let's think about it again, then he'll blab to the next notary and say, if any, that he's a nice notary, would be five clients a day, do you think he'll comply with the law? Maybe he scratches his head and says, eventually, dear bank, now that you mention it - how much did he say? 5 clients a day with HUF 40,000, say HUF 200,000 a day - well, it may actually be in compliance with Hungarian legislation and it can be interpreted so widely. So my concern remains, and, obviously, from the present proposal, we should also ask for a screening of the whole notary system, and please, and I am glad that Mr Secretary of State is here. So we would like to see - perhaps this was a word in the wilderness, but I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State - that the anomalies that have been crystallized in the course of foreign exchange lending, but which have already existed in connection with the activities of notaries, should be clearly put in place and properly regulated by law, because without these rules, similar rules of jurisdiction, raise doubts as to whether it will go well. By the way, if there were a system in which notaries are properly accountable, I would say that I would not consider it devilial, even this amendment to the rules of jurisdiction. But I stress that with these previous bad experiences, we have a deep concern, a deep dilemma, which I think should be bridged in the first round by at least getting to know the views of the National notary Chamber or the regional chambers. If this has not happened before, then I think that we can still do so, perhaps time is not so urgent with the adoption of this proposal. And although it is a motion for individual representatives, I think the Ministry of Justice will be a partner in the possibility of formally asking for it. Obviously, I'm looking around the room again from opposition, thinking that maybe you'll be a partner in asking for a detailed opinion of the regional chamber and, most importantly, the National notary Chamber. I think this will come in quickly, and then, in the case of the negotiation of this proposal, when you have to press a button as a Member of Parliament, you will be in a better position. I think it must be done if we are to make a good law. At the same time, I look forward to the answers to the questions raised. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have a two-minute speech. I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Congressman Vas Imre. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-79	Thank you very much. I'm glad Congressman Barondy came in. I'm sure Congressman knows it's the new PP. It will enter into force on 1 January 2018, and as a surprise, this bill will also enter into force on 1 January 2018. That's why the answer to the question is now. [[13.50]] I would say to my fellow Member that we adopted T/16818 this morning. Bill No.1, which was an amendment to the notary law for harmonisation purposes. This was submitted later by Mr Lazarus, and it could not be tabled as an amendment because it would have been an over-extensive amendment if it had been submitted to him. So that's why we have to regulate it in a separate law. Returning to Pp: Congressman knows that the new Pp. According to its rules, the general jurisdiction is the court, so the exceptional jurisdiction will be the district courts or the district courts in the capital. And while Budapest law seekers, if you have to go, you can choose from 77 notaries, while if I count correctly, there are more than ten district courts where there is only one notary, and if that notary is not available for anything, then they can't handle their affairs. For example, there are six notary posts in the county of Nógrád. I think it's all loaded there, so there are six major notaries. So rural citizens are still in a worse situation in this regard. On the other hand, the European Court of Justice has stated that notary is not an official activity, which is why we voted today on this bill. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. We'll continue with the two-minutes. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, from the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Then let us amend the law, because at the moment this activity is considered to be an activity in Hungary. I understand that the direction in Europe is different, but then perhaps the Hungarian legal system should be adapted. Or if this is an official activity in the Hungarian legal system, then they should adapt to the additional legislation that we are submitting. The other argument you've given me is how many notaries you can go to, and I think it doesn't depend on the area of competence, it depends on the number of notaries. It is worth raising the number of notaries when there is such a demand. In addition to today's regulations, anyone can go to any notary. If you want to edit a document or hire a notary in any procedure, then, of course, he can visit a notary in any city in any county. This is about where the notary goes and where he doesn't go. That's why I've been living with the suspicion lawsuit that unfortunately it's been designed for something like banks or other big companies, where the practice is that the notary goes into the drawer, not from the drawer to the notary. So far, of course, they have not been able to act, so they can now act. But the fact that a citizen can reach out to any notary with his problem and trust him is the case. So the arguments that Congressman Vas has made in this regard do not justify the need for the law, because anyone can still be approached today. And the fact that there are few notaries doesn't make any difference to this law, because that doesn't make it any more. Then we should set up notary posts, more than we have now, if there's such a need, although frankly, I've never heard of it. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-82	Thank you very much. Mr Staudt Gábor is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-83	Thank you very much. I think there's more argument going wrong here. There was an EU decision that we all know, which was the basis for today's other decision. It was our duty to open the possibility of becoming a notary to citizens within the EU on the basis of current legislation. But I would separate that from, as strange as it is that the Union makes such a decision. Another question is whether it would have been possible to change Hungarian legislation in such a way that we might have avoided it and transformed the system in such a way that it would indeed be a fully sovereign activity, but this is another issue of the theory of law. However, even if the Union has made such a decision and the market should be opened in theory, it is true that according to Hungarian law, an expression of state power is a good part of the notary activity, and compliance with the law must be guaranteed by the notary's activities. Of course, the fact that there may have been some eras in Hungary over the past few years when it has been overcrowded with a mass may raise the question of then throwing it all in the trash and having a business activity, but I think that we should insist that we set up a new system where the state can really expect notaries to reject banks under the law, and it is not about what kind of horror revenue a notary can gain if it is able to interact with banks on a regular basis. And not the client-notary relationship appears here - there is a parallel argument here too - but the notary-bank relationship. I would like to underline this once again that, in this regard - and this is the most delicate area - unfortunately, the banking client will not choose. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Gábor Staudt, in his speech to the main speaker, said our main arguments that, for the time being, if there are no convincing arguments from the other side, this bill should not be supported. Obviously, it is because, as far as we know, the Hungarian National Census Chamber did not support this, and it did not support it, to my knowledge, because, on the one hand, no impact studies were carried out, as to what this would mean. I think the authors thought that there was a need for an impact assessment, and what problems this could cause, and they did not attach any importance to it. But it is of great importance, in my opinion - we are obviously talking about the countryside and not about the capital - because the area of competence of notaries and the number of notaries operating there in the area of jurisdiction, in a district court, has been measured on a pharmacy scale. It was determined precisely in proportion to the number of inhabitants where notaries should be and how many notaries should be. This has worked well for the moment, there have been no interruptions in this, and this does not justify the inclusion of this bill. And the reason which mentions historical traditions is that this has ever been the 19th. I think the world has changed so much since then that this in itself is obviously not a reason to change a well-functioning system. My fellow Member Vas Imre raised the problem of what is there if there is only one notary in one district. Obviously, this was also the answer to the previous law on how to replace that notary. So there is no problem because the notary needs patient care, and, say, for six months in the area of jurisdiction of the district court of the White Colony, there will be no notary if, for example, there is such a problem. So I think that this alone does not justify it. However, the problem will be that if we are to upset the system so far in the countryside, this will mean that since the area of competence will extend to the whole county, as the new Pp. With its entry into force, this will be the case, so the jurisdiction of the notary will be the same as that of the courts, which obviously means that there will be movement within the county between notaries and notary offices. This will result in a competition between notaries in the market, a very serious competition in the market, which may also have consequences for a well-cool, richer-based office to take away the resources and financial resources of rural notaries. I think it is in no way good to put this on a fully market basis. Not to mention that this amendment also carries the potential for the development of corruption, as we extend the circle that, in any case - I hope that there is no such thing in Hungary - a notary should have financial interests in order for certain banks to entrust him with certain matters. [[14.00]] Thus, a larger office can cover all the banks in the county. I think that there is a very, very serious risk of corruption. At a time when Hungary is on the world list of corruption, when we are 24th in the European Union from 28 Member States, and in the last seven or seven-and-a-half years, the government has been able to achieve this in the first place, every year, to put Hungary back and forth in the world ranking of corruption, and at the moment, Hungary is already on the same level as Central African countries in the field of corruption, I would not think that legislation should broaden the possibility for corruption to spread even more widely in Hungary. (István Ikotity in the notary seat) Replaced by István Szávay.) That's one of the important reasons. The other is the obligation to provide a case. If the law of a notary extends to the whole county, its duty extends, which means that in larger counties, obviously, huge distances, where appropriate for a small cause, should be regularly travelled up to 200 kilometres back and forth. This is definitely at the expense of the job. This will bring less revenue to the notary, it will cost the notary more to the client, as you have to pay the notary's hourly fee, the withdrawal cost, you have to pay for the more expensive service you have ordered if you do it in the countryside than if you do it in the notary's office, which is quite obvious. So neither the notary's interest nor the client's interest. Not to mention, I'm telling you, you have to travel a serious hundred kilometers here, if necessary, when this has so far narrowed down to a district area, where these distances have been up to 15-20 kilometers. The third reason is that what has already been mentioned before me is the possibility of personal legislation, which we are obviously unable to prove in this case. But the possibility arose that it was requested by a notary who had good relations with Fidesz, because in his field of operation, according to the current rules of competence, to say the fish are scarce, and would like to have more fish, more opportunities. I'm sure you'll find someone who can help you with that from Fidesz. It is also common that this is the case in the present case. I think that we have not yet received any answers to these problems, and that we have not received a reassuring answer. And until we have the right answer to these problems, I think that this draft legislation cannot be supported. As long as we do not see it, there are no adequate impact studies on how it will change, how it will be possible for the case distribution to remain balanced, just as it has been fully balanced on the basis of this system, given the number of inhabitants, until we know, we do not know in detail the position of the National Public notary Chamber on this, the maladministration and drawbacks of this bill, in my view, this proposal cannot be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Vas Imre of Fidesz has applied for another speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-87	Yes, thank you very much. Just now, I couldn't afford two minutes to respond to my fellow Member, Barándy, to what lawyers and notaries can do now. There are countries in the European Union where lawyers cannot edit documents, for example, but only notaries can edit them. So I'm not sure it's absolutely necessary to take over. By the way, in Romania, it is believed that the drafting of documents is a notary task and that lawyers should go to court. I wouldn't necessarily take that as an example. We are obviously talking about matters of jurisdiction when the notary has to go, because today, too, if I want to authenticate a copy, I can go to Nyíregyháza, but it is not necessarily worth going from Budapest to Nyíregyháza. But in case you think about it, if there's a notary in the district court, and there's something to do in that area, say, making a will, and the person can't go to the notary, if that notary's busy, then it can't be done. I said, the option remains much smaller in the countryside, because there are not half as many notaries in Pest county as in Budapest. I would add that it was not possible to fully compensate for the difference in jurisdiction of the courts, to determine exactly how many notaries this court would require, because there is one, there is one, and there is two, but the two are many, and one is few. So it couldn't really be completely solved. Our proposal also significantly alleviates this problem. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-03-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I have two comments for what you just said. One of them is that I would be careful when I know that they have a habit, but they take out elements from other legal systems and compare them to the Hungarian system, or they try to transfer them to the Hungarian legal system on a given occasion. You know, the legal system is a complicated and coherent system, as it's also called. That's why it's useless to take a single element out of it, because it doesn't lead anywhere. I don't know how he's doing in Romania. But for example, I can imagine that if this system is there, say, in the same area, three times as many notaries are appointed because if the lawyers do not prepare the documents, because obviously the document making is the same demand as in Hungary, the entire portfolio is transferred to the notaries, then obviously we need more notaries. The only reason I'm saying this is because that's what we have to do with other parts of the legal system. In itself, the fact that there is such an example is an inconclusive argument for me. On the other hand, I still don't understand the logic of Congressman. If we expand the jurisdiction of notaries now, what will give him more time? 'Cause I think he's gonna have even less time. That doesn't make him a notary. If there's a notary in Balmazújváros right now, take this, and it doesn't have time now, then how long will it take you to go to the towns next door to do business? What makes the system better? What makes you more customer-friendly? What makes a notary less busy? Obviously, it is an increase in the number of notaries that can answer that, if appropriate. The expansion of the area of competence in the world has nothing to do with their burden. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr István Vitányi whether he wishes to make a closing statement or to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A few thoughts, because my fellow Members have already answered each other's questions in two minutes. One paragraph is amended, or two in the notary law. This has given each faction an opportunity to express its views on this matter. My fellow Member Bárándy spoke for 13 minutes, of which he spent 10 minutes, to say the least, playing the role of pro-government representatives. I must be honest with you that I have so far appreciated the Member because he has always had professional contributions. I don't know how he went down that way. But I understand your current state of mind. Your party is in a position, and it affects the party members, obviously, and your clarity and professional... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Don't say "Czegledy."]] It's not Czegledy, it's Soros; it's Soros. So the point is, I've never experienced the kind of personal tone that the congressman has just used. I believe that the examples you have raised are limping, too, because you said you saw that a notary job is announced in Hódmezővásárhely. [[14.10]] What does the law have to do with this? It doesn't open new notary jobs, because I'd understand if we opened new notary jobs, and that's because someone's going to go there right now if we open one of those. Not at all. No, not at all. What you and Imre Vas have been discussing is that now you won't have that much time for the notary if you open a suboffice, you'll have to hire an assistant notary. That's gonna make more notaries. It is not excluded, it is not excluded, and if you had listened to my exposé, you would have also seen that the regulation to be taken by the future Minister of Justice would serve precisely the purpose of ordering the notary opening the suboffice to spend the same amount of time as before in his head office and even hire a deputy notary. You already have more time for the suboffice if you're working at the head office as a deputy notary. He mentioned why we had not dealt with the amendment of the former notary law, which we adopted today. But you must have read it because you're familiar with the law, because you're prepared, but I just don't know what happened today that you weren't talking about the subject from 13 minutes. The obligation to harmonise legislation. When we follow the Union and give it the right, the problem is when we face the Union, that's the problem, so there's always something wrong, obviously. The judgment of the Luxembourg court pushes the notary towards market opening, and not to mention, Member, that - as I know - the notary is Janus-face. On the one hand, he's doing a state job, and on the other hand, if I go in there and he's gonna make a sales contract, I don't think it's a state job. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's the problem!]] It wouldn't be a state task. This legislation is neither that nor that, and, as a result of this short amendment of the paragraph, Jobbik has obviously brought up his favourite topics: corruption, banking, foreign exchange credit, this is not the case in this legislation, but this is what we can talk about. And I am amazed at my colleague Csaba Gyüre. When some legislation is presented, although, when our former Parliament was sitting here, our law colleague also followed historical traditions in his clothing, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, how good it was for folk traditions. Now you're saying what we refer to here as historical traditions. So once the historical tradition is good, sometimes the historical tradition is not good, once it transcends, sometimes it never transcends. Please, all your contributions are made in the light of your position as a party. There has not been much talk about this legislation, so technically I have no answer to that, so I can only say, fellow Members, that this is a good proposal, so please vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2017 LXXVIII on lawyering. General discussion of the bill amending certain laws and other laws relating to the entry into force of law until closure. The government referral is T/17563. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill, which is to be negotiated today by this House, is LXXVIII of 2017 on the legal activity adopted on 13 June 2017. Law 1 of 1 January 2018 aims to ensure the smooth implementation of its entry into force and to preserve the unity of the legal system. In addition, the bill makes laws on judicial matters that improve the effectiveness of the application of the law, such as laws on notaries, court enforcement or probate proceedings. Allow me first to briefly explain to you the amendments and the reasons for these amendments that the new law on the activity of lawyers requires to enter into force. In order to strengthen public trust in the judiciary, the law implements uniform and complete rules for law enforcement activities directly linked to it, as well as for persons entitled to do so. Its most important innovation is to change the scope of legal representation and the scope of those who are entitled to a documentary countersignation. Following its entry into force, only chamber lawyers who become a member of the Bar or, under their direction, legal rapporteurs registered in the Chamber of Laws, may carry out a task as a lawyer. At the same time, the Legislative Decree No 3 of 1983 on legal advisory activities and its implementing regulation are repealed. The integration of legal chambers under the law ensures the guarantee conditions for legal counseling in the Chamber, so that persons carrying out the same activities will be subject to the same set of requirements. As a result of integration, guarantee rules will also apply to chambers of lawyers, which are the conditions for the activities they carry out. These include the public register, the rules of ethics established by the Chamber, the regulations governing the pursuit of the profession, the supervision of the Chamber and the training and training provided by it. Together, they guarantee an adequate level of professionalism. This legal background is the basis for ensuring, within the framework laid down by law, the same procedural rights and the right to a wider registration of documents as lawyers for legal representation in this bill. To this end, a number of procedural and other sectoral laws have been required to be amended. Ladies and Gentlemen, Some of the amendments are of a technical nature. The term "consultant" in accordance with the legislation in force is replaced by the status of Chamber Counselor in accordance with the new terminology. Such an amendment concerns, inter alia, certain provisions of the Civil Code. It is also essential to amend references to the current law of attorney. The other part of the amendments is the result of a review of the content as set out above, which, where appropriate, provides for the possibility for chamber counsels to act more generally than in force. The expansion of the role of chamber counsellors justifies the need to extend the scope of the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing to their activities and, in parallel, the supervisory powers of the chambers of lawyers in relation to their activities. The amendment also makes it clear, in accordance with the Law on Lawyer Activities, that the Hungarian Chamber of Laws prepares a single policy on supervisory procedures, supervisory risk assessment and supervisory guidance. The amendment to some of the provisions of the patent attorneys' law is justified by adapting the practice of a lawyer to the new legislation. In order to strengthen public confidence in the activities of patent brokers, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the grounds for excluding admission to the Chamber of Hungarian Patent Agents, as is the case for reasons which preclude legal activity. With the amendment of the patent attorneys' law, new rules on conflicts of interest in the exercise of the lawyer's activities are also published here. It was also appropriate to review and supplement the provisions on the confidentiality of patent agents and to separate the rules on the understanding of the attorney-general and of the secret of the agent in accordance with the rules of the lawyer's activity, and to consult the documents containing the secret. The new rules will contribute to predictability by mapping to a reasonable extent the relevant rules of the Law on Law on Lawyers' Activities, by clarifying the material and procedural provisions concerning the disclosure of the case-maker's confidentiality and documents containing secrets. Ladies and gentlemen, The wide-ranging nature of the revision under the bill is well demonstrated by the need to amend the provisions on the application requirements for certain legal professions, which establish the recognition of professional experience in the field, as a result of the integration of chamber councils. In this context, technical amendments to the rules on recognised practice in the case of notaries, judges and prosecutors were necessary, inter alia. [[14.20]] As the legal counsel will cease as a legal category as from 1 January 2018, it is appropriate to require in those provisions the legal advice of the Chamber. Following the entry into force of the Law on Lawyer Activities, employees who do not enter the Chamber of Law shall not carry out activities guaranteeing relevant practices such as a countersignation or the performance of legal representation in public authority proceedings. Of course, in addition to these rules, it is necessary to provide for transitional provisions to ensure that the case law, which has been passed before 1 January 2018, is still recognised in the tendering procedures. Since the establishment of the application requirements for judges and prosecutors concerns a fundamental legislative subject under the Fundamental Law, the adoption of these amendments requires the support of a qualified majority of the Honourable Parliament. I will ask my fellow Members to support the amendment in this area in the light of the arguments presented. Dear Parliament, The Law on Lawyer Activities was conceptually of the view that there was no legal justification for the internal organisation of the employer's work, such as the legislation on senior lawyers. In the context of chamber integration, the Law on Lawyer activities provides that the employer of typically employed chamber lawyers and legal lecturers may assume the obligation to pay to the Chamber. These include administrative procedural costs or bar fees. In this connection, it is necessary to amend the Personal Income Tax Act in order to name the amount taken over by the employer as an item that may be disregarded in the calculation of the income. It is appropriate to extend this rule to lawyers in other chambers, such as candidates for lawyers or employed lawyers, under the law of the State. The Law on Lawyer Activities provides more detailed information on the rules on the obligation of attorney-client confidentiality. In this context, it generally guarantees the protection of so-called defence documents in the communication between the client and the lawyer, and defines the powers of the authorities in relation to documents containing a lawyer's secret. For example, this change made it necessary to amend the relevant provisions of the Act on the National Bank of Hungary in order to include, in addition to the Law on Lawyer activities, only additional rules relating to the procedure. Finally, allow me to refer to the presentation of other amendments which are not closely linked to the entry into force of the Law on Lawyer Activities, which are affected by the bill. In order to make the task of notaries more efficient, the bill amends the provisions of the Law on notaries and the Law on probate proceedings on several points. The statutory liability insurance of notaries increases from HUF 50 million to HUF 100 million. The Hungarian National notary Chamber will be obliged to conclude this. The bill expands the scope of legal activities that can be taken into account as a notary practice for the sake of interoperability between legal professions. In view of the expansion of digitalisation, the introduction of the single administration application will modernise the system of notaries' registers and the rules for the signature of electronic notaries and the certification of electronic signatures will also be changed. As regards the probate procedure, the bill ensures consistency with the substantive rules on trust management, settles the role and responsibilities of the executor of the will in the succession procedure and provides for the possibility of electronic contact with payment and other service providers in order to fully explore the legacy. By amending the law on judicial enforcement, the bill settles the problems that arise in the application of the law and clarifies the regulation. One of the most significant amendments, which concerns all enforcement procedures, makes the postal service of the enforceable instrument the main rule instead of the personal service of the enforceable instrument by the enforcement officer. The law will, of course, continue to provide for an option, so the applicant for enforcement may also request a personal transfer by the enforcer in the application. The proposal makes it clear that the administrative body of the faculty should not only authorise the establishment of the executive agency, but also that the instrument of incorporation may be amended. Dear Parliament, The bill also amends certain provisions of the new Civil Procedure Act, given that the new Law on Lawyers, the Law on the Register of General Powers of Procedure and, inter alia, the adoption of the Law on New Arbitration were adopted after its adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, On the 30th of May, the Parliament adopted the new arbitration law, on the basis of which the permanent arbitration court in favour of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry will operate in a renewed organisational order from 1 January 2018. In assessing the outcome of the negotiations of the organisations that delegated members of the Presidency to date, it was necessary to conclude that, in order to ensure the functioning of the arbitration tribunal, the issue of fees should be regulated by law. The amendment therefore states that the members of the Presidency of the arbitration court are to be paid a fee and that, in the matter of the extent and the bearing thereof, the organisations which delegate members of the presidencies should be agreed. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the Law on Lawyers' Activities itself prior to its entry into force requires, inter alia, compliance with certain laws adopted earlier but which will enter into force at the same time on 1 January 2018. In view of the changing procedural environment, such as the new Pp., the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Rules and General Administrative Rules and the entry into force of the Act on General Administrative Rules, it is necessary to introduce a transitional rule on the basis of which legal advisers who are entitled to act in proceedings pending after 1 January 2018 on the basis of the laws in force before 1 January 2018 and who are not regulated and not known in those laws and legal advisers registered in the Bar Associations are entitled to act. It is also necessary to adapt the Law on Lawyer activities to the amendments previously introduced to the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt a bill drawn up and widely agreed by the Ministry of Justice with the involvement of professional wallets. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-03-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Today is a big day for notaries, because this is the third bill, which amends the Act on notaries, XLI 1991. Law. This morning, the House voted on the first amendment of the Act on notaries, we just discussed a notary amendment in the presentation of István Vitányi, and this bill also amends the amendment of the Act on notaries. It is true, however, that the main direction of the bill is LXXVIII of 2017 on lawyer activity. Amendment of laws relating to the entry into force of law. Mr Secretary of State has described these rules in detail, and I do not think it is necessary to repeat them, but rather to highlight the most important amendment that has brought this bill before us. This is the most important amendment of the law and changes in the situation of legal advisers in the future. For decades, counsellors have been a transition between a lawyer and a legal rapporteur, a legal agent. Today, the Legislative Decree No.3 of 1983 on legal counseling can be regarded as an outdated law, even if it has obviously undergone many amendments, but the framework for legal counseling has not changed until today, exactly until 1 January 2018, until the entry into force of the new law on lawyers. So the legal counseling took place at some point in the 1980s, as I said, until the entry into force of the new law on lawyers. [[14.30]] The new law of attorney, which we adopted here in this House a few months ago, establishes the institution of the Chamber Counselor, which will once again constitute a unique transition between the lawyer and the lawyer. However, this Chamber Counselor is closer to the lawyer, as it is also included in his name that he is a person registered in the Bar Association, a member of the Bar Association, who has certain legal rights, certain details of the lawyer's activities, such as representation in civil proceedings, legal representation, and legal counsel, which is the chamber's lawyer. However, this lawyer will still not be a person with full rights and self-reliance, as the lawyer does. So the lawyer continues to have a much wider scope of professional activity and a much greater responsibility in the future. It is therefore necessary to amend a number of legislation with the introduction of the Chamber Counselor and the start of its operation after 1 January. The bill before us identifies five of these laws, which need to be amended by the start of the operation of chamber lawyers. The above-mentioned notary law, the patent attorneys' law, the law on succession proceedings, the law on legal aid and the law on money laundering should be amended for the start of the activities of chamber lawyers. Of course, the proposal, as the Secretary of State has said, concerns other legislation, not only in the context of the Law on Lawyers. So it's a kind of judicial correctness in this bill. A number of necessary amendments, partly linked to the entry into force of the Law on Lawyers and partly linked to other laws on the subject of justice that we have adopted in recent months, have made it necessary for us to see this draft legislation which amends several laws now. If I count correctly, the Minister of Justice proposes to amend eight laws in this legislation. Dear House, I have just mentioned that we are discussing the law on notary activities again, because I hope that it is not necessary to repeat the debate on notaries before, although it would in principle be a formal opportunity to do so, I propose that we close the debate on notaries and rather discuss the parts of the bill primarily relating to legal activity, since this is the biggest change in the coming year. In 2018, however, not only the rules of legal activity, but also a number of laws applied daily by lawyers and, by the way, by the whole judiciary. Just think that not only will the Law of Lawyers enter into force, but the Law of Criminal Procedure will enter into force, or the Civil Procedure Act will enter into force, and a number of related laws will enter into force, and not to mention the administrative statute which will also enter into force. So in 2018 justice, narrower and broader justice are facing a great task, the laws we have created must start to be implemented, and these laws must start to apply. I note that the Parliament has wisely left sufficient time for preparation, although it must obviously be taken into account here that the parallel entry into force of several new laws is a difficult task, as if only one law should be re-learned by these people working in the judiciary. Dear House, So I ask that the bill be supported, and the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We agree on two things with Mr Répássy, of course a little, obviously in terms of nuances, in a different approach. But one is that it is indeed a big day for notaries, because the third law that the House is dealing with today on this subject, I would add that I say this in disapproval, as I explained in the debate on the last law. So, for example, Congressman Lazarus could have brought his previous proposal in here calmly, and then we would have saved a debate and not even the horse's foot would have been so much. The other thing we agree with is that, indeed - how did my fellow Member put it? - a law correcting or enforcing or transferring laws on a legal subject. We used to call this a good salad law with everything in it. It is not a matter of amending the laws relating to the entry into force of the Law on the Law on the Law on Lawyer's Activities, although it is undoubtedly elegantly attached to it with a semi-spoken phrase that it could have been written to the author. I do not like such laws, but it is interesting that I looked back, and now it came back to an old recording, if you remember it, fellow Members, who have also been members of Parliament for a long time, there was such a genre as a parliamentary diary. It was a show on M1, and it was right there that Congressman Solomon horribly condemned the salad laws and explained why this was not good. But in order to get a little closer to today, President János Áder, Speaker László Kövér also raised his voice against them. Of course, in relation to that, and it is obviously a different job for an opposition and a different job for the governing party or the nationalist and the pro-government representative, it is obviously your job to praise and praise the law, and it is my job to say clearly what it is that we can accept, but, nevertheless, to express its criticism of the proposal before us. That is why I would not be able to deal with what Mr Répássy was talking about for a long time, and Mr Secretary of State has also spoken about, there are indeed parts of the bill that are absolutely justified by the amendment of the law. So, obviously, we have no excuses here. I am obviously thinking of the notary law, the patent attorneys' law, the victim-help law, the compensation law and the law on legal aid. However, let me get stuck right here for a thought, and perhaps this is one of the most serious criticisms, because now it is not possible to argue that Be. should first be submitted in an intact way, Pp. should first be submitted in an intact manner. We are now really at the stage of the debate on supplementary legislative proposals. And if Mr. Secretary remembers when the Be. At the debate of law and even at Pp., we discussed that the law on legal aid really needs to be corrected, not corrected, but let me say that a more serious amendment to the content, and then you promised to do so after the entry into force of the two major codes. We are here now, with a lot of changes in this law, except for the important sections that we talked about back in the day. We agreed that it was the right thing to do - here I refer primarily to Pp, but of course the Be. It may also be included - that if the scope of proceedings where the legislator requires the presence of a lawyer is extended, i.e. the number of court cases. This can, of course, promote, enhance professionalism, but it is good, and it is right, if we are to add a set of criteria that provide for the other principle, that is, that everyone really is equal before the law, whether it be criminal proceedings or civil proceedings. Today's rules do not guarantee that. [[14.40]] Of course, ensuring this 100% is an illusion, but we must strive to ensure that this is the case as much as possible. We take equality of law, whether in the field of legal science, the positions that have been established there, whether international practice, standards or the Hungarian concept of law, so it is strongly determined who has the opportunity to obtain legal representation. Those who are wealthy have such an opportunity, as they can choose between the 6 thousand law firms in Budapest and 12,000 law firms that operate nationally. But those who do not have the means to do so are at a disadvantage, and if the law on legal aid does not make it possible to use the help of a lawyer more widely than currently, those who need it and cannot afford a lawyer's job, then equality of law will be damaged. And what we gain on one side in the legislative amendment, that is, higher professionalism, we lose on the other side. No one can be put at a disadvantage because they can't afford a lawyer, they can't lose the opportunity to sue because they can't afford a lawyer. I think that if we are past the debate on procedural laws and now we are discussing related laws, and here we are changing not only the rules on Be. but also the rules on Pp., it would be justified for the government to finally expand what it has promised. And I'll ask Mr. Secretary why he doesn't. So, in the context of the law on aid, why is there no proposal in this package of laws that extends the scope of those who can use it in these proceedings? All the more reason I'm asking you this, because this is what we were promised to do at the five-party meeting. We have been promised that the government already has these drafts, they are already working on them, and otherwise they agree with this suggestion. If that's the case, I'd like to ask you where these rules are. I feel this is a shortcoming of this bill, which in itself would make me wonder if, if we agree with everything else that is in it, we should support it, because without it, it is extremely unfair, so to speak, let me put it this way. The fact that so many laws are still being amended in addition to what is necessary, and I must say, the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and the responsibility of the judicial government. These laws should not necessarily be amended by the entry into force of the new law on lawyers, because, for example, the Pp amendment here in the so-called supplemental law package takes place in 18 items - let's say, with a number of text changes - which have nothing to do with law in the world. We have said many times, my fellow Members, that the Ministry of Justice is presenting its proposals in an incredibly poor capacity and in a sloppy manner. A ministry that should pay attention not only to its own legislative work but also to the legislative work of other ministries, so that it is coherent, so that it is professional, compared to the proposals from you, Mr Secretary of State, it also lacks a minimum of professionalism. The fact that I say once again in the Legislative Committee that several ten-page corrections to proposals from the Ministry of Justice must be made before the final vote, and these are all text-focusing, stylish amendments and proposals to eliminate any problems with coherence, is amazing. Well, what are you guys doing in the Ministry? ! And this proposal says the same thing, Mr. Secretary of State. The fact that Pp, once again, has to be amended in 18 items in this proposal, is that the legislation on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing has already to be amended - this, by the way, I say in parentheses, 2007 LIII. Law, not so old - or even the law on arbitration that has not entered into force, has to be amended in three items, and what is the most beautiful, the Law on Lawyer's Activity itself, in 9 items and with a lot of text-exchange amendments - what quality work is this, Mr Secretary of State? ! I think that these are unacceptable. And let me just say this: I don't know if there was a parliamentary faction or not, but you may have some bad experience about the fate of the two-thirds laws that have not been negotiated here in Parliament right now, don't you? Compared to this, the proposal contains a number of fundamental provisions, such as the Media Act, the Media Services and Public Communications Act, and then the Law on the Status and remuneration of Judges, the Law on the Status of the General Prosecutor and Prosecutors - do you think we will vote in favour of this? Mr State Secretary, I think that some consultation would be justified in at least two-thirds of the laws. I don't necessarily say five-party, there's absolutely no need to formalize this, but there may be a need for some coordination, and then we could talk about supporting it. What's more, he supports it even if, of course, not like cows, I understand it on a market basis, we get something in return. Not us, but Hungarian citizens, supporting proposals that we consider important. So, for example, what I mentioned is this law on legal aid. If, for example, we can agree to change this, then obviously we are more open to supporting a two-thirds law; if not, then obviously neither are we. And, of course, here is what we have been talking about for a long time, in order to make some changes to the powers of the President of the OBH and the President of the Curia in relation to declaring applications invalid. We have also talked about this many times, and I am bringing it here again, because we have a two-thirds amendment on this subject again. Then let's bring him in, talk about what we need, miss our proposals, and, if possible, agree - but not so. So, ladies and gentlemen, there are, therefore, parts of the proposal that we consider necessary and justified. For my part, I quit to submit amendments, because no matter what I submit, it is rejected because it comes from the opposition. So I'm just saying what I'm thinking, and then you can bring in a pro-government amendment, which is not embarrassing to vote for. And on this subject, obviously, if it is, we will support it, because once again, there is a part of this package of proposals that we can support. What is more, ladies and gentlemen, I also say that there is something that we can support from the provisions that I have condemned, because my criticism was not that what is here is wrong, but that it is that there is a law that needs to be made that much correction. So obviously, we can continue to talk about this proposal on the basis of the amendments and attitudes, so we can certainly not support it in its present form. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-03-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have a continuation of the law on law enforcement. That's why it's a sequel... [[The sound is buzzing.]] - I'm sorry, it's like something's bothering you. It is a continuation because we have adopted the legislation, so there are a number of other laws that need to be amended in order to fit this into the Hungarian legal system at all points. It is also called a bill relating to the entry into force of the Law on Lawyer Activities and other judicial legislation. I think that if we were to talk about it... - and I think that the national has made a mistake here that we should have separated these two parts, because the most important part now is that amendments to the legislation relating to the entry into force can be made. [[14.50]] There was a similar piece of legislation in front of us recently, which just amended 73 pieces of legislation, and I also said in the debate that such an amendment would require a very serious judicial preparation, because practically the entire Hungarian legal system would have to be searched for what to change. When the term "lawyer" instead of the term "lawyer" comes in, the term "lawyer" and "lawyer" is obviously where the word "lawyer" used earlier - since in the future the same activity may be performed by the chamber counsels, so it will affect all the laws in which it is contained and all must be rewritten, which is obviously no small task. I think that this proposal should have been put forward in itself, separated from its salad character, and that, if it were specifically for its original purpose - the original purpose of the provisions relating to the entry into force and implementation of the Law on Lawyer activity - it would have been a completely different matter than that. I think it would have been more important for this to happen. There is a series of problems, and the opposition has always talked about it in the last seven and a half years, since the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is here in Parliament, that the salad laws in which it brings in many other laws under a legal title and tries to link them, which have no unity and no logical relationship, are generally not supported, and I think it is especially easy for the government to bring in one of these in the case of a two-thirds law, in the case of a fundamental law, because we have always said our criticism, we have always said our criticism of the salad laws. Of course, the Secretary of State will say that they are all connected, all logically linked, all built on one another, which has something in it, because there is a point in each of them that is built on one another, but it also changes the legislation in a lot of other respects, which is not logically related in any form. In itself, if there were detailed technical amendments, we would not have a problem with this legislation. Speaking of which, let's see what these are. Mr Répássy, my fellow Member, said that we should talk about the Law of Lawyers, because it amends it in the first place, and the notary law has already been mentioned today, since it has already been before the House twice today, and this is the third time that it will be made available. However, it is not possible to go without a word, as this legislation also changes the functioning of notaries to a very large extent, and I have to say that it affects almost one part of their activities, which is not related to the amendment of the law relating to the entry into force of the Law on Lawyers' Activities, because there are a lot of things that actually have nothing to do with it. For example, the issue of liability insurance, as already indicated by the Secretary of State, is increasing the amount of liability insurance for notaries from 50 million to 100 million, for which the Hungarian National notary Chamber will conclude contracts for each notary separately. So far, it's 50 million forints, now it's 100 million forints. I think it is obvious that this change is brought about by the fact that economic life requires this, because notaries conclude contracts on a daily basis in amounts that clearly justify an increase in the upper amount of liability insurance in this respect. Speaking of which, back to Mr. Répássy's recommendation, let's deal with the law. Similarly, this legislation affects the compulsory liability insurance of lawyers, although to a very, very small extent and practically only on a technical basis, as it says that from 1 January 2018 until 31 December 2018 the maximum amount of liability insurance will be HUF 10 million, which is a fee and liability insurance fee, compensation fee, so the insurance will have to be made for this amount. In this regard, we have already expressed our position on the law of law, which is roughly the same as the law firm's position. I am pleased that our amendment is not accepted - I am not happy that the majority of the government will not accept the opposition amendments at all and reject them at all, but I am glad that one thing that we are criticising here about a draft law will, however, be included in the next legislation, or it will appear in the next amendment. Some points in the Law on Lawyer Activities were similar. And here I have decided on the part of the law on law enforcement that dealt with the liability insurance ceiling, and on the amount of compensation to be paid in the event of compensation. In this there was a chamber recommendation, the National Bar Association had a position in this, which it sent to the Ministry. What was missing from this proposal was that the National Bar Association did not consider it justified to raise a fee or raise an amount that would be very, very sudden, but described the need to make such a change in Hungary in several steps, gradually and slowly. This was also the case in the Law on Lawyer activity, since gradualness appears, a gradual increase divided into years. I think that the increase is always required by economic life and legal activity, even if it is more unpleasant for lawyers to pay a higher insurance premium, but it must also be noted that this is obviously also protecting the lawyer, because he will not have to pay these amounts. Speaking of which, there's a part of it that's completely missing, which was recommended by the Bar Association, and that's the limited liability of lawyers, so even the operation of a law firm as well as a limited liability company. The Chamber also suggested that if, on the other hand, the premiums increase, the insurance amount increases, then it should be considered that there should be a possibility for lawyers to have a limited liability. Here, as an idea, it can be realised that an unlimited liability insurance will take place for a certain or double insurance fee, and the liability of lawyers would be limited. So there was a recommendation from the Chamber in this regard. Returning to notary activity. From a certain point of view, it is a place to spend the time of notary practice, where it is possible to spend this practical time for notary appointment. We fully agree with what has been in the legislation so far, and I do not think that it is devilish to change it, but I cannot quite agree with this change in all respects. I can agree that a lawyer who has an exam, becomes a constitutional judge and works as a constitutional judge or even in the EU human rights court obviously has such legal experience that he will be able to carry out notary activities, and I have no problem with that. On the other hand, which, if I remember correctly - what I have been talking about so far is point (c), but I cannot agree with point (b) or agree with it that way. He said that administrative practice should be taken into account in the event that he spent that time with a central administration. I think that if we extend this opportunity to lawyers working in the public administration to apply for a notary post after three years of practical time and can be appointed as notaries, then this should not be narrowed down to civil servants or government officials working in central government administrations, but should then be equally projected on those working in the public administration. Therefore, it should not be narrowed down to the conclusion that, obviously, an opposition representative would conclude that, of course, we are going to want to implant our proven central government cadets again, and we want to give them the opportunity to sit in notary seats. [[15.00]] We rule out administrative professionals who have been in the same way in the courts, represented their offices in administrative matters, carried out the same legal activities, but they were not central, they were either local or mid-level. These should not, in my view, be excluded in any way if we expand. So either let us not expand in this direction, or if we expand it, this should apply to all lawyers working in public administrations, obviously to those who are engaged in legal activities, equally subject to this legislation. Obviously, the fact that computer technology is evolving requires attention, and that is why it needs to be changed. But again, I'm telling you, it's not in this legislation. The fact that matters must continue to be dealt with on a paper basis in succession and in personal terms, I think that it is justified that it is correct that it is included in the proposal. The confidentiality of notaries has obviously been regulated so far. However, this changes from a certain point of view, since the clerk of the notary office is subject to the same confidentiality obligation as notaries, deputy notaries. Obviously, this is a justified amendment that should have been made before, since it has the same information and secrets as the notary, and it is in the same social interest that, where appropriate, these secrets should not be disclosed. Obviously, the notary office in the contract of employment, when hiring such an employee, covered confidentiality, but it is much stronger if there is legislation in this regard and confidentiality is recorded at a legal level. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) If we go beyond the notary amendment and the amendment of the Law on Lawyer activities, we can see that other matters, important legislation, will also be changed in this draft. Thus, the Patent Act, or the Law on the Probation Procedure, or the National Bank Act, or the Civil Procedure, which we adopted not long ago, or which has been amended since then. Obviously, if that's all PP is about. I wouldn't say a word. Only indeed, as the previous speaker has already mentioned, this legislative activity of the Ministry of Justice leaves something to be desired. Here, too, it appears that amendments are constantly coming in that we have recently adopted the law. They didn't even come into force, and it turns out that we have to touch it, we have to change it here, we have to change it there. I think that this method should be changed. It would be good if it was really rock-solid, as you called the Fundamental Law. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Granite!]] "Granite-solid laws would be born. The irony of fate is that it also had to be touched very quickly, it did not hold its place in many respects, and as we know, it is the governing parties that, in many cases, are the first to break their own Fundamental Law, which do not even adhere to what they have adopted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-03-100	Welcome. Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. There will now be further speeches by Members, if such an application is made. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to reflect on what has been said. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Secretary Völner, please.
u2017-10-03-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some questions have been asked, so I will try to answer them. Congressman Bárándy has practically raised the problem of the salad law, but my fellow Member Gyüre has already responded to it. Indeed, many of these changes affect the law, and they make it necessary for it to be brought before this House in a package. I would defend your IM apparatus in such a complex and interrelated way that, of course, there is always something to smooth over. Thus, it is not in itself a sign of the quality or low quality of legislation if it is to be improved by the last moment. As regards the issue of legal assistance, we know that there have been several amendments in the new Pp. that point in this direction, since the district court has the obligation to teach, inform, the clients acting without a legal representative have a form at their disposal to make use of submissions without any need, and we have also recently extended legal aid legislation. With regard to the two-thirds negotiations, I also pointed out in the expoze itself that there are some technical amendments, such as the same calculation of practical times, which make the amendment necessary. If the Member has a need, we are, of course, welcome to consult or even the legal experts of the other groups for such a discussion. My fellow Member, Mr Gyure, suggested that these materials should perhaps have been presented separately. It was precisely in connection with notaries that the observation was made as to why they came before the House separately, so we cannot do justice in this way. Now it's all in one piece on our table. As regards the increase in liability insurance, it was precisely the proposal of the MOKK, and indeed it followed the increase in legal liability insurance under the law. As regards notary practice, interoperability has emerged, for example, in connection with the recognition of a single legal exam and legal practice, thus expanding, following amendments to the law on the status of judges. To conclude, we have actually adopted several laws recently. Obviously, it's always the last thing that's the most recent, and there's always something that can be updated on this basis with the others. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-102	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following the 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings a general discussion of the law, certain criminal law and the bill amending the laws governing EU and international criminal cooperation until closure. The government referral is T/17572. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice, author. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before you amends several laws, including the most extensive changes to the law on international criminal assistance, the law on criminal proceedings, the law on criminal law, the law on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union and the law on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain measures and detention of offences. I would like to briefly present the main amendments contained in the bill, according to the needs for which they are drawn up. Some of the amendments were justified by the adoption of a new civil procedure. The entry into force of civil procedure in the context of indemnification and civil law needs is fundamentally affecting criminal proceedings, and the regulation of criminal proceedings should therefore be adapted to the terminology and provisions of this law. In this context, the bill points out that the requirement of ex officio in respect of civil rights claims does not apply to the prosecutor, since the prosecutor can only apply civil law in place of the victim on an auxiliary basis and with limited powers. The bill derogates from the general provisions on succession of victims in respect of the private party, so that, instead of a relative, a legal representative or a person dependent on the victim, the successor is able to act as a private party. [[15.10]] In addition, the amendment makes it clear in the law of criminal proceedings that, in order to ensure consistency and a simpler transition between civil and criminal proceedings, the effects of filing an application and bringing proceedings, as set out in the Civil Procedure Act, are maintained if, in the event of any other lawful way, the claim is enforced by the private party in a separate civil procedure. In practice, it is currently a problem that civil courts in many cases do not take into account the requirements of the Civil Procedure Act on the application in submissions, which makes it difficult for the case to be fully dealt with and, on the other hand, raises doubts about legality. In order to resolve this, the bill states that the claim for compensation must be made by an application and also sets out the mandatory content of the application. The new rules on electronic communications make up a significant part of the amendments. On the basis of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Administration and the Government Decree issued for its implementation, the bodies responsible for electronic administration will be obliged to ensure the electronic handling of cases from 1 January 2018. Accordingly, the rules of electronic contact and electronic administration should also be laid down in relation to criminal proceedings. It is important to point out that the new Criminal Procedure Act, which will enter into force on 1 July 2018, already contains the rules for electronic contact, so that regulation should only be established for the period from 1 January 2018 to 1 July 2018 by adopting the new rules under the Law on Criminal Procedure. In addition, the current legislation of the Criminal Procedure Act was based on paper file handling and contacts, which had to be reviewed in the light of the new rules on electronic administration and contact. During this review, the administrative rules that apply explicitly to paper documents under the current rules will be made technologically neutral. Harmonisation with international and Union law, the adoption of new acquis arising from Union acts and bilateral or multilateral international conventions, has now become one of the key tasks of national legislation. On 15 January 2003, Hungary signed Additional Protocol 2 to the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters introducing significant changes in international criminal cooperation. However, the additional protocol has not yet been published due to the lack of a legislative environment. In order to publish an additional protocol which significantly enhances the effectiveness of international cooperation in criminal matters outside the European Union, it has become necessary to amend the law on international assistance in criminal matters. In this context, the re-regulation of the transfer and take-over of criminal proceedings sets out a clear and specific decision-making situation. In addition, the process of handing over the procedure and the procedure to be followed in specific situations will be specified in detail. The bill clearly separates the report from the transfer of criminal proceedings to the foreign State, which can be made if Hungary does not have jurisdiction or the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office does not take action to initiate the proceedings. The bill also provides for special procedural assistance when the prisoner is temporarily transferred to the State which made the request for judicial assistance. In such cases, the requested State shall hand over to the requesting State the person it is holding. The requested Member State therefore does not carry out any procedural action, but only ensures the presence of the detained person in the proceedings conducted by the requesting Member State. Several legal institutions already regulated in the Law on Criminal Cooperation with the Member States of the European Union are essentially incorporated into the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters with the same content. For example, interrogation through a closed telecommunications network, controlled transport, the use of a covered investigator or the delivery of an official document will also be regulated by taking over an effective system already in place between EU Member States. One of the key objectives of international criminal cooperation is the return of property and property belonging to the victim in the context of the crime. The bill also comprehensively regulates direct and formal legal assistance cooperation to return the subject, as well as simplified procedures based on international circling. The law on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union is also amended on several points. It should be pointed out that, in accordance with the European Investigation Order Directive, domestic legislation now makes it clear that the prisoner must be declared in relation to the temporary transfer, but that temporary transfer may take place in the absence of consent. The bill also re-regulates the supervision measure, stating that the implementation of the supervisory measure is governed by Hungarian legislation, by the fact that the violation of the rules of conduct may constitute a place for the imposition of a criminal penalty, but the personal freedom of the defendant cannot be limited. On the basis of practical experience, the consultation process has also been reformed with a view to resolving conflicts of jurisdiction arising from parallel proceedings. Finally, I would like to highlight those amendments that have come to light by means of feedback from the law enforcement authorities, or are intended to address maladministration, shortcomings in their own competence by the legislator, or to address new social phenomena and new problems that have arisen. In particular, the criminal code should be cited as supplementing the facts of the forgery of health products. More and more recently, Hungary is receiving large quantities of medicines that are only suitable for the production of medicines illegally. Under the current rules, these substances are not considered to be health products. In order to ensure that persons who are authorised to trade without authorisation with active substances exclusively suitable for the manufacture of medicinal products and who obtain, organisely and pass on the original products in large quantities from the pharmacist, wholesaler of medicinal products, are more effective in criminal action, it has also become necessary to pedalise preparation behaviour. The amendment to the Criminal Code is also a clarification of the facts of the illicit acquisition of data. In contrast to the original legislative intention, the interpretation of the case law was narrowing the turn of the other dwellings, other premises or related enclosed spaces. In order to resolve the problem of interpretation of the law, the amendment made by the bill will make any conduct in which the individual perpetrator basically uses a secret service tool for which the authority would need a judicial authorisation. On the basis of legal feedback, there was a need for an amendment to the current Criminal Procedure Act aimed at allowing a wider use of interrogation through a closed-circuit telecommunications network. The amendment introduces significant facilitations in this area, thereby ensuring that this form of interrogation is implemented more frequently. Such simplification is, for example, that in the case of an investigation and judicial meeting on the extension of a pre-trial detention, there is no need to justify the order for a remote hearing or that there is a possibility to order a period of less than five days. The bill amends the rules of the Code of Correction for parcel delivery to prevent the entry of prohibited goods, in particular narcotic substances, psychoactive substances. In addition to keeping the number and frequency of packages, the bill limits the scope of items that can be sent in the package, but at the same time it contains a solution that will continue to enable the prisoner to be supported by the contact person. In its decision of 2017, the Constitutional Court stated that the National Assembly caused a failure to comply with the basic law by not regulating the limitation of the enforceability of the fine converted to prison. By removing this deficiency, the bill regulates the cessation of the enforcement of the fine under the new chapter of the Prison Act. Mr President, Dear House, This bill seeks to address a number of cardinal issues. The problems that need to be resolved concern important issues which need to be addressed in order to function effectively, effectively and in accordance with the requirements of the legal system. With the adoption of the bill, we can therefore not only meet our external obligations, but also make the work of law enforcement workers easier and more effective by clarifying the interpretation of the law, updating the procedural rules, and developing a background regulation that responds to new phenomena. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[15.20]]
u2017-10-03-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Répássy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is a good example of the fact that Parliament has provided such a long period of preparation for the entry into force of the new law on criminal proceedings - which will enter into force on 1 July 2018 - that during this long period of preparation it may be necessary to amend the old law on criminal proceedings still in force, as the new Be. Until its entry into force, it is necessary to help law enforcement work, the work of the judiciary, with certain legislative amendments. So it is not a mistake, the Parliament, with the bill before us, will amend the law on criminal proceedings to be repealed but still in force in 1998. Dear House, Our group supports the bill. The Secretary of State presented the content of the bill in detail in his exposé. I would just like to reiterate that, because of the entry into force of the new civil procedure, the bill contains some legislative amendments, as well as the introduction of new rules for electronic correspondence into the law on criminal proceedings, and also includes amendments to comply with international and EU requirements, as well as, in the case of the law on criminal proceedings, other legislative amendments that have the basis of legislative observations or the coherence of the legal system. Some of the shortcomings of the existing legislation are proposed to be addressed by the amendment. However, I would like first of all to present and draw attention to the substantive changes in criminal law. In Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, the proposal aims to amend the proposal, in particular the meeting of fines and life imprisonment, in a new way, as the Constitutional Court also took a decision on this subject on 19 June of this year. In view of this, the proposal excludes the possibility of imposing a fine in prison for life, while at the same time stating that there is no place for the execution of the fine in the event of a life sentence. Indeed, it does not make much sense to impose a fine in addition to life imprisonment, or, if it is already imposed, its execution cannot be allowed, since the imprisonment of life, even in the event of conditional leave, will continue until the end of the life of the sentenced person, and in such a case, the fine as a sub-penalty would be secondary to the indictment after the completion of the main penalty. It is also an important amendment in this proposal to the conduct of trading pharmaceutical substances suitable for the production of illegal medicinal products, which will be punishable by this amendment Btk. as a preparatory behaviour in the future. So these are pharmaceutical substances that are not a health product, and the perpetrators are not allowed to trade in them. Unfortunately, this behaviour has not occurred in one case in the past, so it is necessary to punish it at least as a preparatory behaviour. The next amendment, to which I would like to draw attention, is to commit an interruption to the administrative procedure in court, which has already been punishable, but in the future, as a qualified case, will be punished more severely. So if a person interferes with judicial proceedings, it will be more severely punished in the future in order to protect the smooth functioning of the justice system. A major amendment, or, at least, to avoid disputes over the last few weeks or months, to clarify the facts of the illicit acquisition of data, since in the future any conduct for which a public authority would do so would require a judicial authorisation. Thus, any activity, wherever it takes place, in or outside of a private home, involving a private individual or for other purposes, will be considered as a criminal offence of obtaining clearly prohibited data in the future, in the absence of a judicial license. I would also like to draw attention to an amendment to criminal proceedings. An interrogation through a closed-circuit telecommunications network or, as is better known, a modification of the institution or instrument of remote hearing shall also be made. In the future, remote hearing can be used much more widely. The investigating judge is able to make his decisions more quickly by means of a remote hearing against, for example, a suspect who is present at the detention facility. In order to avoid misunderstandings, such a decision may not only be taken at the expense of the person in the pre-trial detention, but it may, of course, also be for the benefit of him. So the fact that the investigating judge is able to make a decision faster and that his decision is less and less hindered by the fact that the person in custody is physically detained should not prevent him from making a decision about the transfer of pre-trial detention and using other, less restrictive measures. I would like to draw attention to another correctional amendment. In the future, in the event of a request from the penitentiary to the penitentiary for the removal of reintegration detention, in order to ensure that the sentenced person in the penitentiary who is not on parole, while in reintegration custody, poses as little risk and danger to public order and public security as possible, the bill proposes that the temporary detention of imprisonment may be ordered by the prosecutor. In addition to welcoming this amendment, I have doubts about the constitutionality of the proposal. I think we should try to decide as quickly as possible to bring a person who is otherwise serving his final judgment back to the Bv institution in order to eliminate public security and public danger. So it is not that he would be deprived of his freedom without a judicial judgment, but that he would be imprisoned, but that he could spend the last few months of his imprisonment under house arrest, so-called reintegration detention. However, if you behave in a manner that makes it clear that this reintegration detention should be lifted, there is a risk that you may escape, withdraw from the proceedings, and it is therefore necessary to continue the execution of imprisonment as soon as possible, and to return the sentenced person from reintegration detention to the penitentiary. So there's been a judicial decision here. There is also a judicial decision on reintegration detention itself, and in addition to this judicial decision and in addition to this judgment, the sentenced person subject to the judicial decision should, if necessary, be temporarily returned to the penitentiary on the basis of the decision of the prosecutor, and the sentence should continue, the prosecutor should decide on the temporary detention. [[15.30]] In addition to the fact that this is absolutely necessary for public security, the question is whether it is possible to bring the sentenced person back without a judicial decision from house arrest or reintegration detention to the prison penitentiary. This decision is certainly possible, since the point of reintegration detention is that it is a discount, a more favourable situation for the sentenced person. The prisoner should be aware that he is also included in the judicial decision that if he violates the rules of reintegration detention, he will be returned to the prison and will have to serve imprisonment. It's just a question of who can order this constitutionally. We will see if this temporary imprisonment of prosecutors meets constitutional criteria. I think that Parliament must now take this decision in order to protect public security, in order to bring people who are dangerous to public security back to prison as soon as possible. We'll see if this will stand the test of constitutionality. Dear House, The bill contains a number of motions or amendments that are necessary to correct and improve our criminal law laws. In all cases, it is the need for better applicability and public security that justifies these amendments. It is perfectly natural that criminal law laws are sometimes subject to review and it is difficult to judge when such reviews are necessary. The new Btk. In 2012, we have changed the new Criminal Code more than once since then, so it is not surprising that we are amending the Criminal Code. Criminal law must not become so rigid that criminals go before law enforcement agencies, in any case law, law must take the lead against crime. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-03-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next keynote speaker, Honourable Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, is the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I agree with what Congressman Répássy said at the end, almost as a close. So it is important to try not to put criminals in front of law enforcement agencies, although this is very difficult to achieve in chronological terms, I think that it is often almost impossible. But we are also sure to agree that efforts must be made to ensure that criminal proceedings and criminal law protect citizens against offenders as effectively as possible. There is indeed one question among the instruments which is constitutional and which is not, which is not, which can be constitutionally introduced and which is not, which is what Mr Répássy referred to; and obviously between our perceptions, and I always like to emphasise this and put it on the table in such cases, that the difference is not whether we agree with this objective, the difference is what kind of instrument we consider to be the most feasible. So there has never been a debate in Parliament about what I think is lucky if criminals get away with it, or if they don't, to put it simply, but there was a debate about what is constitutional, what is not, what is not, what is a suitable solution and what is not. I agree with what I have already done in this round, and since I have already done so, I am running ahead, as Congressman Répássy said here on the Be. amendment that this is possible. Obviously, if we are talking about the abolition of reintegration detention and the temporary conception of imprisonment, then there is one thing that must be taken into account, the time factor. So if you can do that, you have to set a very tight deadline until the court can review and decide. I think it's not necessarily unconstitutional, because detention is also possible, and it's only necessary to decide within 72 hours whether or not the court will order a preliminary arrest. I'm thinking something like that, but with even a tighter deadline in this regard, and then maybe the story can go, and it's justified. I would also like to add that, in principle, I am always in favour of speeding up these procedures as much as possible, in which case, decisions may be made by the court within hours or within a day. So let us not reduce the guarantee system, but rather resolve it so that a quick decision can be made. But once again, I am very sensitive to constitutionalism, and you may know that I have been here in Parliament for more than ten years now, but I think that in such a case such a provision may exist. As far as the whole of the proposal is concerned, not taking some details out now, at least at the beginning, I think that what can be expressed as criticism is e-administration and Be. to establish coherence between them; to say the better part of why now. This or should have been done much earlier, since this legislation, the e-administration law, was adopted in 2015. There would have been plenty of time to create the Be. And the harmony of this law. I do not say that it is better later than never, as my fellow Member Répássy said, that the new Be will enter into force in six months. So we have a new law that's gonna come into force, and now we're gonna bring it into line with the old one for six months, two years after we passed the e-Accessory Act. So why don't we just wait this six months? I think that the amendment of legislation at this speed and speed has an extremely damaging effect on the legal system and I cannot support it in any way. Obviously the new Pp. In relation to its entry into force, which is another, if you like, a larger package of this bill, the proposal amends the Be. I do not wish to talk about it for a long time, although it is mentioned in the proposal for a relatively long time, but it is correct and justified. I also consider it appropriate that, in the light of the harmonisation obligations, the provisions on national criminal cooperation are amended by the law, as some amendments based on experience in the application of the law - and I am already a little more nuanced here. I would like to say what I can agree with, at least in part. It is certainly good to include rules on the inclusion of a penalty or measure already implemented in the event of a change in the penalty previously imposed as a result of an exceptional remedy. That's right, it's really a shortcoming. I believe it is equally right that the preparation for forgery of health products should be punished. [[15.40]] My understanding has always been that crimes that pose a major threat to society really deserve to advance criminality, so that the punishment of preparation can be created. This was the case at the time with our package of public order laws tabled in 2008, where a number of such criminal offences, which threaten public security and public order, were also reported as a threat to public health. So here it is worth punishing the preparation, because there is no need to wait for more trouble to arise. In these crimes, there is a danger to society that criminal law can do so constitutionally and otherwise with a foundation. I'm a little more critical of interrupting the administrative procedure than modifying the legal situation of a criminal offence, because here you're taking it under the same roof to stop the administrative procedure, which, although... - now I'm telling you this, there's always a reverse role here to mitigate. What is the reason for this? In fact, if I raise the fact that the administrative procedure has been suspended, then, obviously, it loses its qualification, and it can be punished according to the basic factual sentence; so I'll relieve it here. In addition, differentiation is justified here, since it is not at all a matter of a bit of confusion, say, with the authority procedure or with such a severe renegade attitude that virtually makes it impossible for the administrative procedure to be successful, to be completed. By the way, this was basically invented in court proceedings at the time. If I remember correctly, this was also introduced in the 2008 Public Order Act, this crime itself, and it was precisely the disruption of court proceedings that made it possible. So it typically happens there, not elsewhere, although, of course, the legislation allows this to be enforced in any other official procedure. I can agree with that part - I always like the differentiation of laws, I would like to achieve this in many places, for example in the case of animal cruelty, because it is possible to make really fair judgments if not only the law-abiding but also the legislator is differential. Of course, these borders overlap from one to the other, so judicial discretion has plenty of ground. But let me ask you, just because a court case is being brought in as a classified case, doesn't mean you have to put an obstruction in the base case. I think - and I will put forward an amendment to this - this is a specific professional issue and not a political issue. What I'm saying is that you can keep it here, and you can expand the system of classified cases by one. Obviously, in my view, if this legislative intention, which you have formulated and, by the way, I consider it correct, is justified that in court proceedings this should be regarded as a matter of utmost importance, then the basic case will be to disrupt the administrative procedure, the qualified case: to disrupt the administrative procedure or to interfere with judicial proceedings, and let me say that a case of hyperqualified will be to stop the judicial proceedings; three penalties. I am also a partner in the fact that perhaps to bring the basic case down - so as not to be disproportionate to any other crime - to lower the penalty framework for the base case. We need to look at this professionally, I think, but in principle, I wanted to highlight this. On the other hand, what I cannot agree with very, very much is the possibility of further mitigation of fiscal fraud, formerly known as tax evasion. It's weird that I'm the one who's arguing for tightening up right now, but we got here. What we see is that they want to alleviate the punishment without limit even if the act was done in a commercial way. Ladies and gentlemen, To tell you the truth, I do not fully agree with the fact that in every case, tax evasion is subject to unlimited relief if someone pays the money to put it simply. Where's the state's criminal claim? Look at that, I didn't agree with the fact that, let's just say, not only the bagatell tax evasion, but also more serious cases. How's that? In all other cases, when it comes to simple fraud, embezzlement, any crime against property or economic crime, there is no such possibility. And why do you have it in tax evasion? For one reason only, to increase public tax revenue. Is that the principle? Is that the principle of making money? And we'd rather leave impunity for those who cheated on taxes? What? ! 'Cause I'll tell you again, double-gauge criminal policy is okay with apologizing for small-weight offenders, there's an opportunity to correct someone who doesn't commit serious crimes, and there's a law that needs to be enforced. This is the principle of dual-gauge criminal policy. In other words, for a tax evasion where they cheat, I don't know, 50 thousand forints of taxes, it's okay to have this opportunity. But where large taxes are stolen in a commercial way, why? I do not wish to be malicious and to say populist words as to why the Fidesz people now want to introduce this in the event of tax evasion, but honourable Members, I really do stick to the professional arguments: there is no justification for this. However, the enforcement of the state's criminal claim in such a case, in the case of a serious crime, must prevail. There should be no mediation, no unlimited mitigation, no possibility of anything. I am very surprised that this proposal comes from you. What I agree with is that the wiretap... I'm going to say this simply once again, was this MTV case, when the D.A.'s office interpreted it differently. I think it could have been interpreted as a felony, by the way. In the present case, the legislator has the opportunity, and I said this when we were on the government, and, obviously, I still maintain this position, so that if you do not agree with the judicial practice, you can correct me with a legislative amendment. I don't know if Mr Secretary of State is, for example, National... - I'm sorry, I'm still living in the former OIT, but at the meeting of the National Judicial Council, they tried to raise this question as a question of whether it might be possible to correct this with some legal unit decision, and it should not be touched by the legislation. But if you don't, it's okay, let's touch it. I can support that, because the act itself is dangerous to society to be a crime. I'm more happy when the court, if you like, corrects you, because you could be here. But, in the end, I can say that there is no real problem with the legislative amendment either. Despite all the positives I have listed, mainly because of my criticism of e-administration and my criticism of tax evasion, I cannot support this proposal and I will also propose it to my group. However, here, as there are many professional lines, I will present two amendments. One will apply to the abandonment of tax evasion, the withdrawal of the amendment, and the other, as I mentioned, to the new qualified case-by-case system. So if we change these, we can talk about it. If not, we cannot accept the proposal in this way. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-03-108	Thank you very much. After the main speech of the Fidesz and the keynote speech of the MSZP, we now have Congressman Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is indeed a very extensive bill before us, on which much has been said before me. I am also trying to involve some new aspects in the debate. There will, of course, be areas that have been said, but for everyone, some areas are closer to their hearts, perhaps they have already dealt with them, so the emphasis may shift, but that is why the debate in Parliament is good, if only more people would say so. I would point out that the proposal is trying to remedy some existing errors, and then, of course, as usual, it doesn't solve everything. [[15.50]] I would also like to take some of the points that should be highlighted or criticised in the proposal, so that we can obviously decide on our final support in the light of the proposed amendments. That is indeed a legitimate suggestion that Gergely Bárándy said that the timing of this amendment is strange. So, in fact, if this was brought in, why these amendments could not be made in the spring or earlier, or why they could not be made. Of course, these few months can now be accepted, better than nothing, or it could be said that other urgent amendments had to be found, such as secret data acquisition or illicit data acquisition - I will also mention this - but the point is that, of course, the time frame is not suitable for all points to be taken over. I'm going to highlight some of them. In order. In relation to the bankruptcy law, it is positive to ensure that the subject matter can be ordered. Of course, I do not need to stress the problem of withdrawing the various assets in such proceedings, and any proposal that improves or tries to prevent them is certainly eligible. So I was happy to say that. As well as the fact that, when amending the implementing law, the detained debtor can be deducted not only from his earnings but also from his other income in the future. This is a minor amendment, but for those who launch enforcement against the detained debtor, this could be an important addition. In the same way, a reduction in the amount of compensation received for prison conditions or their inadequacy also appears in a complementary manner. Of course, it could have been said that it would have been better if it had been able to appear when the prison law was amended, although we were skeptical with this amendment. I understand that in this way they expect that Strasbourg will be able to be satisfied with this regulation, and then, because of the prison conditions, the lawsuits against Hungary will not start with its mass. I don't know where this device is going to be. If it's appropriate, then, Mr. Secretary... [[Dr. Pál Völner: Partly.]] He's partially qualified. Then that's less convincing. Then we'll see what that means in practice. I don't have any recent information on what we've come up with, but it doesn't mean everything's perfect. There may be other amendments to the law to be made. In any case, we understood the effort, but this is the amount due to the right of the subject, which could be virtually a good part of the inmates in the future - although I know that prison building projects are also under way, there are not very few, so for the sake of fairness I mention here - but at the moment this could be due to a lot of prisoners. And although it is possible to deduct the damages and damages granted in respect of the crime in question, I would have done so in my heart, if we had already given such an amount, in respect of other crimes committed by the perpetrator. So that I don't describe it in a legal language: if someone commits a crime and goes to prison for a crime and receives compensation for prison conditions, then it's okay that compensation granted to the victim of that crime can be deducted from him, but if he committed another crime before him, then I think - and the same thing goes for the victim, the same compensation, the same fee - that this money he receives from the state because of the inadequacy of the prison conditions would allow me and Jobbik to deduct from this. But obviously this debate is not just about that, but since the proposal has complemented it, I thought it important to say this in relation to the detailed rules. What we have heard about the counterfeiting of medicines is a welcome step forward in that, if the preparation is to be punished, then perhaps the use of the internet is truly expansive and really increasing, and everyday use of the Internet has brought with it, of course, the facilitation of the marketing of different counterfeits, so it is also good to have criminal law tightened up in this respect. In the same way, the more serious punishment for disrupting the administrative procedure is something to be welcomed. It also happens quite often in the news that often court negotiators are not sacred, and often the prisoners, the accused and their small or more populous families often or more often - and here the one would be more than justified - disturb the order of the court or even threaten the judges. I must say that it is indeed justified to respond to this by a more serious criminal penalty. It is not acceptable that this can happen, even in one case, and, as I said, unfortunately, we are not talking about just one case. What I would like to say is one important point, the Btk. 422. The amendment to Section 5 of the Act concerning the illicit acquisition of data. Here we see a partial closure of a long polaremia. I would like to clarify the speakers before me so that everyone remembers that the MTV case was being dealt with. Well, in the MTV case, the spotlight is on the issue of legislation. [[On Dr. Gergely Bárándy's mark:]] And indeed, my fellow Member Bárándy rightly says, which is why the prosecution has stated that the interpretation of the current legislation is not what the legislator expects, and on which the Curia has also said - and from this point on, the absolute direct legislative obligation has started, because the fact that the prosecution thinks something is important in many respects, and in other respects we have seen a rather creative interpretation of the legislation from them, so that I am less touched by it - but if the Curia has also said that the interpretation of the prosecution was justified in this case, it was only in the case of private residences that it was possible to commit illegal data acquisition, in the case it is true that there is a legislative obligation on Parliament. But the case that was said was a completely different case, a camera in a ladies' room. So it's completely different. The case turned out to be a perverted peek-a-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo. The unsub was found who that was, but they couldn't punish him after all, because this is the new Btk. it wasn't a crime. And then, when these wiretaps were made at MTV, Magyar Television, by the leaders, it came to the public that there was a big problem with this law. Otherwise, he could have been in front of the National Assembly sooner. I also expected this to happen, and then I tabled an amendment, which became partially out of place. That was voted off by the Justice Committee on Monday. I will discuss why I think it is better, and I will also present an amendment to this, why this situation is not yet perfect, but I dare hope, or I think, that this proposal may come before the Parliament, perhaps the effort to submit this in the summer, and also to hold a press conference on the matter, may have fertilised the Ministry of Justice. Obviously, this is difficult to investigate, but it is certainly a good thing that we are dealing with the proposal. What's the problem with that? The problem is, otherwise, I would add in short parentheses that this is a case that is more difficult to deal with here, because the wording of the law really does not correspond to what Parliament would have wanted to achieve here. So in this case, I'm saying it's right that the Parliament is negotiating this, and it's right that it's modifying the Btk. What is the problem, however, is that the direction of the amendment leads us to believe that if someone outside the public or the public is listening to, observing, placing an observer device, this will be punishable. [[16.00]] It's for offices, for a job, but I ask you, is it for a mall's ladies' room? Well, no. So that's the problem, that's what we started out with, true, was a toilet camera of a workplace there, but it's not so far away that if a shopping centre, or even, say, a railway station, a bus station, a train station, or an airport, in any area open to community transport or even community transport, these cameras can't be punished under this rule, because public places or places open to the public are excluded from the criminal circle. This, however, should be amended, as I think this goes against public and public opinion, if, although we prohibit the forbidden surveillance of offices, but let's say, as I said, the women's toilet of a shopping mall can continue to be a target, even in front of peepers. I dare say this here because I trust that this will not be the final version that will be adopted and amended, and on the other hand I trust that the perverts will not be watching this parliamentary mediation now. I mean, perverted voyeurs, not in the sense that someone in themselves... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The one watching is the one! Defiance.]] Yes, my fellow Member, Barándy, who is watching such a legal debate, may already be qualified as one, but I would not like to advise the stalkers here, but would like to draw attention to the need to change this law. I will submit an amendment to it. And there's one more thing that's gonna make it possible for someone to observe the public area, because that makes it possible. So I'm gonna put a camera in front of my house, or not just in front of my house, but anywhere on the street, and I'm gonna monitor the people who are walking there, so I can get some serious data into that particular observer's property, where he goes, what kind of vehicle, what license number, I don't have to list. Of course, there can also be a public security aspect of this: if, say, a residential community can easily install a camera even on public property, then it can be said that this promotes public security. This may be the case, but it should also be better regulated, because believe me that if the criminal code remains incomplete in this respect, it will usually be used by people who are up to something bad and who are not saying anything else, so that the preparation of burglary offences in public areas can be done, surveillance of neighborhoods and surveillance of citizens. I think that the Hungarian legal system was stricter earlier, for a reason it was stricter, and although I am glad that we have this proposal before us, this wording is still waiting for an amendment. I am also glad that the Ministry of Justice or other fellow Members do so, but we are also trying to correct this law by proposing an amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. However, Mr Répássy, Member of the Council, Fidesz, has applied for a two-minute speech. Now's the time to tell me. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to two cases twice in one minute, or two minutes. One of the cases is the D.A.'s involvement in temporary detention. I would like to correct my own position after listening to the comments here. I suppose this is rare, but I did call this a solution of constitutional concern. I would like to correct it by raising constitutional questions. I think that's more accurate, because obviously Gergely Bárándy is right about the devil hiding in detailed regulation, in detail rules. For example, if it does not exceed the duration of detention, which the prosecutor may at any time decide under his authority, he may order, then I really think the term constitutional concern would be excessive. The other question is the issue of certain illicit data acquisition. Here I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, especially Gábor Staudt, to the fact that there is a great difference between the use of the surveillance camera or the drone and the use of secret service or covert devices. The big difference is that while, in the first case, the CCTV or drone is clearly visible to the observed, and it is obvious that such observation takes place in public areas or in any area, the secret service device or concealed device or simplified: the Candid camera is specifically designed and used for the purpose that the observed person does not know that he is being observed. So there is a big difference between methods that are subject to a judicial licence and methods that are prohibited in the illicit acquisition of data. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-112	Congressman Staudt, two minutes.
u2017-10-03-113	Thank you very much. For a moment I have become uncertain, my fellow Member, Répássy, because that is exactly what I said, but the problem is that this Btk. place will not forbid - I will read it - it will be outside the public or open to the public. Thus, it removes the public place and the place open to the public from the facts. So whatever's in there can be equipped with a Candid camera. Other than that. But we may have to settle this in the hallway, and I'm telling you this with absolute good intentions. So the wording of the law is quite clear to me that it removes the places open to the public from the scope of the facts. So that means that it's still not criminal. Of course, here - how should I say - we can have an interpretational debate, but I think that the wording of the legislation is quite clear. I totally agree with what you're saying, and I totally agree, which is why the situation is not good, so that's why it needs to be amended. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-03-114	Thank you very much. Congressman Bárándy, MSZP.
u2017-10-03-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would suggest that on this subject, because we have actually opened up a subject that is quite complicated to regulate, because other legislation also applies here, I think. So, for example, the acquisition of these cameras is subject to a legal ban, and then, when it comes to cameras installed on the street, it is regulated by a separate law, as far as I know, how to install it, how to be informed, and the rest. Nevertheless, when you go on the Internet, it's full of, say, webcams that monitor larger tourist attractions in the world. So you have to look at this, I think, on this subject, what can really be regulated, and what it is that needs to be regulated otherwise, because it can - I say it again - that there is a rule in other legislation that has already been established elsewhere. I'll just give you an example that, let's say, the acquisition of secret surveillance equipment is a crime. So I'm just saying this because, for example, this part provides a kind of solution. Now, of course, you can put the two in a set, but it may be enough for one public area. So I think that that is where we are now, but the parliamentary debate has clearly pointed out that it is worth once again to look at this fact for the Ministry, and, where appropriate, to run another round in it, whether it is necessary to change the text or not, because obviously the goal that we want to achieve is agreed by all of us. The result is that at least these kinds of secret observations become a crime, because according to the current interpretation of the prosecution, they are not. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-116	Thank you. No more people came forward for a two-minute speech. I open the possibility of further speeches by Members... [[There's no candidate.]] - and lock it up. [[16.10]] The general debate is therefore closed as no one has made any further comments. Mr. Secretary of State, as rapporteur, please.
u2017-10-03-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a few questions that came up, maybe I can answer them in part. The old Be. The amendment, as Mr Répássy mentioned, is necessary because there is this six-month period until its new entry into force, and the e-administration rules will apply from 1 January, so that the whole administration should be involved. In fact, the Parliament adopted it a little later here at Be., and because of the proper preparation time, 1 July is the date of entry into force, which may not be the case at the start of the whole process, but hopefully this will also help prepare for the introduction of new rules during the application of the law at the same time. With regard to reintegration detention, it is the prison judge who will then turn the interim measure into a final one, so that the judicial guarantee remains in the course of administration. Mr Staudt Gábor's question about why, now, I have partially answered this information about Be. - entry into force. Congressman Bárándy was here during the abuse of the budget as to why this business got out of the loop. On the enforcement side, the NAV indicated that, in practice, business-likeness is almost always present in this case. So it's practically classified beyond that... - so that's why this amendment came, but, for example, it can't be applied to repeaters. The part about paying public costs is in the public interest, since public tasks are financed by the State. This is not only a collection approach, but also a cover for expenditure pages, so this is also a part of this. Why you came to our table now, Congressman Staudt's question was practically this observational story. We had to wait for the Curia's decision to complete the regulation, and that's why there's this time delay. As far as public places are concerned, other facts also protect the general public, so there is also the possibility of misuse of personal data and other options for litigation or action, but at Commission level, obviously, this will come up in the context of the amendment and then we can talk about it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition follows. The general debate on the amendment of Law No 1 and of certain related legislative provisions until closure. The government referral is T/17570. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State for Justice, the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The 1996 LVII on the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition. Act T/17570 amending Act T/17570 and certain related legislative provisions The purpose of the bill is to fully regulate the procedures of the competition authority in a changed legal environment with the new Codes of Procedure which will enter into force on January 1, 2018, ensuring that effective and effective enforcement of competition law is maintained in order to ensure effective enforcement of competition law. At the end of last year, the Parliament adopted the Act on General Administrative Rules, which is CXL of 2004 on the general rules of administrative procedure and service. Replaced by the Act as the General Code of Procedure for Authority Procedures from January 2018 onwards. The new Code of Procedure of the Authority, together with the Act on Administrative Procedure, which will also enter into force on 1 January 2018, and with the new civil procedure, aims to ensure the legal functioning of the public administration and the fair trial of customers by means of paradigmatic changes. One of the paradigm shifts is the Ket. As opposed to its regulatory logic, allowing a complete derogation from certain specific procedures as a code for subsidiary application, Ákr. does not allow such a derogation. The regulatory procedures in which, by their very nature, a specific set of rules cannot be settled in the rules governing all other procedures of a general procedural law have therefore been taken out by the legislator. from the scope of this Regulation. On the basis of the Parliament's previous decision, the competition monitoring procedure is also such a procedure, but its regulation adapted to the new regulatory environment makes it necessary to amend the rules of procedure in force. As a consequence, as of January 2018, competition supervision procedures, i.e. cartel suspicion, abuse of dominant position or significant market power, unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers or procedures to investigate mergers of undertakings, will not be subject to Ákr as a background rule. its provisions, the Ket. The existing procedural arrangements adapted to its regulatory system need to be adapted in several parts. The regulation of the new administrative procedure introducing significant changes to administrative proceedings has an impact on all official procedures, which also calls for Tpv. the adaptation of its relevant rules. The need to adapt to the new civil order became necessary because of the Tpvt. ANNEX II The enforcement of the substantive rules contained in Chapter III of the Act on Competition is subject to a judicial procedure, in respect of which Tpvt, as in the case of damages for damages caused by an infringement of competition law, is subject to a judicial procedure. its rules in force lay down specific rules which differ from those of the civil order in force. In particular, I would like to mention the question that, despite the application of the competition monitoring procedure, the competition law, as amended by the bill, does not completely break the lines relating to the general regulation of administrative procedures. The bill is the standard - the Akr. It also uses the codification practice described in its ministerial statement that it also applies when regulating procedures that do not belong to the Ákr. to apply certain provisions of the General Code of Procedure. This legislative solution increases the transparency of the procedures concerned, contributes to the establishment of a uniform and guaranteed procedure, and, in addition, it is not negligible that such practice is also useful for the economy, since there is no need to establish a completely new procedural order in the individual sectoral laws. In this case, this is only necessary because the Akr. The exclusion from the scope of the competition surveillance procedure does not mean that there is an air gap, the regulation must continue to be in line with the legal system as a whole, and, in particular, when it is taken into account that Kp applies equally to the competition monitoring process. The rules of the Akr. They are based on its legal institutions and conceptual system - it would be particularly against legal certainty if specific sui generis solutions were applied in all aspects of official procedures. Accordingly, in respect of general procedural law institutions which should also apply in the application of competition law, such as representation and power of attorney, the fixing of procedural acts or the conditions for the form and finalization of decisions, and the enforcement of decisions, and where there is no need to derogate from Ákr as it stands. from the provisions of the proposal of the Akr. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. However, this legislative solution does not affect the sui generis nature of the competition monitoring procedure, but only its integration into the legal system is ensured. At the same time, the autonomous regulatory regime will be able to establish procedural rules in such a way that, in the event of any specific competition procedural regulatory need arising in the future from EU law or international obligations in this field, it is possible to establish the rules of procedure in such a way as to enable Ákr to do so. do not need to change its general set of rules. In this connection, it is important to refer to the proposal for a directive on the strengthening of the situation of competition authorities in the Member States, which is currently subject to legislative procedures in the European Union, with a view to ensuring a more effective application of the law and the proper functioning of the internal market, which is expected to lead to further changes in procedural rules in the near future. [[16.20]] The purpose of this bill is, therefore, that the system of rules of procedure relating to competition supervision procedures for effective, effective and effective enforcement of competition law, as laid down in the regulatory framework so far, is that of Ákr. , in the new procedural regulatory framework for administrative litigation and new civil order, it should also be preserved in the same way as the current one, in a way that allows effective and effective enforcement, avoiding any disruption in competition proceedings, while ensuring that the positive developments hoped for by procedural reform can be achieved as far as possible in this area as possible. The legislative objectives did not include the introduction of conceptual changes to competition law legislation; we specifically wanted to refrain from substantive amendments to substantive provisions. The purpose was solely to incorporate the existing set of rules into the new procedural environment. However, despite this limited objective, the scope of the amendments was comprehensive in the light of the internal context of the law, which justified the amendment of the competition law in the context of the so-called salad laws, which are not linked to the new procedural rules. However, the extensive amendment, Honourable Parliament, has also provided an opportunity for minor corrections to the rules of procedure of the competition authority, which do not represent a conceptual change, which, based on the experience of the law enforcement of recent years, can contribute to the enforcement of customer rights and effective management of procedures. Adjustments have also been made to strengthen the internal coherence of the law and to ensure better transparency of its structure. Please allow me to present some of these to you now. In order to bring it closer to the EU rules, in order to create a more predictable regulatory environment for businesses, the bill separates the so-called de minimis market share threshold for horizontal agreements between competitors and vertical agreements between non-competitors and regulates it at 15%, i.e. at a more favourable level than at present and in a manner consistent with EU rules. The proposal introduces as a separate type of procedure, in cases where it is likely that the decision of the authority to take note of a concentration or to accept an undertaking was the result of the misleading behaviour of the client, the procedure for monitoring competition which reveals that abuse, at the end of which the legal consequences of the decision which is still contained in the law, may be applied. The investigation and withdrawal under an autonomous procedure gives customers greater guarantees and stronger powers to the authority, such as the possibility of imposing a substantial fine. The bill removes the limit on the submission of a single application for the provision of the data or document or for the extension of the time limit for making a declaration and leaves the examination of the substance of the application submitted for several times to the investigator or the competition council acting, allowing consideration of the circumstances. More favourable to customers, eight days will be available in the future to make an investigation objection to an irregularity in the procedure, instead of five days so far. Dear Parliament, The bill has been prepared in close cooperation with the Hungarian Competition Authority and has been widely consulted on the part of those involved in the application of the law in the context of social consultation. The comments received in the course of social consultation have also contributed to the development of a more effective competition law that can be better applied in practice. Dear House, The adoption of the bill described above is necessary in order for the procedural part of the competition law to continue to apply after 1 January 2018. The adoption of the bill will also contribute to the more effective functioning of competition law procedures. I therefore ask you to support the bill, following its discussion, in voting with your consent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, For the first time in the order of the keynote speeches, the representative of Fidesz, Mr Jenő Manninger, may speak. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-121	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Competition law is intended to protect economic competition and at the same time to prevent consumer harm. One of our most European areas of law is that the competition rules of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are directly in force and applicable in all Member States, including Hungary. Dear House, At the end of last year, the Parliament adopted the Act on General Administrative Rules. The new Code of Procedure of the Authority will ensure the legitimate functioning of the public administration with paradigmatic changes, the right of customers to a fair trial. One of the paradigm shifts is that there will be no future derogation for specific procedures. The administrative procedures in which, by their very nature, a specific set of rules cannot be settled under a general procedural law have been removed from the administrative order. On the basis of the Parliament's previous decision, the competition monitoring procedure is also such a procedure, but its regulation adapted to the new regulatory environment makes it necessary to amend the existing procedural standards. The bill before you has been drawn up in close cooperation with the Hungarian Competition Authority, and in the context of social consultation a wide range of experts have also been consulted on the part of those involved in the application of the law. The aim of the proposal is therefore to ensure a uniform management of the adjustments to the rules of the Competition Act in a comprehensive manner. The bill contains the amendments resulting from the experience of law enforcement in recent years, which do not represent a conceptual change, while at the same time contributing to the enforcement of customer rights and effective management of procedures. As a general rule, no new competition institutions will be introduced. The most important change is that all competition monitoring procedures become an ex officio procedure. I would like to point out from the bill, like Mr Secretary of State, that, as far as the so-called de minimis market share threshold is concerned, the threshold for horizontal agreements, i.e. agreements between competitors and vertical agreements, i.e. agreements between non-competitors, is separated, and the latter is set at 15% in the proposal. This brings domestic legislation closer to EU practice and creates a more predictable regulatory environment for businesses. On the basis of the amendment, it is possible to apply the de minimis exception even with a higher market share in vertical agreements with a lower impact on market competition. This will substantially reduce the burden on companies with a low market share on competition compliance. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill ensures the consistency of competition law with the law on general administrative regulations and strengthens the protection of economic competition, so I ask my fellow Members to support the motion. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-122	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2017-10-03-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This seemingly legislative harmonisation and regulation of the functioning of the market in a normal rule of law would be really appropriate. Therefore, if the Fidesz regime of power were not to amend the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition, it could even be said that it is appropriate and go, go, go. At the same time, in an environment that we are experiencing, making the rules or procedures of the competition office possible only on its own initiative, this seems a bit of a concern to us. I do not want to say what the two of you have already said about what this proposal is dealing with, but I would like to make some comments on the details. The administrative procedural law, i.e. the Ket. Act on General Administrative Rules replacing it - which was also called Ákr. by the Minister of State in the second part of his introduction - and the amendments to the Act on Ákr., which rewrites the sectoral legislation, will enter into force on 1 January 2018. [[16.30]] At the same time, the Act prohibiting unfair market conduct and restrictions on competition has been removed from Ákr. It is therefore necessary to lay down the rules of procedure which are currently lacking in the legal system for the proceedings before the Economic Competition Authority. By the way, this is also suspicious of why Ákr. had to take out competition law at the last minute, but based on the events of life, perhaps a concrete analysis can show why this was important to someone. It may be precisely because Hungary does not wish to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This draft was discussed on the government website between 23 and 28 August 2017, in two other versions. Version (a) does not require any significant budgetary resources according to the ex ante impact assessment sheet, but the regulation in version (b), including the modification of the salary system, would amount to an increase of HUF 262 million in the budget of the Hungarian Competition Authority, or would rather have meant an increase of 28 per cent. The government has decided on the submission of version (a), i.e. the version without changing the salary system, which is now lying on the Parliament's table. Perhaps the ancient Biblical saying not to bind the mouth of the printer ox to the principle of applying it in Hungary, we believe that it would be better to pay well the GVH's employees, because the biblical metaphor may not work in this area in the 21st century. In the century. The bill also contains data management provisions. It would be very nice to know what the bill said 26. The President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information seems at least concerned because the rule of paragraph 4 is that, for example, personal data obtained in connection with a single complaint may be used without limitation in any other proceedings of the Hungarian Competition Authority under this Act. This does seem a bit of a concern from the point of view of information management. This problem is not really solved by the provisions on closed handling of data. The National Data Office - I have just given its long name to this authority - does not have a resolution on this bill on its website, so we did not know what the Data Protection Office had to say about this process of data processing, which we found problematic, so an extended, free-to-use data use. A positive element of the present proposal is that the readers of the very low, otherwise normal, or of the low-quality codification level can at last hold in their hands an unsatisfying set of rules in the form and wording of this proposal, so this is a demanding proposal from a codification point of view. Another issue is that the logic of the new system of procedures, terminology, general administrative order, redress rules are adapted to administrative order, so since that law and all related amendments were rejected by our faction, I would not like to waste too much of a word on them, I would prefer to highlight some of the other provisions in the bill. Article 1 § 2 clarifies the interpretation provision for small agreements, so-called de minimis agreements. On the basis of Community competition rules, agreements of minor importance, in Hungarian, are generally not capable of affecting competition, having a significant impact on the internal market, i.e. without prejudice to Community competition rules on the basis of their level. The Commission communication on small agreements: the application of this criterion is subject to the condition that the combined market share of the companies entering into the agreement, if the companies are real or in principle, i.e. potential competitors, does not exceed 10% of their share, whereas, if they are not competitors, they do not exceed 15% of their market share. Well, that, between us, is not a small number, so to speak, could mean very high values. At the same time, the competition authority of a Member State may take the thresholds into account when determining the perceived or undetectable nature of the restriction on competition, but is not obliged to comply with them. The threshold only quantifys what is likely to constitute a noticeable restriction of competition. In Hungarian law, a share of less than 10 per cent has so far been considered as minor, although it would be only theoretically acceptable to increase the share of the non-competitor agreement to 15 per cent. In fact, the acquisition and wealth growth of businesses and persons close to the government experiencing market expansion also warns the legislator, that good faith should be set aside and that this rule of the proposal serves the interests and protection of certain fidesz oligarchs, not 10, but 15 percent, because in absolute numbers it could mean hundreds of billions. Preventing concentrations that restrict competition would be the primary task of the Economic Competition Authority. It is not that the government should have feared that the GVH would act with great zeal against the market-taking steps of the lunar yard, as this was the first step of the government to replace the entire GVH management, but, on the basis of a lex adopted in 2013, the government considered the merger of undertakings as of national strategic importance in the public interest, so it classified it in a different category. Such a concentration does not need to be notified to the Competition Authority, so the farmer is free to take up the market in any way. The submission shall be made in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 8. However, it can be seen that the provision of the President of the GVH, which states his decision-making powers in connection with the GVH's budget, does not change the convincing appearance that in many cases the GVH acts according to the taste of the government, otherwise it would be difficult to manage, so in Hungarian, it is not very independent in terms of its budget. [[16.40]] It is well known that more than half a million Hungarians earn their living abroad, so many have migrated in recent years, but at the same time we see that only one of the Hungarians looking for their luck was worth returning to Hungary, this person is called Andy Vajna. Press reports confirm that the last time South Hungary, Bors and Kisalföld came into the hands of the son of gambling and the greater salvation of the governing parties. There is, therefore, an area in which the Economic Competition Authority has generously waived the application of the provisions prohibiting the acquisition of decisive influence. It is also worth remembering that in 2010, as I mentioned, the Hungarian Competition Authority was the first one to be led by the new government in order to allow a narrower circle of acquaintances and people with confidence to enter the key places. The Hungarian Competition Authority has been fine-tuned to the system of national cooperation, and is appreciably refraining from examining interest circles in critical large investments, even though it should be a guardian of fair competition. For example, Elios Zrt has not been studied. His affairs, which struck down a LED market in a decisive way, and then somehow receded. But they also backed out of the 2012 melon cartel case by law, for example, when the representatives of the large chains agreed with the Minister of Agriculture and the Secretary of State that nobody could bring the price of the melon below 99 HUF, even if they had been able to obtain it significantly lower from other sources. They got away with this by not investigating the case by the State Competition Authority, but by the Minister of Agriculture himself. In the regulatory review carried out by the bill, it would have been worth considering the abolition of the rule under which the merger cannot be prohibited and cannot be subject to a condition merely on the grounds that the GVH missed the administrative deadline. If the GVH violates the time limit in the merger investigation, it may give rise to a prohibited concentration, i.e. its activity may result in a significant reduction in competition on the market on the basis of the practice of agreeing to silence. This would not be permissible in Hungary, but the practice shows too generous a certain direction. On this basis, the otherwise well-codified, regular law is doubtful as to what operational result it will bring in practice, and therefore it is not certain that we can support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-03-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member István Hollik, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. There is basically a professional proposal ahead of us, but I would have been surprised if opposition representatives had not come to mention the name of Lőrinc Mészáros or Andy Vajna. That's why I was surprised that István Józsa didn't get this far until the 12th minute, and he didn't even say the name of Lőrinc Mészáros. [[Dr. István Józsa: Right!]] But I suppose Dániel Z. Carpathian will make up for this shortage. On the other hand, I think that we can agree that the protection of the Hungarian economy and competition in the market is a priority and that it is also important that competition rules are adapted to the current expectations of the economy and that they should be transparent. In this respect, we must say that competition law is a paved road for all of us, for Hungary, because, as Mr State Secretary said, it is one of the most important EU law, since the rules of competition in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are directly applicable and apply in the Member States, including in Hungary. Therefore, we cannot really deviate from this, there are only minor differences in implementation in some Member States. As the speakers before me have mentioned, the amendment of the Competition Act is necessary in several respects. On the one hand, the Ket. will be replaced by the Akr. , therefore, the General Administrative Rules Act, which enters into force on 1 January 18 and there are two other important laws, namely the Law on Administrative Rules, i.e. the Kp. Law and the Civil Procedure, Pp., with which the Competition Act had to be combed in any way. It is important to mention that social consultation has taken place in the case of the law, and although my fellow Member Józsa here indicated that the deadline was limited, it seems that this was not too short for the recipients of the social consultation, for the professional organisations, since almost all the relevant professional organisations gave their opinions, from the Hungarian Competition Association to the Joint Venture Association to the AmCham, American-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce. So what we can see is that many people have given their opinions, and I believe that these comments have also contributed to the development of a more effective and more practical competition law. During the drafting of the draft law, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out, two main objectives were to be pursued, namely that the amendment of the rules of procedure of the Competition Act should be made in order to adapt it to the new Ákr., the new administrative order, the civil order and the correction of the procedural rules resulting from the experience of the past years, which do not represent a conceptual change, while at the same time contributing to the aspects of customer rights and effective management of procedures, these aspects must be enforced, which is the purpose of this amendment. In respect of general procedural law institutions which must also apply in the application of competition law, or in the present case, there is no need to derogate from the laws of Ákr. from the provisions of the proposal of the Akr. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Consequently, it is also necessary to introduce into the Competition Act certain concepts introduced in Ákr. in the provisions laying down specific rules. I must refer here to the finality of the decision, or to the detention or seizure; they have not so far been published in the competition law. About the details. Specifically and specifically, unlike Ákr., most of the following issues are regulated in the competition law in their entirety: the regulation of exclusion, the concept of the client, the processing of data, the viewing of documents and the clarification of the facts. This is one of the important changes. The other one, which has already been referred to by several people, is that, in order to bring the regulatory environment more predictable for businesses into line with the EU rules, the limit or threshold for horizontal agreements, i.e. between competitors and vertical non-competitors, is separated from one another in terms of the so-called de minimis market share threshold, and this is indeed regulated by 15% for the latter, i.e. at a more favourable level than at present and better adapted to EU rules. [[16.50]] The creation of consistency with EU law increases legal certainty in itself, as it can be excluded that only because of the involvement of trade between Member States, an agreement should be considered different between economic operators and, in the case of vertical agreements with a lower impact on market competition, it is appropriate to allow the application of a de minimis exception with a higher market share. This will substantially reduce competition compliance problems faced by companies with a low market share and the burdens they have been faced with in the past. An important detail is that a new type of procedure appears in the law where it is likely that the decision of the authority to acknowledge, authorise or accept a concentration was due to the misleading behaviour of the client; this is the independent monitoring of competition which reveals this abuse, which can be applied at the end of the procedure to the legal consequences of the withdrawal of the decision already contained in the law. The investigation and withdrawal under an autonomous procedure gives customers greater guarantees and stronger powers to the authority, such as the possibility of imposing a substantial fine in a different way from the previous system. I would also like to mention a change that has not yet been mentioned that it appears to customers in a favourable manner, as a novelty compared to the rules already in place, that, according to the proposal, it will not only be possible in the decision to grant the competition council a payment discount, but also after compliance with the conditions laid down by law. Therefore, in all cases before the expiry of the delivery deadline and after the execution has not yet been ordered. So these are the most important details. I think that the amendment before us is indeed close to the EU competition law and creates more transparent relations and makes the operation and procedures of customers as well as of the Hungarian Competition Authority easier. For this reason, the bill before us can be supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpat, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-10-03-127	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, a debate, which even promises to be boring, looks like a professional - and here the emphasis is on the appearance - began to unfold, but my fellow Member, István Hollik, was able to kick it to the ground. I'm trying to take a deep breath, and I'm trying to focus on what we originally wanted. But don't take it as an insult, my fellow Member, that if your economic policy is full of forms of abuse along which the activities of public companies, companies and public authorities are at least questionable, then there will always be opposition power to mention it. Where appropriate, they were able to transfer entire industries into private hands in such a way that only one or two oligopolistic players could remain there. The gambling market is also an illustrious example. You cannot sell this either at a retail forum or at a professional forum, that this has all happened ethically and in a fair national economy. You may find legislation in force, and you may be able to justify how you have complied with the legislation in force, let us say, the partial dissipation of the gambling market, and then the re-enactment of the remainder, I think it is possible, but that you will not be able to raise ethical standards, at least in a widely accepted way, I am quite certain of this too. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) We can see, therefore, that the package before us, which had to be drawn up from a legislative harmonisation point of view, contains very forward-looking and sensible things - even the new type of procedure - would have been substantially better worked out if they had started working on it with regard to the organisation system of the second Orbán government, because there was still a separate consumer protection committee for the Parliament, which was perfectly suitable for carrying out appropriate professional debates, could have played a preparatory role. Unfortunately, in this government cycle, this committee was abolished, incorporated into the Committee on Economic Affairs, where, obviously, the weight of consumer protection issues has fallen despite the best of intentions. And we also need to see that the system of consumer protection itself has been transformed, partly incorporated into one of the organs, the Hungarian National Bank, which should otherwise be monitored, supervised, and in many cases returned to the right path, because what happened in the last year of the Hungarian National Bank raises huge question marks at least. However, we also need to see that the GVH acts arbitraryly in certain cases and does not act arbitraryly when it should; when TV2 and Andy Vajna have different transactions and approve them, while at the same time punishing RTL and its associates, there is no need to be competent, this raises certain questions in the layman. Who is right may be the subject of a professional lawyer's debate and the outcome of it, but in order not to hold these debates, because let's say that István Hollik does not like them, this is quite novel in the Hungarian Parliament, as you have just predicted what we will be talking about from the opposition forces. This may have been a good way in the '60s, but now almost thirty years ago, it was supposed to be a change of system, and it was practically a success. I'm very confident that the change of regime will happen sooner or later. No, but on the subject: the activities of the GVH itself could also be given a mass or two, but we have to say that, on the one hand, our opposition colleagues fired in detail in this type of weapon, my fellow Member from LMP also held a special press conference on it, so I do not want to go into detail on the accusations that the GVH's own car purchases were made by millions of people flying around - 18.2 million in front of me, according to the press report, but very serious millions - and I do not want to talk about the fact that the Competition Office is supposedly paying Diplomat Magazine HUF 6 million a year to monitor the work of the Parliament, for which there are, by the way, very competent bodies here in the House, too. If you want to get a professional press visit in Hungary, you should contact the experts here in the House and get professional material on your desk, we can safely say that. So I do not want to focus more on issues relating to the GVH itself, because this is something that we do in the course of the annual report, and there are some kinds of answers. However, it is important to talk about the fact that the Competition Authority imposed a total fine of HUF 5.4 billion on cartel companies and companies in breach of competition law in the previous year. At the same time, there are at least two connecting data that pokes the eye. One is that most of the signals are essentially related to public procurement procedures, about 60-65 percent of cartel suspects are related to similar procedures, and it is primarily EU-funded programmes that are suspicious. So, given the crowd of money here, the 5.4 billion fine, I can also say that it can be considered minimal. Even in the first half of the previous term, my fellow Member, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, had a very strong ambition to raise the fine that could be imposed on multinational companies and to carry it out of opposition. I recall a five-to-ten-fold increase in the limit of possible fines. However, it can also be said here that the GVH's activity requires an elemental demand for penalties which are dissuasive along the sea of abuse of the vast public procurement market. What we see here is that in all cartel cases - the press reports most often refer to the so-called sewing business, which has a health aspect - the office finally imposed a fine of HUF 270 million in total, although the total amount of money that is circulating in the entire market is huge. So I'm not sure this is going to be the first and best form of deterrent, but we really want you to get close to it. The other serious area, which has also caused serious problems in the constituency where I started at the time, is, therefore, the relations of which I know as well as I can, and that is, consumer protection itself. [[17.00]] For 40 percent of all cases closed by the GVH are well known for consumer protection and, in particular, there have been an extremely large number of complaints about the so-called health check and product presentations, the regulation of which has been pushed forward for years by both the government and the related bodies, in an outrageous way. In Obuda, we have managed to prevent these old-timers from being fooled and otherwise very vile by the fact that our own activists and fellow members have sat down on these events, and, if you will, they have been trotted apart. And since no one else has signalled, and should have signaled to the organizer in the direction of the notary, to the local government, they have indicated to ours, and obviously to the authorities. Finally, these events were impossible. But it is not expected at national level that local civil activists everywhere will achieve the elimination of similar scams. So obviously, there's no way to transfer responsibility to the GVH here. It would be a government function, it would be up to the Parliament to pass through, to vote on laws that do not try to regulate the premises, not where the representative of the company organising the product presentation can conclude a loan transaction with the injured party, because here we are talking about later victims in almost every case. We should simply ask whether Hungary, our national economy, needs any form of product presentation. Is this form necessary? Is there any reason in Hungary that people may or may not engage in attempts at deception in this way? My answer is clearly that there is no need to do this, and we want to go through this kind of regulation. I'm so sorry this didn't work out. And once again, I do not hold the GVH responsible for the fact that there have been restrictions, but these restrictions only apply to where the credit transaction can be signed after the scam, and they still leave the gates that should not be left open. Finally, as the last, very important topic, we simply need to analyse the situation and relations on the media market, as the Hungarian Competition Authority alone seems to agree that the Lapcom Group should join Andy Vajna's companies, and that the county paper market should be reorganized to a degree that, in my view, lacks fair market background. That's pretty amazing. We've seen office turn a blind eye to certain transactions. We have seen that he may have handled certain cases in a flexible way, where his discretion allows for flexibility. But with such impertinence, when the MKB lends to Vajna for the transactions involved, we may not have seen such a face-turn and eye-slap in the last 27 years. It is quite amazing and outrageous that the GVH has assisted in this transaction and transaction. If anyone is, then I will certainly not overdefense Magyar RTL Television Zrt., but in other cases, both authority and supervision will act with a Draconian rigour. If you have a reason or no reason to do so, consider it yourself, I can only have a personal opinion on it and obviously have a professional opinion on it. Obviously we do not want to interfere with the day-to-day operation of the GVH, but it is quite certain that along certain transactions, such as, say, the complex and complete acquisition of county newspapers and the construction of the Andy Vajna media empire, there would have been plenty to intervene here. Quite simply, a media overweight has developed in certain segments, which excludes fair and market-based processes in the future. All the fact that the lending of the MKB is behind this raises strong question marks. So, after next year's elections, if fair accountability takes place, there will certainly be a lot of work to be done in these areas. But what we need to clearly see is that in January this year, the GVH wanted to ban the acquisition of a 30 percent stake in RTL, but at the same time, when the county paper market was practically absorbed by a single interest, no matter what kind of backup assets and backup companies were deployed. Then we saw that the assistance was complete, the silence was complete. Obviously, one would like to see not only personal consequences at a time like this, but even though a power axis is really trying to subdue everything, it would be expected that no one would assist. However, what we see now is that, on the one hand, the State Audit Office also assists with certain government intentions in such a way that it is already in breach of existing legislation, we are now seeing an inspection of the GVH, which is completely unworthy of a professional organisation. We very much hope that this process will finally stop, and not become part of an election campaign. After all, next year can also be the year of purification in this respect. Finally, let me share a personal hope with those present. I would very much like, within the framework of a separate consumer protection committee, consumer protection itself to become a priority area, as it was intended to be from 2010, and for this, the reception skills were excellent. What we need to see is that healthy processes have started in this area, and then it has become the banking sector special tax, transaction tax, and then the transfer of all these burdens, and then the admission of transfer. Finally, the government's consequences and the lack of any conclusions of the legislator have led these experiments to a clear failure. I very much hope that, in order to protect Hungarian customers, unfortunately often future victims, we will be able to make recommendations above the parties, which will return the Hungarian national economy to this direction. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There are just a few questions that have been raised, and then, obviously, at committee level, we can better discuss these issues. My fellow Member, István Józsa, mentioned that Article 26 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union was to be replaced by the following: § 4 of the regulation has already been included in the rules, and at the de minimis it has been said that we are approaching the EU thresholds, so we are moving in a way of harmonisation with them. They are not based on merger rules, but on prohibited restrictive agreements. Several individual cases have been mentioned, but that is not what this regulation is about, so I cannot deal with these points here. What's more, why he's different from Akr. Well, it regulates a specific area, so we need a specific regulatory system. It has been separate and could not be integrated without compromises into the current general framework. As regards the Commission and other distributions, we would not mention them, because they were not the subject of the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending the legislation on the harmonisation of insurance and payment legislation until closure. The government referral is T/17566. is available on our IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Agnes Hornung, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Madam Secretary, your timeframe is 30 minutes. You have the floor, please.
u2017-10-03-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On behalf of the Ministry of National Economy, I have once again brought you legislation as a result of an EU transposition. This financial legislation also aims to strengthen consumer protection, improve the quality of financial services and increase transparency. In addition, this proposal contains a number of technical amendments aimed at clarifying legislation in the budgetary area and also improving harmonisation with regard to EU legislation, thereby facilitating sound budgetary management. Dear Parliament, The main part of the bill before us is the transposition of two directives. One is the Insurance Sales Directive and the other is the Payment Directive. First, I would like to give you a brief account of the first directive on insurance sales. The purpose of this Directive is to protect customers' rights more effectively and, to this end, the rules now cover not only insurance intermediaries but also direct sales of insurance companies. [[17.10]] The Directive states that persons who sell insurance products must undergo annual documented professional training in order to always have up-to-date knowledge. Information requirements will also be extended and tightened: customers will be given much wider information on insurance and will be able to make a more informed decision. The information will also need to specify from whom and what kind of remuneration the insurance intermediary will receive in relation to the sale of the insurance product concerned. The strictest requirements appear in line with insurance-based investment products due to their complexity, since these products will only be sold by advice in the future, and customers will also be informed annually of changes, transactions and costs in those insurance products that occurred that year. It is also important to note that in the future customers will be provided with a uniform format of product information for non-life insurance products, so that they can be sure that all necessary information will be provided to them in a simple and understandable manner. It can therefore be seen that the transposition of the Insurance Sales Directive will bring about greater transparency and greater customer protection after its entry into force. The other priority directive transplant I mentioned was the transposition of the Payment Directive. The primary objective of the directive, and thus the legislative proposal we are discussing, is to protect consumers even more effectively and to further strengthen the internal market, to make full use of the benefits of the internal market, both by consumers and by traders and by businesses. In recent years, many new players in the financial sector, called fintech companies, as well as more and more innovative payment products and services, have appeared. As a result of their novelty, they fell outside the scope of the previous Payment Directive. In view of the protection of customers, the development of regulation and the level playing field, the revised Directive has included them in its scope; it has done so by ensuring a level playing field for existing and new market players, and it makes it easier for new payment methods to reach a wider market. At the same time, the main aspect is to ensure a high level of consumer protection throughout the Union for the use of payment services by Member States. These provisions will lead to efficiency gains in the payment system as a whole as well as improvements in the quality of services. Another advantage for consumers is that regulation will entail an increase in the supply of payment services and their transparency. With the development of digitalisation, a number of complementary but new service elements have also appeared in recent years. For example, an account information service or a payment initiation service. The regulation and supervision of these services and the provision of service providers have become unprovoked in order to maintain and protect the security of customers. In addition, it is also in the interests of consumers to impose an even wider and more stringent obligation of competent national supervisory authorities to cooperate among themselves and with the European Banking Authority and the Commission and to promote consumer confidence in the payment market. Overall, it can therefore be seen that the aim of the proposed legislation is to create greater transparency and stronger consumer protection. Honourable Members, I would also like to draw your attention to a few minor, other amendments, which are also here because of the obligation to implement the EU directives. One is that the legislative amendment proposal clarifies the powers of decision-making and control of budgetary balance rules that complement the rules on medium-term budgetary planning. These amendments are intended to comply with the EU medium-term fiscal framework directive and are included in the bill as requested by the Commission. It is important to point out that the initial transposition of the directive has been properly implemented in a decisive way, and these amendments are now only fine-tuning. In addition, in the field of insurance, even the law on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance is amended, which also serves to protect customers and to widen information obligations. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, I would just like to say that compliance with this EU directive obligation brings about greater transparency and broadening customer information obligations. We hope that you will support the adoption of this bill, as this will improve the quality of financial services in the future. In view of all this, I ask that you support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-03-132	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In recent years, consumer protection issues have been highlighted, appreciated, one of the most dynamic areas of law, but there are still a number of areas where we have failed to make meaningful progress. This includes the range of payment and insurance products. During the previous period, a number of directives have been adopted in the European Union to raise consumers' financial awareness and improve their access to services. The aim is to create legislation that, by strengthening competition between service providers, will help to make products of this type safer and reduce the fees to be paid. The crisis that started in 2008 has also highlighted the disorder of the situation of financial products. The importance of protecting consumer rights was first highlighted by US President John F. Kennedy, of the world's leaders, on 15 March 1962, and since then the World Consumer Day has been held on this day. Consumer protection principles have been constantly expanding since the 1960s. The World Organisation for Consumer Protection holds among the eight fundamental rights of consumer protection the right to know the facts necessary for a prudent choice and the right to acquire the knowledge and knowledge needed to become an informed and conscious consumer. Dear House, The security risk of electronic payments has increased even more in recent years. The regulatory system for payment services in the internal market eliminates previous shortcomings and a higher level of consumer protection can be achieved thanks to the new transparency and information obligations imposed on payment service providers. The transposition of the Directive will allow the identity and residence of all payment service providers to be registered. In order to further improve consumer protection standards, the Directive provides that the consumer is entitled to receive the relevant information free of charge before the payment service contract becomes binding. The regulation allows the consumer to request prior information and the provision of the framework contract on paper free of charge throughout the contractual relationship. This may also ensure that consumers are able to compare the services and conditions of each payment service provider and to verify their contractual rights and obligations in the event of any dispute. In order to facilitate consumer mobility, the regulation allows consumers to terminate the framework contract after six months without charging a specific fee. [[17.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal provides for training and further training in order to ensure the professional knowledge, competence and reliability of the persons conducting the insurance assessment. By extending the rules already introduced in the investment and credit institutions sectors to the insurance area, this area will also catch up with the strict information, transparency and consumer protection standards already in place elsewhere. This will bring about a coherent regulatory environment following the financial crisis. Dear House, In addition to the provisions necessary for the transposition of the relevant EU directives, the bill includes, inter alia, an amendment to the Public Finance Act and the Act on the Stability of the Economy of Hungary, which aims to ensure better compliance with the directives on the requirements of the budgetary framework of the Member States. In addition to EU legislative obligations, there have also been practical needs from the insurance market players to address certain issues at a legal level, which are also included in the proposal. The bill serves to comply with EU rules on the functioning of the insurance and cash market. The motion contains a number of measures which improve consumer awareness and thus effectively serve to enforce their rights, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support the motion. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, When Congressman Hadházy mentioned JFK's thesis and declaration on consumer protection in 1962, I remembered an old consumer protection-related anecdote saying at the entrance of the workshop that our workshop was working well, quickly and cheaply. When someone came in, they told me to pick only two of the things that were written out, because what's good and fast is not cheap, what's good and cheap is not fast, and I'm not saying the third, because what's fast and cheap is not good, so it's what's being pursued by consumer protection. What applies to product placement in a uniform format in this presentation is Quadranting with anecdotame. This is where the difference is that everyone presents the part of their own product which is beneficial and which, in comparison, is not so favourable, it is either in small letters or it is not included at all. So the uniform format, that in the same order the same weight and the same detail must be displayed for the characteristics of a more complex product, in particular an insurance or financial product, is in any event in the interests of consumer safety. More than that, learning to read at school and understanding what they read would be better served, so that, together with the development of financial culture, this could lead to greater consumer safety over time. On the basis of the specifics of the proposal, the proposal is indeed complementary to the substance adopted on 25 November 2015 by the Member States by the date of 13 January 2018 by Directive PSD2, fully referred to as Directive 2015/2366/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council. Indeed, this has already been dealt with in the previous Hungarian legislation. The aim is also to develop the internal market for secure electronic payments under the provisions of Directive PSD2. In recent years, a number of new market players and more and more innovative payment products and services have also appeared in the financial sector. However, this was largely or entirely considered outside the scope of the previous Financial Directive, so the regulation of the previous Financial Directive either did not cover this or only partially. In view of these, the present bill presented by NGM is necessary to address the regulatory shortcomings. The main point of the Directive is to ensure that all payment service providers are subject to fixed minimum legal and regulatory requirements and, in any case, they must be certified before the start of the activity. The Directive therefore requires prior, recorded, authentic registration of the identity and place of residence of all payment service providers or firms. The consumer is entitled to receive free information about the product before the payment service contract becomes binding. The consumer may also request prior information and the provision of the framework contract free of charge on paper throughout the contractual relationship. The regulation provides the consumer with basic information on the operations performed without charging additional fees. The regulation allows consumers to terminate the framework contracts to be assessed in this way without charging a specific fee after six months, thus ensuring the right of withdrawal within six months, which is very important. After a certain period of time, many people realize what a trap they have entered, what a later burden the financial service or construction initially seems to be favorable. So this is definitely forward-looking. The second part of the proposal is the transposition of Directive 2016/97/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on insurance assessment, which Member States are to transpose into their case law by 23 February 2018. In this context, not only insurance intermediaries, but insurance companies are also regulated, which, I tell you, is a surprise because the gentle reader would think that the product issuer should first be regulated, the insurance company should be regulated, and it turns out that insurance intermediaries were regulated first, and that there is only now a single definition for insurance companies themselves. In addition to insurance intermediaries and reinsurance intermediaries, the insurance intermediary system is added to the category of persons performing supplementary insurance activities. From there, it is only a step to establish the qualification requirements for the auxiliary staff of persons performing supplementary insurance activities. Therefore, the skills of people gossiping about the market must be guaranteed sooner or later. A standardised and formalised insurance product information document will be introduced for non-life insurance products. I said a few supportive words about this in my introduction. [[17 .30]] Actually, the devil is in the details, it's a good rule of law, but what exactly needs to be included, in what cases, it will be worth paying attention to. The Directive also regulates the transformation, merger and division of the insurance or reinsurance undertaking, the transfer of the contract staff of the brokers for the distribution of insurance. There is also Hungarian experience in this, because some unspoken Romanian insurance company named Astra has left quite a lot of contracts here, and there is nothing there, nothing... - I fell into them too, they said that so far it is insured, and then, after that, what comes next can be forgotten, it must be ensured with someone else. So, it's to disappear an insurance company, and then you'll have no risk of losing tens of thousands of clients, that's pretty steep. And that, to say the rules, is ruined, but if you convert your assets into a simple transformation, which you might find out by the investigation that this has happened before, only obligations remain in the fall-in company, well, that's a very ugly and sad story. So there is scope to regulate and protect consumers in this area of insurance. In addition to the above, the presentation contains some clarification or codification corrections, the most beautiful of which is the cardinal provision. The proposal is 65. §2 requires a two-thirds majority. The essence of this is that the Fiscal Council is obliged to examine not only the implementation of the rules laid down in the Fundamental Law, but also the functioning of the EU balance rules. The beauty of this is that, although this is a very strong fundamental provision, only our little Budgetary Council itself is not so fundamental, because it consists of three institutions, persons, of which at least two are very closely linked to the government, and indeed the third, so its independence cannot be regarded as assured at all. In any case, its eligibility or obligation will now extend to the examination of the effectiveness of EU balance rules. According to my summary assessment, the proposal also defines as a transparent organisation a foreign entity which has concluded a contract with Hungary's foreign representation to operate, operate, maintain or carry out its tasks, even if they are not. So it's a little bit of interest within the salad law that there's a little bit of offshore in there that doesn't make this consumer policy so innocent. The former provision also applies to contracts concluded on the date of entry into force of the proposal. So it is a question of how they concluded contracts with non-transparency firms when it has so far been categorically prohibited by the Public Finance Act. Therefore, only transparent organisations could have concluded contracts with a budgetary body. This is gonna work out a little bit. Therefore, the transposition and clarification of the EU directives can be supported within the presentation, but the proposal also contains elements that seem to suggest that the existing standards for delegations have not been fully complied with, and that they will now adapt them nicely to the practice in question, so as not to be contrary to the law at a later stage. The supervisory powers of the Hungarian National Bank appear to be further strengthened. At the same time, amendments requiring a two-thirds majority do not in practice represent a substantive change in the functioning of the Fiscal Council as a counterweight of the government. Each of its players or two players is directly dependent on the government and its third player is a person of confidence in the central bank in the framework of the Persian Union. So it would be better to see some real independence in this area. On this basis, if certain amendments are made, the substance is eligible, and these little tricks are in no way eligible. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-03-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In general, we can say that if we look at the direction of development of the services sector, which is the largest sector in today's economy, we can see that within the service sector the process of creating completely new industries and sectors within the service sector has been much less than one or a half decades. Rather, we can see that they are moving towards digitalisation with regard to existing services and are implementing so-called customer experience focused service developments on existing services. So, for example, if you look at it, this is a good example of community transport, including public transport in Budapest. So what has now been realized in recent years is that you can now buy tickets via vending machines, or you can look at them from your own phone standing at a bus stop, when and on which bus you can get on, or there is a sign standing at the stop that shows us which bus arrives in, well, these are all customer experience focused service developments. And if we look at the services sector in which digitalisation and customer experience focused development has improved most, then we can get to payment services, but also insurance sales. For this reason, a European Union regulation was already very timely, as we could see that digitalisation and fintech development simply outrun the European Union and, as appropriate, Hungarian regulation. So this EU directive before us and its harmonisation do nothing but bring the digital world in, as it has already advanced. What is more, we must see that this will pose further challenges to the legislation, as we can already see the developments that are already being made in the digital and financial services sectors, and here it is enough to think about, for example, the peer-to-peer banking, which the legislator will have to respond to in some way. It is clear that the aim of the bill before us is, on the one hand, to raise consumers' financial awareness, to strengthen consumers' access to financial services, and, on the other hand, to contribute to the reduction of fees in these services sectors, in cash flow and in the insurance sector. It is also clearly designed to allow companies that have not yet had the opportunity to enter the payment service market, since we all know that this market was essentially dominated by the classic big banks, to enter this market by other providers. [[17.40]] I think, by the way, that this is particularly welcome from the point of view of the Hungarian IT market, because in this particular industry, i.e. in the digitalisation of payment services and in the digitalisation of financial services, so overall in the fintech sector, the Hungarian startups are very forward-looking and there are many promising companies. So I think that the adoption of a supportive regulatory environment actually helps not only the European Union, but also specifically startup companies that specialise in Hungary. Exactly what services are we talking about? Basically, there are two types of services that were done by banks, as I said before, this is account information services providers, which is actually about analyzing the bank data, transactions and overdrafts of a client by a central system, and helping the user to make financial decisions. This is an important and forward-looking service. Obviously, this helps the financial awareness of the individual user, the citizens. By the way, these systems are able to set customer targets, so that I would like to buy a house in 10 years' time, if I set it up, it simply won't allow me to make any references that are deemed unnecessary to him, or it will remind me that if I do these references and spendings, otherwise my long-term goal will be compromised. So, it's a very big part of helping financial awareness, by the way. The other type of service, this payment initiation services providers, is when, with the consumer's authorisation, the service provider manages payment orders from its bank account instead of the consumer's account, otherwise combining several current accounts, specifying which current account is to be referred to. These are important services and forward-looking, up-to-date, fast and comfortable services for customers, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that the opening and regulation of this market will not end for legislators or for supervision, as there is also market news that is being heard, for example, that this market is being visited by large IT players such as Facebook and Google. And if you think about what personal data is concentrated in these companies, who know the social habits, facebooking habits of a particular individual, but also the most important information about his finances, then I think that this presents us with new challenges. It is an important part of this regulation - to switch from payment services to insurance sales for a word - that this bill will allow motorists to rejoice in Hungary, since the termination and conclusion of compulsory car liability insurance contracts will now also be possible by electronic means. This was never possible before. In addition, as I said, there are completely new players who are able to enter this market, and this is obviously also a market risk, so it is very important to support the fact that there will also be a register with the European Banking Authority, where these new service companies will have to register. This helps transparency, as it is possible to see in which Member States of the European Union these companies carry out this type of activity and reduce the risks associated with them. So this register is a forward-looking section, not to mention that in this register, service providers' data are uploaded by national supervisors, and the register itself validates these data. It is very important for customers and consumers that these data, which must be uploaded to the European Banking Authority in this register, will be publicly available and free of charge. So before you use such a service, you can easily and simply look into whether the service provider is reliable or whether it is already performing this activity in another Member State. So basically, we consider the bill before us to be forward-looking, I say, for the Hungarian fintech startup companies to be explicitly supported. I think that one of the break-out points for the Hungarian economy is precisely this sector, this sector can be, and in this the Hungarian companies are doing well. In this respect, if the regulation finally brings the digital world in, it is particularly beneficial for Hungarian businesses. However, I would also like to draw the attention of the government and legislation and supervision that this entails significant risks, so that we will have to be on the lookout for the protection of personal data. Once again, we will now open the door if we accept the bill to open the market for payment services, but otherwise there is a complete digitalisation of the financial services market. We will also have to move forward in this regard, but that is the problem of the future. The Christian Democratic People's Party considers the proposal before us - once again - to be forward-looking, and we see a sufficient guarantee element in it, and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-139	Mr President, Dear House, I wish for about three sentences on the bill before us, I can and would like to say, since it is basically at the end of an implementation process, the transposition of a package written elsewhere. So what we think of it here in the colony is one thing. I am more interested in what detailed rules we can add to this package in order to protect Hungarian customers and, where appropriate, potential victims, in particular, so that as little percentage of customers as possible become injured. However, so much about the package, that on the investment front too, what is ahead of us is projected to be quite a tough reorganization, because if you look at the fact that Europe's fund managers, let's say until July of this year, have managed over EUR 8000 billion of assets, you can see that in the case of this huge wealth, a minimum of a few thousand-percent change can move huge amounts of money. And the creation of independent and then dependent consultants together with the various forms of this, so, where appropriate, the independent will be entitled to accept commissions only from investors, not from issuers, and the addicts will practically advertise and distribute the products of some issuers in the same way as before. We do not know yet and can not predict on the basis of the package whether the administrative burden will be higher or the long-term benefit that may result from the development of financial culture, the financial awareness of retail investors will increase. These are often not forintable or eurocentable factors, so you can see - I agree with my colleague - that we are opening gates here, in a lot of areas, by the way. Europe often does this unprepared. Therefore, I would like it much better if, in the long term, Hungarian legislation would respond to this by requiring additional services, such as, for example, fund managers or retail clients, plus reports, prospectuses, electronic statements. [[17.50]] So we would go in a direction that would not only make this system interactive, but would certainly reduce the exposure and vulnerability of Hungarian citizens. And we also need to see that in the short debate, which was not really a debate, there have been very important questions. The basic financial education has returned to mantra, since I was in Parliament for the eighth year, I've always heard it. We have seen some worthwhile steps only from the former management of the Hungarian National Bank, which tried to include at least some of this knowledge in high school education, and I must add that in my view it is almost complete failure. So it is necessary to decide whether we want financial knowledge in Hungary. I'd make it a part of primary and secondary education. So for me, the indicator is that I am not naming the fast loan company, but I should not see its advertisements on TV every ten minutes at night, and it is not possible to persuade Hungarians to take a 60-month loan on vacation if this holiday clearly does not fit into their budget. So we are still seeing amazing market abuse by service providers with clear consequences, uncontrolled consequences; and the consequences are, indeed, that often customers cannot foresee what they are facing, where appropriate, in the event of a quick loan or the taking up of a free-use loan. For this reason, while we were at the point of saying that it is an IT sector, I would like to start from the point of view of why, in the field of public education or in specialised educational institutions, programme languages are taught in Hungary today, for example, which are not used anywhere in the world. Quite simply, our education did not follow this system, while 25 000 IT experts are missing only from the Hungarian market. For me, it was a terrifying experience from a few years ago that I was invited to a conference about this. To be honest, I went to study, so as a sponge, I absorb knowledge and learn from people who are smarter than me how to remedy this shortage of labour in Hungary. One of the main ideas of business leaders was to bring many students from South America here, Hungary does or pays the price of their studies, and to hope that as many as possible will conclude long-term contracts and stay here to work in Hungary. Well, this is the road that is completely unacceptable, and I very much hope that, for the majority of Parliament, similar imports of labour are unacceptable even if some of the new laws of the Fidesz government allow it on paper. But we have to say that this can't be the way to go. So Hungary lacks 25,000 people working in the sector, someone who can work there. Our education system has not been reset in order to eliminate this vacuum, so there are immediate tasks here. We can adopt the EU directives, but there are areas in which intervention should be undertaken, regardless of the host of the baton, in the interests of the current opposition and the future governing parties, otherwise more sectors of the national economy will become unmanageable. Therefore, in summary, a comprehensive and integrated comparative system would be very much needed, allowing customers to compare the various designs, the various products in substance and objectively. This can also be developed in an alternative or complementary way for Hungarian customers on the Hungarian market, which can also be a Hungarian governmental authority. The Hungarian Parliament may adopt laws that allow us to avoid surfing on different bank monitoring sites, and then guess which bank or financial service provider's people are behind that portal, as this has been proven many times, it has generally been confirmed afterwards. I do not think that Hungary would cost more than a few billion forints to top up such an integrated comparative system. So I think that this task should not be saved either. In addition to opening gates, in addition to dealing with future risks, the package that is in front of us can be fully supported, especially if it can have some impact in the interests of investor citizens and customers. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Member Sándor Hadházy of the Fidesz Group has spoken again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, During my speech as a keynote speaker, I wanted to address only and only the issues relating to this proposal before us. I must reiterate that this is a very important issue and I welcome these changes. However, using the opportunity given by the general debate, but not abusing it, I would also like to highlight issues which are not addressed in this presentation. It is not my intention to initiate a debate on this issue, but I would like to draw attention to one or many problems. It is not only in the area of payment, but also in the area of insurance that I would like to talk about. In insurance, there is an area that imposes a legal obligation on the citizen or an economic operator. That's what we call liability insurance, which means you have to make sure you're insured. This concerns, in particular, the scope of car liability insurance among the population, and I believe that the issue of compensation and compensation is inadequate here. On the one hand, it takes a great deal of time for the insurance company to declare whether it accepts responsibility or takes responsibility for mitigating the damage or bearing the damage. In many cases, this time causes serious damage to the victim. It would certainly be good to speed up and put insurance companies within appropriate time limits in order to make these decisions, these declarations, within a closed deadline. The other is an extremely interesting problem, which I would like to draw attention to, namely that compulsory car insurance is about the fact that if it causes harm to someone else, the insurance company will compensate for this damage instead. However, the Hungarian practice shows that in the event that a car crashes and the repair of the body has to be solved, the insurance company asks the sufferer of the damage, who is completely innocent, because he intends to settle this in the framework of liability insurance, and he has to pay for it out of his own pocket. If we try to project this into life, and someone tells me that I'm going to take my car to the car market and tell the potential buyer that it costs, say, 500 thousand forints more for this car than it would otherwise have for its market value, because it's got a new body panel installed, then it's obviously coming out of the buyer's side. So in this form, it's an absurd notion that a damaged but repaired car is supposed to be worth more in theory. So in this sense, in the area of consumer protection, I would think that we should think further, and that these anomalies should be removed as soon as possible. With respect for the future, I would ask you to help me with this. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Hollik of the KDNP fraction also applied for a repeated speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to waste our time. I just need some reflections. My fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpat, mentioned the lending practice and the advertisements from which we can easily identify exactly who he was talking about. I think we can agree that these are truly outrageous. I would like to say, to which I have referred, that not only in terms of payment services, but also in respect of other financial services, the fintech sector is knocking on the door. I think that it might be possible to break down such behaviour on the market if we let these fintech companies in. So, for example, for the market behaviour you mentioned, the activity of a company that sees its advertisements every ten minutes can be eliminated, for example, if the peer-to-peer banking, which is already a $100 billion market in China, i.e. who owns savings, the lender or the borrower is connected via an online system. In essence, according to market experts, the interest on the loan can be reduced by more than half. For example, providers of such behaviour will simply disappear from the market. So, on one hand, the digital revolution that we see in the financial market is good in this respect, because it will clearly break prices and with this type of behaviour, businesses on the market will be removed from the market. [[18.00]] At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of all of us once again to the fact that we also have a number of problems facing the opening of these gates. It is worth saying here in the Hungarian Parliament that the majority of these payment and financial service providers, who are basically operating in this fintech, are American businesses and are American businesses, I repeat once again, which can be considered a large enterprise. So, for example, with regard to the payment services I have referred to, almost confirmed market gossip that Facebook wants to join. Therefore, I do not think that it is possible to stress enough that the protection of data must be given proper attention to us legislators, but also to supervision. After all, it is not permissible for databases containing different types of personal data to be connected by large IT companies, who are also on the Community market and are also in the financial services or payment markets. I mean, this way you can get personal information, which I think is quite clear that it could pose a national security risk. Once again, this is only a matter of the future, but it is important that we all take this into account, and we will come back in this respect and see how these laws, these rules have had an impact on the market and on consumers. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian responds to what has been said, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-10-03-145	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to offer one thought to the majority of the governor. True: the admission of different digital companies and forms of farming can reduce the number of financial abuses among people who move in the digital dimension. At the same time, I would like to remind you that for another 30 years, Hungarian social groups and age groups who are not internet users at all due to their habits or even their age are not expected to be able to borrow money. Together, we have a dog duty to protect them against any financial abuse. So, from the hands of financial hyenas not necessarily moving in the net sphere, we simply have to unscrew the weapon. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Ms Ágnes Hornung, State Secretary, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2017-10-03-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, I will try to answer all the questions raised, but I would like to start by stepping back a bit by saying that we have talked about and you have talked about how progress reaches everywhere. This is so, if we look at different comparisons, then in America, what they mentioned, and in China this so-called fintech development is really much larger than in Europe. This almost does not appear in the European Union as a whole, it is roughly Britain where such fintech development can be reported in the financial sector. Nevertheless, Europe is in the hallway of this, so as European regulators, we must have the opportunity to participate in this sector on an equal and appropriate basis, just as in America and China, as in the European financial market. So I fully agree with the views of those who say that we need to compete, that Europe as a whole must compete with the development of fintech operators in different continents, and that this must create a normal regulatory basis. This is what the European Union has done in the first step by transposing this Directive, the PSD2. This directive has created the opportunity for these fintech companies to enter the banking market, which has so far been operated in a very narrow, closed and strict manner. I highlighted that there are strict rules and operating banks, as it is very difficult to strike a balance between how these fintech companies, which are about to develop explosively, can compete on the same condition on the market. On the one hand, competition must be allowed between the two sectors and between the banking sector and fintech, but, as you pointed out, this competition must not mean that any sector, but most of the population, suffers from it. So, as you have pointed out, consumer protection must also be highlighted in addition to creating the right conditions of competition on the market. This regulation is in its infancy. The European Union is also trying to keep pace with this development. We Hungarians also try to keep up with this development. The only difficulty is that we as national legislators are bound by the rules of the European Union. So what we can do right now is that we represent what you said at these committee meetings properly, and we can channel them properly. That's half of it. The other half is national legislation on what other underlying rules can be developed. Of course, the National Bank will be consulted on this issue and we will try to put consumer protection on the broadest possible basis. This is the second pillar, with which we would like to give this so-called line of protection to the Hungarian population. The third, which has been discussed several times in several conferences, we have prepared a comprehensive set of financial strategy laws on the part of the Ministry of National Economy, in which we would like to ensure that the Hungarian population as a whole is a truly financially conscious user. If this happens, consumer protection provisions are much easier to deal with, as we are dealing with conscious consumers, we know what they are able to do, so they will be able to interpret the legislation properly. This is a comprehensive strategy, so we expect results in the long term. This needs to be integrated into the education system, of course the process is still evolving, but we are waiting for this to come before the government in the near future, and I trust that these ideas that you have mentioned will then actually be able to get into practice, which will be part of a number of conciliation forums. So I welcome these ideas, which have also come up here, because it is in our common interest, as you said, that the Hungarian population should really be financially conscious, and that the dangers that this otherwise imminent and unstoppable development represents, everyone should consciously treat it in the future. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-03-148	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, A-modifying proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[18.10]]
u2017-10-03-149	Mr President, Dear House, I am irresistible with regard to the sharing of the Calvary of foreign exchange credentials, credit crooks. The details of this are not only sobering, but have a message value for all our compatriots that anyone can do so after a single financial decision that has not yet been called faulty, after which we see that if we are exposed to a very sophisticated, very fine-tuned system that is surrounded by banks, financial firms, government oversight deficiencies and government failures, then we can certainly get in a lot of trouble. Last week, we had to watch the calvary of a family on the World Wide Web and on TV, where a basically $5 million debt resulted in a claim of over $30 million. There were countless procedural errors, and many signals were given not only by the family itself, but also by those who came to their aid, that something was wrong here, and that the help had not finally arrived, either from the state's supervision, from government agencies or from the court. So we can say that there are huge gaps on the perhaps no longer necessarily existing social safety net, and there are tens of thousands of holes in the net. There are tens of thousands of people in the gap that we should not necessarily have, because we see that there has been no systemic solution to the problem, that has not been developed, and at the moment there is a huge threat to the six-digit mass of people - not just the numbers - who have an acute problem of not being able to repay the debt and details of which the legal bases can be questioned in many cases, and we do indeed see that their executioners are overreaching, there are systemic problems surrounding this whole process, without which the fate of these people could be settled in the vast majority of cases. Therefore, on behalf of Jobbik, we have put forward a proposal which clearly aims to ensure that the 33 percent bans and especially the 50 percent bans do not target the income of those affected, the victims, necessary for minimum living. We are referring to the low pensions for which these prohibitions can also be implemented. We feel that it is a systemic problem that not our fellow countrymen with better or higher incomes are being hit with legitimate or unauthorized burdens, but that they typically make it impossible for those who are quite simply unable to produce even essential items for life support. Therefore, the result of our proposal would be that many families could get away with eviction, in a life situation where, through a new negotiation process, the real one is real, but I would like to stress that it could only pay off the real and existing burdens, which, moreover, stands, and cannot be counted on. The long-term solution will, of course, be brought up by a new accounting law, which should start from the forinting of loans at the rate of admission. And then we didn't talk about compensation for those who have been in debt, because we have to give a protective hand to families who have already been evicted, the family has been beaten up, one or other family members who may have been forced abroad to pay the payment here with a higher wage. In their case, we would like to use the conversion surplus at the National Bank of Hungary to put the most difficult people in the situation in a compensation fund. Hungary must not forget any of its citizens in this respect. However, as long as we are in opposition, we must call on the government to immediately order the moratorium on eviction until the parliamentary elections, as it is apparent that Fidesz-KDNP could not resolve this problem. It is no coincidence that I will not be able to get an answer to my speech after this agenda, since there is no one in the Chamber who can physically respond. I do not see a government representative at the moment, only in the chair and in the notary seat, but we must say that these questions cannot remain unanswered in the long term, since we are talking about Hungary's worst social, financial and sociological disaster in this century. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-10-03-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I thank you for your day's work. The Parliament will resume its work at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a restful good night and a happy return home. Thank you very much. [[Meeting ended at 6:15 p.m.]]
