u2017-09-20-0	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Good morning. The 3rd day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. I welcome our dear guests and all those who are monitoring our work today. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the agreement on cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the State of Maryland in the field of higher education will follow. The government referral is T/17305. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. The time frame is 30 minutes.
u2017-09-20-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the T/1730 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Maryland on cooperation in the field of higher education. On the occasion of a general debate on bill No 1. Please allow me to briefly describe the main elements of the bill before the plenary of the Honourable Parliament. The bill concerns the publication of an agreement on the principled support for operation in Hungary and the recognition of its binding scope, which provides the legal basis for the further operation in Hungary of McDaniel College as a foreign-type higher education institution registered in Maryland. On 14 July 2017, the agreement was signed by Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and on behalf of the State of Maryland, Dr. James D. Fielder, Minister of Higher Education. The purpose of this bill is to publish this agreement. The conclusion of the agreement is justified by the examination carried out by the Education Office in 2016. The review of foreign higher education institutions was a legal obligation of the Education Office five years after the publication of the 2011 Higher Education Act. This review showed that many of these institutions do not operate in accordance with the law or irregularly in Hungary. As a result of this assessment, the 2011 CCIV on national higher education was amended. Law No. 1. The law is 76. § 1 states that in the case of foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union and outside the European Economic Area and active in educational activities in Hungary, it is necessary to conclude an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the government of the home state to support the operation in Hungary in principle. Here, the states where higher education does not fall within the competence of the central government are divided, so here the law says that a prior agreement with the federal state is needed, but the ratified agreement itself, an agreement must be concluded with the government of the State otherwise responsible for the higher education function. This is the case with the United States of America. This law also affects six higher education institutions in four countries, of which three are based in the United States - one is McDaniel College, the other is Central European University and the other is Boston University, which is based in the state of Massachusetts, and one is a Chinese, Thai and Malaysian university. This amendment is necessary because universities in the European Union, in the European Economic Area, operate according to the same set of rules as Hungarian universities. However, in order to ensure continuous quality, we felt the need to have another channel through which we agree with the government of that country on matters concerning universities, especially students of these universities. This agreement was first concluded with the state of Maryland after our preliminary agreement with the federal government. The agreement contained in this draft law also lays down the US status of McDaniel College Budapest and the conditions for its operation in Hungary, such as its legal status, its activities, the laws and regulations applied by the parties, as well as the validity of the agreement, and designates the bodies responsible for implementing the agreement, which is the Ministry of Human Resources of the Hungarian State. One of the essential elements of the text of the Agreement is that the Hungarian Party undertakes to do its utmost to conduct the internal legal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement by 15 November 2017. With the entry into force of this draft law, McDaniel College Budapest's operating conditions in Hungary will be settled between the parties, so McDaniel College Budapest can be the first European Union or non-EEA higher education institution to fulfil the conditions of the amended law. The university has fulfilled these conditions, this is the last formal act of McDaniel College continuing its activities as an American institution of foreign higher education, but training in Hungary. This also shows that the provisions which have been included in the amendment of the law can be fulfilled and enforced, as otherwise stated in the agreement with the State of Maryland. Thank you very much, that's all I wanted to say in the introduction.
u2017-09-20-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for the lead speakers' higher education. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is L. Simon László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-20-3	Mr President, Dear House, In fact, Mr Secretary of State has summarized in detail and thoroughly the not-so-complicated presentation before us, but I would like to add a few thoughts and repeat some of his points. The agreement with the State of Maryland on McDaniel College before us is a treaty which the opposition believes cannot exist or could not exist. The Act on National Higher Education requires that if a higher education institution established outside the European Union or the European Economic Area wishes to pursue higher education activities in Hungary, the State in which the institution is established must conclude an agreement with the Hungarian government. As indicated by the national expozee, the aforementioned provision of the recent amendment to the Higher Education Act concerns a total of six higher education institutions in four States. Mr Secretary of State spoke about the institutions in the United States, but also about China, Thailand and Malaysia, and as we have heard, there are three universities in the case of the United States: Boston University, Central European University and McDaniel College. In the case of McDaniel College, which was founded in 1867 in Hungary, the Government of Hungary negotiated with the government office of the State of Maryland, and, as Mr.Secretary of State has just said, we know that the operation of College in Hungary has been agreed with the office of Governor of the State of Maryland during the visit of Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in the United States of July. As has been agreed with Maryland, my fellow Members, we hope to reach an agreement with Massachusetts and New York. This agreement, which we hope to ratify, proves that whoever wants can meet this condition, is not an impossible thing. However, those concerned about CEU, as well as the employees of the organisations funded by György Soros and the representatives of the opposition parties, campaigned for weeks this spring with the inability to fulfil this condition. The same people who said two years ago that immigration was a fake problem, government rubber bone, who said a year ago that there would be no or no mandatory quota, and therefore no referendum could be held on non-existent things, this spring they claimed that this requirement of the Higher Education Act could not be complied with. Meanwhile, honourable Members, we have the agreement before us. It is therefore regularly proven that the opposition also comes to the public in the most fundamental cases with statements that lie reality and facts. This was the case in the debate on the Higher Education Act and in the pseudo-life debate surrounding its adoption, generated by the left-wing opposition. [[9.10]] Members of Fidesz and KDNP, who are committed to the issue of national higher education, will not stand up to this provocation either then or now, so on behalf of the Fidesz faction, I propose that the Parliament accept the proposal to announce and recognise the binding scope of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the State of Maryland on cooperation in the field of higher education. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-20-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-5	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, On the proposal before us, Mr Secretary of State gave me a professional, let us say, introduction in his expozee, and then, of course, my fellow Member, Mr Simon, along with the political overtones, said the position of the Fidesz faction, so if you will allow me, I will try to continue this tradition, too. The proposal before us is Article 76 of the National Higher Education Act, as amended in 2017 In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, the conclusion of an international contract between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Home State for foreign higher education institutions established outside the European Union and outside the European Economic Area and carrying out educational activities in Hungary is necessary to support the operation in Hungary in principle. As you have already mentioned, Minister of State, according to the above legal provisions, a total of six higher education institutions in four states are involved. China, Thailand, Malaysia, one university, and three universities in the United States. As highlighted in the presentation, this agreement on the Parliament's table serves as a model for conducting similar negotiations. This international agreement, which we now intend to conclude, is a forced agreement in quotes, which was necessary only because Fidesz decided as part of the Soros campaign to make the Central European University impossible, eliminate or at least drive out of the country, founded by a businessman of Hungarian origin. In the case of the attack on CEU, János Lázár admitted at the government info on 6 July that CEU could continue to operate smoothly if György Soros did not want to bring millions of refugees to Hungary, thereby disturbing Hungary's security. I quote what Minister Lázár said at this press conference or at the government info:. We have been together in peace between CEU and the Fidesz government in recent years. This changed when George Soros announced a programme to open Europe's borders and invite one million immigrants to Europe every year. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Fidesz attack on CEU and the cited amendment of the National Higher Education Act have unfortunately also affected the functioning of five other higher education institutions, including McDaniel College, which is included in this proposal. We could also say that McDaniel College has become an innocent sufferer of a cowardly and shameful action, which is yet another dark chapter in the development of Viktor Orbán's illiberal regime. He suffered from a move towards another unbridled authoritarianism, whether based on Turkish or Russian samples, where independent institutions will be liquidated in one day. Nothing proves that better than János Lázár, quoted earlier, who spoke in a government brief at the end of March about the fact that McDaniel College, proclaiming itself as a liberal university, was the only university that complied with all Hungarian rules. According to János Lázár, the university chose Sándor Csányi as an honorary doctor in 2016, and he also has teachers of gender studies, and the government has no problem with them, so they have no political motivation. The question arises as to why, in the opinion of Minister Lazarus, McDaniel College has complied with all Hungarian rules, it was necessary to conclude an international agreement on its continued operation. Why was it necessary to amend the Higher Education Act quoted, and what is this agreement even doing on the Parliament's table? According to Viktor Orbán's interview on Kossuth radio on 31 March, the reason why we need to act against CEU is because Hungary does not tolerate fraud. Can we ask you what kind of fraud? Which university cheated? If that's what happened, why didn't they report it? Probably the prosecutor's office headed by Péter Polt would have been very keen to investigate these suspected fraud cases. The Education Office has made it clear that the CEU and other relevant universities are clearly compliant with the law. In the radio interview quoted, the Prime Minister said that an investigation found that the CEU was also among the universities operating in an irregular manner. We do not know what kind of investigation the Prime Minister might have referred to if the Education Office had already said the opposite. A further explanation was then made by Viktor Orbán: no one should be above the law. He just forgot to add that it's over what they're gonna bring in after that. The government's misfortune after the adoption of the law in an accelerated procedure, with whom to conclude an international agreement, was only foam on the cake. Secretary of State Péter Szijjártó wanted to prove at all costs that the U.S. government did not know its own constitution. The political effort to push the whole case up to the level of the US federal government was devastating, although it was clear that it was not competent to do so, since it had to happen at the level of the Member States. On account of this, they may have tried to force a Trump-Orbán meeting or get rid of it, but they may have hoped that the campaign against Soros is a common denominator with the US administration, but what we have to see is that they were wrong, because the U.S. State Department stood up for the university's further operation. So the idea of amending the Higher Education Act did not work, so it is nothing more than an attack on Soros's person or foundation. The government declares war on the Central European University and five other institutions, despite the fact that Viktor Orbán, József Szájer, Zsolt Németh, Tamás Deutsch, Zoltán Kovács and László Kövér studied Central European movements abroad with the help of the Soros Foundation. According to them, this was a long time ago, but by the way, the Deputy State Secretary for Legal and Coordination Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs started his studies at CEU Business School last year, and his tuition is paid by the wallet. This is not the first time Orbán has launched an attack on one of the pillars of democratic societies. Hungarian free media has fallen, Hungarian civil society has been struck, and academic freedom has also been hit. The decision was triggered by the outrage of thousands of Hungarian and international academics, including 20 Nobel Prize winner scientists, as well as students and protestors. More than 40,000 experts turned to the Hungarian government to withdraw the bill attacking the Central European University, but they ignored their voices. Before the famous amendment of the Higher Education Act, all six higher education institutions concerned were legally active. The purpose of the amendment was to make CEU impossible, but it also affected five other institutions. According to the MSZP, the operation of these institutions does not require the conclusion of any international agreement, since they have already functioned legally. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the bill before us. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-20-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring session, the Hungarian Parliament discussed the draft amendment of the law on national higher education in rather tumultuous circumstances, which was submitted by the government. I do not want to appreciate this right now, either pro or versus, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary explained its position on this. This law has entered into force, and the President of the Republic has signed it, so it must be applied since then. In the framework of this application, it was assessed which universities and higher education institutions are affected by this year's amendment of the law. On this basis, it was found to affect six universities, which are established in China, Thailand and Malaysia, and three in the United States. In this context, the conclusion of these agreements began. In the spring 2017 Act on National Higher Education, an amendment was made at the time, which was also adopted, and this concerned that, if a university is operating in a federal state, it should also examine who is entitled to conclude this agreement as to whether the central government has transferred it to one of the Confederate States, the State and the Government of the State of the Federation. That's what we're talking about right now. This agreement was drawn up from the University of Maryland, which came before us and was signed by the State of Maryland earlier and signed by Mr.Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade on 14 July 2017. To put this into effect, it is also necessary to sanction this agreement. That is why this debate was on the Parliament's table today and will be voted in. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-09-20-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-20-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, This agreement and this bill are part of the charade that, in fact, is about making CEU impossible in the new rules that shape the operation of foreign universities. These agreements are ancillary costs to lex CEU, only a means for the government to drive the CEU out of the country. [[9.20]] Rather, they undertake to embarrass themselves in America, looking for agreements like this, just to close a university for political reasons, or to show what might be achieved here by force. They are embarrassing themselves before the entire U.S. administration, demanding prior agreement from the U.S. federal government, which is not known to be competent in matters of education. This agreement, however, this bill, is a distraction that follows from the underlying amendment of the Higher Education Act, the lex CEU. There was no need to impose these new conditions, prior agreement, agreement at Member State level and training in the country of origin, unnecessary obstacles to the functioning of universities. Universities issuing fake degrees could have already been screened for purely control during the procedure for the revision of operating licences. The government recently spoke about the fact that uncertainty about the existence of CEU was not a real issue, and therefore did not attend the extraordinary meeting. Thus, the impossibility of one of the best universities in Hungary is not a real issue for the government. It is not in the national interest to have international universities and to keep talented young people at home. It is not a real issue that Hungarian higher education should be internationally competitive and not less, but more good universities. The government's anti-knowledge policy, which drives young people away, goes against national interest, and this is a real issue. The government started a political campaign against CEU months ago, dragged a university into its own small-scale political games, and has kept this institution and other institutions uncertain ever since. Fidesz's own popularity for its raw power goals is not a big price even to drive away a university, just to mislead people to remain in power. With regard to the CEU case, it has become clearer than ever before when it comes to the survival of Fidesz, the preservation of its power, nothing is expensive enough, they are able to sacrifice Hungary's international judgment, good relations with the allies, our country's ability to assert interest, our place in scientific life and the national interest in keeping as many talented young people as possible. Nothing's expensive for Fidesz when it comes to power. Viktor Orbán does not look to the interests of his country, but to the first, to subjugate other things completely distant to his own interests of power. He's capable of making an enemy image of something that's in the best interest of the country. In a democratic rule of law, the existence of a university cannot depend on the goodwill of the government, its arbitrary decisions, its current political interests. It is very clear that lex CEU is a politically motivated law. In support of this, it is enough to quote the statements made by either the Prime Minister or John Lazarus, which clearly support this. If there were an irregularity, it could be examined in accordance with Hungarian rules. If there is such a serious irregularity, you should have noticed this by my fellow members of the Government, as I remind you that they have been ruling for the eighth year. Why, before the campaign and why, as a direct follow-up to a presidential election, this was created in parallel to the US presidential election. Allow me a little story, which, I think, is a lesson from nationality to Viktor Orbán. At the beginning, there was a rumor that a good relationship with the new President of the United States of America would begin, since Viktor Orbán and he were thinking in a similar way. Perhaps it was also a gesture that, as a gesture to the American Republican president in Hungary, Soros, who is a member of the Democratic Circles, was given a slap, and then they came to the United States to say, "Well, look how we hit your opponents." And here's the lesson: the United States of America said he wasn't a Democrat to me, he was an American man. We belong to a country before the political family we belong to. And this is a really good lesson in the Hungarian way of thinking. National awareness is better than what kind of political family we belong to. I think Viktor Orbán could really learn from this. Hungary needs not less, but more quality education, an open and autonomous higher education institution for all. The CEU case is also a symptom of several years of decline in higher education, and the government has been sucking air away from universities for years. On an annual basis, HUF 250 billion is missing from the education budget, of which HUF 50 billion from higher education. Employees are underfunded, educators are underfunded, while learning is becoming increasingly pay-per-view. According to the LMP, Hungary must be competitive not with low wages, but with educated people. The more skilled young people are needed, the more billions removed from higher education need to be replaced, the more free the diploma contract, the freedom of universities must be restored, the lack of resources for rural higher education institutions, and all young people must be given competitive qualifications instead of bleeding out. We support the bill before us, because if we can contribute to the further functioning of a university in Hungary, we will do so. But we consider this to be part of a dirty political game that the government has dragged the higher education institutions into, and we strongly protest against that. Meanwhile, there is no concrete and reassuring progress in the CEU case. It may happen, so I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State and fellow members of the Government to indicate what progress has been made in this case. Last we heard through the press on August 9th that some sort of negotiations were taking place, but we don't know anything about their progress. We are also well aware that another condition, that an agreement with the US government, which is known not to be its jurisdiction, was accepted, was finally accepted by a declaration of intent by the Minister of Education, I think, is causing themselves unpleasant moments, but seemingly solving this. And obviously we would also like to thank you for the third condition if the public were informed, and this is whether there is progress on campus in the United States, New York. If you refuse to abolish lex CEU, can any progress be made in this matter? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply to this question. Thank you.
u2017-09-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak for the first independent Member. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-20-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that, historically speaking, we will already have such an international agreement with the seventh Member State of the United States. I checked the law, there was no agreement of this type on any subject. It is important to know about this state that it is perhaps the richest in terms of GDP per capita, seventy thousand dollars per capita is the annual GDP, which is about five times the value of Hungarian GDP. It is a particularly beautiful state, situated along the Chesapeake Bay in Annapolis, with more than a hundred rivers and streams flowing into it, very nice, you can fish oysters, and research and development in higher education institutions there is very strong, so I have absolutely no problem with that. I'm telling you, I'm happy for you. I thought I'd give you a little geographical description of the state of Maryland. The problem is, you're not here, I think. This was referred to here by a number of my fellow opposition Members, but by the fact that we know the history of this. It's obviously hard for a man to accept. But since my fellow Members have been talking about this, I wouldn't exactly waste any time. [[9.30]] I would like to draw your attention here to one thing, which, frankly, I do not understand, and I would like to argue here with my colleague L. Simon László, when he said that, well, once again, it has been proven that the opposition representatives lied, because the treaty is here, and everything is fine. The point of the National Higher Education Act that was put in it with the lex CEU is described in point 76. § (1) (a); to make it understandable, I read the text. This means that a foreign higher education institution in the territory of Hungary may carry out a formal training activity if - and here comes point (a) - an interjected clause concluded by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State in which the foreign higher education institution is established: - in the case of a federal State, where the international contract based on a prior agreement with its central government is not eligible for recognition of the mandatory scope of the international contract, the Contracting Parties have recognised the mandatory scope of an international contract based on the prior agreement with its central government. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's a little complicated, but maybe from the previous ones, it turns out it's about making a deal with Washington D.C. first, then Annapolis. Annapolis is the capital of Maryland, a small town of 36,000, not even the largest city in Maryland. This is interesting because in international law the agreement means that you give 1 list to become two governments and publish it. Between the United States and Hungary, i.e. Washington and Budapest; I looked directly at the law library, there are also such international agreements announced, based on a change of registry, and there are those where, after long negotiations, a paper is signed. I researched the entire Hungarian law library, and I could not find an international agreement that Washington and Hungary would have concluded on the recognition of higher education institutions. Maybe I was careless. But this is what my fellow Member Ikotity pointed out, though, that there was some correspondence received by the US Government. I may not know how to do it, but in international law, it is customary for an agreement to be made if it is published, so it is in the archives. But there's no such thing. I would then like to ask whether, from an international legal point of view, it is perfectly all right to conclude an agreement on the basis of correspondence. Because the text of the law is clear. You're not saying that Mr. Szijjártó should write a letter to the government, that the U.S. government should send back another letter, or, I don't know, turn right or left, and don't worry about it, you have to make an agreement before what we say Maryland and McDaniel College and not the other one that L. Simon mentioned. So you don't want this? Because the text of the law says that an agreement must be concluded, it must be published under international law. I don't have that right now. So what exactly is the situation? That's all I'm interested in, so I'd be happy to have Secretary Palkovic's answer. In parentheses, I would return to what László L. Simon said was a lie by opposition representatives. We made it clear when lex CEU was brought in here that it was perfectly clear that there was a shooting at an institution, namely CEU, because they created a set of conditions in this law, at the end of which it came that an institution could not actually comply with this regulation, and that it was CEU. And this contract shows it very well, because we knew and we said that, by definition, McDaniel College will be able to comply with this requirement if the United States and Maryland's legal relations are somehow sorted out because they have campuses in Westminster. I don't know, that campus must have been there for 150 years; I might be wrong about the timeline, but it's been a long time. Obviously, the law was written so that it would end up applying only to the CEU, but I only told it for the sake of historical loyalty. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State on the question I have raised. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-20-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-09-20-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This draft law concerns institutions based outside the European Union and pursuing higher education in Hungary. In fact, it is also about CEU. All this going on is a circus. It's a CEU circus, and I can say with a calm spirit, along with the involvement of the Soros children, under Orbán's leadership. I don't have to mention the others from Szájer to Németh or even from Deutsch to Fat. Even if Nobel Prize winners protest, even if they say that what you're doing is basically based on distorted political considerations. It doesn't matter. You are destroying one of the best higher education institutions in Hungary. The fact is that they should rather deal with what Lazarus and Orbán say, but in terms of how and how they were together with CEU earlier, why this did not cause problems. That they do not tolerate fraud in Hungary, Orbán says. Financial uses should be looked at in other respects as to how they are done. There would be something to be done, and it would not have to be governed by ex post laws and brought to life the situation that has been brought to life. If I don't want to go into it, I'm just gonna say one sentence or two half-phrases. It seems to me that Fidesz has become an enemy of acquiring knowledge. It seems to me that Hungarian young people are doing so little in keeping them at home. You should take the lead in this, you should do a lot more in this, you'd be serving this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-20-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. On behalf of the rapporteur, I ask Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, whether he wishes to take the opportunity to speak and respond to what he has said. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-15	Thank you very much. All the more so, because there have been several questions, and we were not actually talking about the proposal, which concerns cooperation between the state of Maryland and Hungary, but about other matters. I would like to thank Mr Csaba Gyüre and Mr Ikotity for their ability to overcome the political issues that have emerged from the MSZP side and to vote in favour of the entry into force of this cooperation agreement. I mean, we're talking about a university, a university that is active in America, otherwise I think it's 200 years old, or somewhere between the two, and it's a very good institution. I participated in this university's opening year in Budapest, and I think that the university's management also took comfort in acknowledging that this agreement not only satisfies the law, but also provides a long-term future for both this and other Maryland institutions. The same way we're gonna tie it to the state of New York, or we're gonna tie it down. With Massachusetts, a similar agreement with the universities there and hopefully several other U.S. universities. As regards the Hungarian higher education system, its freedom, I would like to remind everyone that there are 63 higher education institutions in Hungary at the moment, of which 21 are foreign higher education institutions. In a country this size, so many higher education institutions operate freely. If you compare this with any of Europe's countries that are more successful than we are at the moment, you can see that the kind of freedom that applies to higher education institutions, whether it is a foreign institution or a Hungarian private institution or a religious institution or a Hungarian state institution, is not in any danger. [[9.40]] I would like to highlight this because if we read the part of the report of the Venice Commission, not the last one-page conclusion, but the report, in this report the Venice Commission makes it quite clear - there is a lot in it anyway - that the autonomy and freedom of university education in Hungary is not at risk; this amendment does not affect this in any way. Then this report states another thing, as I said, in addition to many other things, that every state must have the right and even the duty to continuously improve the quality of its higher education institution system and to do everything to ensure that this quality is good in the long term. In this sense, they did not object to this amendment. There was one thing they resented in this regard that this should not apply to an existing institution. It's a legal category. I'm an engineer, not a lawyer. If we thought this was good, we could end the development and development of our legal system, I think, but as I said, I wouldn't want to take any more positions on this because I don't know about it. How much this is a coercive agreement: when the Maryland negotiations took place, another US university in Maryland's Caribbean training had just failed. And after there was no agreement between the two states, so the students there didn't really know what was going to happen, otherwise they didn't really find a solution. So from this point of view, Maryland welcomed this as a good way to continue to ensure the interests of students in the country where an American higher education institution is training so that they can turn to somewhere else. Such an agreement is not funny, because we are talking about higher education institutions. Mr Zsolt Legány mentioned here why we should regulate such an agreement. We have three agreements with the United States of America, along with a series of other agreements that are otherwise federal. One of these is the agreement on the mobility of Fulbright Scholarships and the other is the agreement on the American School in Budapest. I think that if we have regulated these in inter-state agreements, then not in comparison and not in terms of equality or sub-ordination, let us say, with an institution of higher education, but in order to regulate this, I do not think that is such a very big problem. So I think that there's nothing to be ashamed of or anything else to do about it. By the way, this trial with the State of Maryland was conducted on an absolute professional basis, and by the way, surprisingly, I think it is not so much for me, but you can be surprised that negotiations with the State of New York also take place on an absolute professional basis. There's nothing political about this. Yes, it is a normal thing to have an agreement between the two states, so much so that when we signed this agreement, we may have signed such an agreement or a declaration of intent already in 2004, it was not unusual anyway. So such an agreement is very appropriate, and it is very okay to conclude such agreements for a serious thing, which means a higher education institution. What kind of arrangement is this? The Member asked why we consider this exchange of letters between Minister Balog and Minister DeVos. We consider this to be exactly what is written in the text of the law. The text of the law says that it will establish a preliminary agreement, an agreement, because it is indeed... [[To interrupt Szabolcs Szabó:]] In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, it does not have to be announced. Otherwise, this is perfectly appropriate, otherwise this law could not have come here today. So it's okay. A ratified agreement must otherwise be established with that State. I would remind you, for example, that we also agreed with the German federal government on the issue of Andrássy University, for example, but after this agreement was not ratified, we did not announce it, yet there is Andrássy University. That's in the same category, so we didn't just come up with that. What surprised me is that the MSZP does not support the operation of this university in Hungary, which does not fit in with the previous opinion. Yesterday, Congressman Hiller and I had a kind of debate, a conversation, and it didn't seem to me that the MSZP didn't agree otherwise, let's say, with the operation of a foreign institution in Hungary. Looks like the MSZP's opinion on this thing has changed since yesterday. So it's not an act, it's a real content. Here we are talking about professional matters, an agreement that will be followed by all parties. The congressman asked what was going on with the agreement with the State of New York. This is where the negotiations take place. Obviously, at this moment, this applies to CEU. I believe that these agreements will be concluded soon, and if, in the context of this agreement, the applicant CEU, which is currently in place, fulfils these conditions, which I believe, by the way, are considered to be increasingly feasible, then this agreement will also be signed, and otherwise nothing will happen to the CEU. Just because we're talking about CEU again, if we look at the minutes of the Venice Commission, they didn't understand what the case was either, because there is a very good Hungarian university, this Central European University, which is training in Hungary, the accreditation applies to his establishment, then what is the need for the entire CEU. But I think this should be the business model of the Central European University's maintainers, if you will. They were not really able to explain why this particular American construction was needed, if there is, by the way, a university that doesn't train there, it doesn't train here, because another institution is doing what the case is - they didn't understand. We showed the whole network what it looks like, and then they didn't understand it, so that's why it was described in the Venice Commission's report. So I really think that there is no case here; what we are really talking about today is that McDaniel College, Maryland, in Hungary, is guaranteed by this law, so I ask everyone to support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-20-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol on the reciprocal settlement of the legal situation of diplomatic property until closure. Government referral T/17301. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. First, I give the floor to Hungarian Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda. Your time frame is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2017-09-20-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I will not take the 30 minutes because it is an agreement of a technical nature, which has a political relevance, but, of course, this is not the determining element of this agreement, because it is nothing more than the tying up of one of the many crimes of the past, otherwise of lesser scale. As in many other cases, our generation has been given the task of trying to correct and avert the many negative and harmful consequences of the communist-socialist past of the country. It is good that this is not a matter of substance, but of the legacy of a technical failure that we can completely settle with this agreement. Dear House, According to this, the signing of the Protocol between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual settlement of the legal situation of diplomatic property is, in our opinion, part of the Government's programme, which attaches particular importance to strengthening relations with its neighbours and with the Visegrad Group, such as Poland. Hungarian-Polish relations also play a decisive role in shaping our foreign policy from a bilateral, regional and multilateral perspective. Our aim, and perhaps there is agreement between the parties in the Parliament, is that we can continue to develop our relations with Poland without any problems in the future. The signing of the Protocol is closely linked to this target system, with the aim of finalising the situation in which there is no need to involve any additional budgetary resources from either party. What is it, my dear House, about this matter? Decades ago, an agreement was reached between the Hungarian People's Republic and Poland on the transfer of two or two state-owned properties to each other for diplomatic use, but in the spirit of great communist friendship, the clarification of legal details, such as the duration of this agreement, has not been fixed, and since then there has been a completely uncertain legal situation around the interpretation of the agreement at that time. This agreement is about what was signed in June this year by Hungarian Foreign Minister Waszczykowski and Hungarian Foreign Minister Szijjártó to settle the legal status of these two properties, i.e. a total of four real estates, in such a way that we simply replace the property ownership of the property, in a way that does not cause both parties loss and soothing, in order to further develop the rights of use for a limited period of time into full ownership. [[9.50]] This gives Hungary two valuable properties in the Polish capital. In the same way, Poland receives two very valuable properties here in Budapest. We see that this agreement is based on parities in all important respects and does not cause any loss to either party. What is more, it can be a very important step forward in bilateral relations, as it is practically the only element of the otherwise excellent Hungarian-Polish relationship system and friendship in which, if not a debate, there has been a difference in interpretation over the past years, and this has come to light, and even though it has not, in fact, burdened or surrounded the otherwise constructive and forward-looking dialogue. Dear House, Another important element of integration to government goals and tasks is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's endeavour to use, develop or, if necessary, relocate Hungarian owned or used real estates in the host countries in the most economical way possible in line with the level of political relations and the conditions of the country's real estate market, so this step is also part of a broader concept of real estate planning. According to the provisions of the Protocol, in the spirit of reciprocity, the full ownership of the properties concerned in relation to Hungarian diplomatic buildings in Warsaw is transferred to the Hungarian State, while Polish diplomatic buildings in Budapest are transferred to the Polish State, mutatis mutandis. By settling the ownership of the aforementioned properties, a clear legal situation will be created for both the Hungarian and the Polish parties, which can contribute to the further consolidation of the historic Polish-Hungarian friendship by eliminating all uncertainty about ownership. The Parties to the Protocol shall, in order to facilitate the maintenance and exercise of bilateral relations, mutually exempt each other from any taxes and charges arising from the use of property. On this basis, I respectfully ask this House to adopt the bill that has been tabled, because it serves Hungary's interests in all respects, and may result in the elimination of an important legal and practical problem in a system of relations as privileged and important to us as the Hungarian-Polish system. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2017-09-20-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-19	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members. There is almost no day on which there is no common Hungarian-Polish matter. This is the case today; there is a geopolitical reason for this. The importance of Central Europe is increasing, and it is a tangible sign that the Poles are on the move to build a gas corridor in the north-south, with two ends in the Baltic Sea and on the Adriatic. But the sign of this strengthening is that our Visegrád unit is constantly being subjected to attempts to tear down from the outside. However, there are also pleasant everyday events such as the appearance of Visegrádio's broadcasts, the series of V4 News and cultural events and so on. And today, on a seemingly dry legal procedure, I would like the House to take me through, because there is also a friendly gesture behind this. As far as the act is concerned, we recognise the clear rightful ownership of the buildings that have so far been disputed, and the Polish embassy in Budapest belongs to the Poles, and the Hungarian embassy in Warsaw is ours. The end of a legal clarification process. This does not seem to be so important in itself, but if we look around a little, we can see that they are discussing the origins of beaches, complete half-islands, parts of countries and provinces in Europe. The process of recognition is not typical of what is going on between us, which we are going to vote on here. This is a symbol of mutual recognition for our alliance because we recognize each other's ownership of the representative buildings of our countries by mutually enriching them. I am trying to avoid business terms in my speech, because I think that this elegant gesture is about more than just a good deal, it is about more than a common legal agreement. Embassies are symbols, they represent a country, we find our flag on them in every country. We will go to these buildings if we express our sympathy or our dissatisfaction with the represented country. These buildings provide protection in times of danger, a country accepts us if we flee here, so I believe that this recognition of ownership is about mutual recognition of the two peoples. I ask this House to make this bilateral gesture possible with its votes. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-20-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us concerns the publication of a protocol under which, in the spirit of reciprocity, the ownership of Hungarian diplomatic property in Warsaw is transferred to the Hungarian State, while the ownership of Polish diplomatic property in Budapest is transferred to the Polish State. The settlement of the ownership of these properties creates a clear legal situation for both the Hungarian and the Polish parties. The Parties to the Protocol shall, in order to facilitate the maintenance and exercise of bilateral relations, mutually exempt each other from any taxes and charges arising from the use of property. The Protocol provides for the reciprocal transfers of the parties, the precise indication of the properties covered by the Protocol and the indication of a symbolic purchase price under the rules of diplomacy. By concluding the Protocol, the Hungarian party, in exchange for the properties conferred on it by the Polish party, renounces its claim to the property of Warsaw under an earlier interstate contract. It provides for the free fitness of the transferred immovable property at the same time as the release of the sale for exclusive diplomatic purposes. As the Secretary of State said in his expo, we could say that this is a legal issue, but we think that this agreement goes further than that, so the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group naturally supports the adoption of the proposal. However, we are talking about Hungarian-Polish relations, and this has been done by my fellow Member Szabolcs and, of course, also by the Secretary of State in his expozee - how should I put it? - on the political side, I would like to say a few things about how we see Hungarian-Polish relations. As we know, the governing houses of the two countries have established very close family and diplomatic relations between each other from the time of our foundings, behind which there was also the Catholic Church, and here many saints - from St. Adalbert to St. Imre - could be classified as many people. The most important personality is, by the way, King Lajos Nagy and his daughter, St. Hedvig, whose activities are linked to the only Hungarian-based order of monks, the installation of Paulos in Poland, and the establishment of the częstochowa monastery. So the two peoples were always able to unite against the danger of coming, always helping each other when it came to our independence. In 1830 and 1863 thousands of Hungarian volunteers took part on the Polish side, hundreds of people died heroically for independent Poland. The Polish people did the same in 1848-49 when, under the leadership of Abbot Bem, voluntary Polish regions fought for independent Hungary. Then, in 1920, Hungary helped the Poles again in the Polish Bolshevik War. In 1939, more than 100,000 Polish civilians and soldiers fled from Poland occupied by the Germans and the Soviets, so that most of them would fight the war on the side of the Allies. And in 1956 it was the Poles who gave the Hungarian Revolution the biggest voluntary help. [[10.00]] This cooperation, this co-thinking and joint planning can still be seen in action today, but unfortunately in a slightly different way, in an Orbán and Kaczyński way. In political and media circles, there have been long whispers of regular secret meetings, exchange of campaign advisors and agreed anti-Brussels action by the leaders of the Fidesz and the Justice Party currently governing Poland. In addition, government relations are also very strong, there is a ministerial meeting almost every week in Budapest or Warsaw, and the next time Viktor Orbán will be travelling to the Polish capital on Friday. This is not a coincidence, since the two governing parties have a lot in common, their goals, visions and ideals are essentially identical. It is enough to refer only to the debate between the Polish Government and the EU on judicial reform in Poland. According to Warsaw, this would rid the country of the judges appointed at the time of socialism, whereas those with democratic values object to the appointment of the leaders of the judiciary being handed over to the executive and legislative authorities, i.e. to abolish the independence of the judiciary. It is also a common feature of the two countries that the state of democracy and concerns about human rights and the rule of law can be raised in both countries, as well as in the situation and functioning of the media. In Poland, the post of government commissioner responsible for the introduction of the euro has been spectacularly abolished, thus expressing their opposition to the introduction of the euro, like Hungary. The adoption of the European common currency is not only economic...
u2017-09-20-22	Mr President, I cannot in any way classify this general analysis as the actual content of the contract. So, with all due respect, I'm gonna ask you to go over there and continue with that.
u2017-09-20-23	As I said, Mr President, I wanted to talk about this because of the current agreement between Hungary and Poland, but here I just wanted to point out that Poland and I can stay out of the discussions of the transforming euro zone, where important decisions can be taken in the financial field of the continent, and from this we conclude that the illiberalism of Orbán and Kaczyński not only removes Hungary and Poland from the European Union, but also by preventing and evacuating the project of cooperation in Visegrád, because it is not by chance that Hungary and Poland are called the axis of cooperation in Visegrád, as the Secretary of State said, but the V4 today, we see V2+2, because in many cases the Czech Republic and Slovakia do not criticize Poland's illiberal policy loudly, but both countries have made public that they would rather go towards the internal core of the EU. We believe that Hungary is not equal to Orbán, Poland is not equal to Kaczyński, we believe that the historical friendship of the two peoples will survive. But, as I said, of course, the bill on the publication of the protocol before us will be supported by the Group. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-09-20-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is a mutual settlement of the legal situation of diplomatic property between Poland and Hungary. All leading speakers have already spoken about the fact that Polish-Hungarian friendship is practically a thousand years old, in our history there have been many reciprocal points where the two states have touched one another, and the two peoples are very proud that the two countries have never waged war with each other, and even in tourism the Poles regularly proclaim this, and the two peoples have always tried to help each other with a common border, so that cooperation of this kind is practically unique throughout the world. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary therefore welcomes all kinds of agreements that go further in relation to Polish-Hungarian friendship and cooperation. We therefore welcome, of course, this current agreement, which lies before us. Obviously, it is important that the legal situation of real estate is clarified, and it is particularly important that between two countries such as Poland and Hungary, which have traditionally been very old friends with each other, there should not be any points where we do not settle our relationship with each other. So even if it's not a big deal, it's just the ownership of some real estate, it's still very important that they're okay. This step will lead to a clear legal situation, since the buildings in Warsaw are owned by the Hungarian State, and those in Budapest will be owned by the Polish State, so that we can mutually clarify this legal situation that was, although it has obviously not caused much tension in the relationship between the two countries. This, by the way, is fully in line with the Vienna Convention, with its spirit, so we are in any way pleased that the fate of these diplomatic properties will be resolved. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary naturally supports the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-20-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-27	Thank you again, Mr President, for this opportunity and thank you to the parties for their supporting contributions. Perhaps I would add so much that, of course, as he pointed out, the roots of Hungarian-Polish friendship go back so far, so far back, and so deeply rooted that this extremely important bilateral relationship - perhaps once again the most respected of all - is much more determined by this vast historical and rich heritage than by a government, which has a mandate for a period of four years, in what way these relations are currently maintained by a government. I would like to stress that here we must act as guardians of a historical heritage, as guardians of a historical heritage, and that practice during the period of a few years cannot be regarded as decisive in this respect. But we are proud that, as with the previous Polish Cabinet, the current Polish Cabinet, we support each other in international forums, Poland consistently stands up for Hungary's interests, and vice versa: Hungary helps Poland achieve its international goals in every possible forum. Honourable Congressman, I would like to emphasise once again that, just as the Hungarian-Polish government contacts with the previous Tusk Cabinet were at least as intense, so the dialogue with the current Szydło Cabinet is intense, and that is right, we want to maintain this, and we also want to maintain that the V4 cooperation, which in recent years has received an unprecedented visibility and has gained importance, should develop only in the direction of strengthening. Hungary is perhaps the main engine of this cooperation - as it comes from its name, Visegrad is located in Hungary - in these years, since we were the first to put the topic on our flag, the extremely important, geostrategic and historic endeavour to stop illegal migration. We represent this password most impressively, and to our greatest pleasure our Visegrád partners have caught up in this endeavour, and they are working with us in this area with a fruitful cooperation, which has given the Visegrád Four, in other aspects, a kind of auditoryness and visibility in relation to other professional issues, which were not necessarily the case in the past, and we consider this to be our strategic interest, our interest in national strategy and, by the way, our geopolitical interest, to continue to do so. After all, Hungary alone, as we have seen through so many examples, can act with much less voice and much less influence in various cases in the international world than if it is behind it, with these three other countries beside it, because as a representative of a good 60 million region - as its current representative, as we are the president for a year - we can show common interests in the international arena of international diplomacy. [[10.10]] This has produced spectacular results in many ways, and let us think that the leaders of world powers have visited the Visegrád 4 in recent years, which, for some reason, might have shown less willingness to start or deepen the dialogue. This trend must be maintained. We must work with all our might to ensure that the cohesion and internal unity of V4 is not only maintained, but further strengthened. For us, it has become one of our most important foreign policy strategic objectives over the past period to strengthen V4, to strengthen hairline cracks that may arise in this cohesive cooperation in a case, to eliminate them in the light of our strength and capabilities, to the fullest extent possible, to use the ability of these four countries to cooperate with such efficiency, and to further develop this ability, to develop our ability to represent common interests once more, with greater weight and greater effectiveness than before. Therefore, I think it is very important that every step, even if it seems to be a small step, which can strengthen the Polish-Hungarian axis of cooperation, should be represented with full effort and full attention. We must lead to the maximum opportunity, because there is no doubt that Hungarian-Polish undisturbed friendship is a gift of the V4 cooperation, which enables this cooperation to bridge possible disagreements on a subject and can contribute to it. So I would like to ask this House once again, although I see that the request is largely pointless, because everyone has expressed their support for this protocol Ratification to vote in favour when it comes to it. After all, it is a small step in the elimination of the mistakes of the past, but it is a step in the path leading to the complete and complete elimination of the communist-socialist heritage of the country, on which the government is progressing unbroken and the more effective it can act, the greater internal political support it enjoys. I think that this is a common interest, in addition to diplomatic considerations. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-20-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, until closure. Government referral T/17302. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Hungarian Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. Your time frame is 30 minutes again.
u2017-09-20-29	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. We are talking about ratification of an agreement under this item, which may generate even less debate and comment than the previous item, since it is about ratification of an agreement concluded by the European Union and a third country. In this connection, however, I would like to highlight and stress the fact that, if the Parliament accepts this according to the timetable, Hungary will certainly be the fourth among the countries that have ratified it, and although this is obviously a small gesture, but it is still a gesture recorded by many in terms of Hungary's commitment to the consolidation of Afghanistan, the future of Afghanistan, and in relation to the settlement and development of the Afghan-European Union relationship. It is clear that Afghanistan will not soon be able to escape the situation that has been brought about by the wars of recent decades without significant international assistance and the possibility of relying on international partners. An important aspect for Afghanistan is that the new strategy announced by the Trump administration, namely President Trump, puts the situation in Afghanistan and its solution perspectives in a way that the international community has not previously considered. The announcement was made a few weeks ago by the President of the United States that instead of the American move previously envisaged, which would have meant virtually the full withdrawal and the attempt to bring Afghanistan to its own feet, the Taliban, the total war against terrorists, was announced instead. In this context, it is expected that requests from America will be made to the various Allied States in order to ask for help with the military tasks to be carried out jointly, since it is clear that America cannot take this on its own, at least it is highly likely that it will contact its partners with a request for significant international engagement. Nevertheless, we consider it a great achievement that, after many years of negotiations between the European Union and Afghanistan, this comprehensive agreement has been negotiated, which is the first such comprehensive agreement between the two international entities in its genre, in its kind and in its kind. This can make a significant contribution to the development of relations from an EU perspective, as it also covers aspects such as plant health or the harmonisation of different regulatory criteria in different areas of economic life. Dear House, In this context, the 2011 Bonn Afghanistan Conference on the Future of Afghanistan decided to establish the EU's and Afghanistan's relations in a comprehensive contractual document confirming the EU's and Afghanistan's partnership, the EU's commitment to establishing and strengthening Afghanistan's security and state security and democratic settlement, the reconstruction of the country. In November 2011, the Council of the European Union authorised the Commission and the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy to open negotiations with Afghanistan on this agreement. Negotiations started in 2011 were interrupted in 2012 and the prolonged electoral process in Afghanistan continued in 2015, following the establishment of the National Unity Government. By sharing the views of the majority of EU countries, our country has supported the agreement to be a so-called mixed agreement, i.e. national decision-making on non-Community policy issues, and the full entry into force of this agreement requires the approval of national parliaments. On 15 February this year, Hungary signed the document, and on 13 February 2017, the Council of the European Union adopted Decision No 434 authorising the signing of the Agreement by the Union, the provisional application of the provisions of EU competence between the EU and Afghanistan. The agreements were signed by the Union on 18 February 2017, i.e. a few days after the mandate was granted. This Agreement provides a comprehensive legal framework for relations between the Union and the Member States and Afghanistan, to promote the country's security and stability, and to deepen partnership relations based on common values and principles. [[10.20]] The agreement also includes political commitments in which the EU and Afghanistan demonstrate their willingness to cooperate in areas such as the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and arms control, respect for and protection of human rights. Under the agreement, cooperation is based on respect for democratic principles, international law and the principles set out in the UN Statute, as is self-evident in any such agreement. The agreement also covers cooperation on development, economic and trade and home affairs issues, as well as a wide range of policy areas, such as migration issues, education, culture, disaster protection, corruption and the fight against drugs, which are also addressed in particular by our country. In the area of development cooperation, it is important to apply the principle of mutual accountability, i.e. compliance with commitments. With the agreement's approval, we can not simply help to address the problems in specific areas of expertise properly, but also clearly demonstrate our willingness and determination to participate actively in multilateral efforts to strengthen international security. The agreement has been signed by all EU countries and its requirements are fully in line with our national interests. On this basis, I ask this House to adopt the bill that has been tabled, because, as we have emphasised, it is not only in the interests of the European Union, but also of Hungary, because it is in our common interest that this very important country of migration should be consolidated in the future. Of course, we will not determine the means by which this consolidation should take place, whether it should continue the decades-old tradition of the international community seeking military force to enforce its interests and to promote the pacification of Afghanistan, or whether we are using other means. It's a difficult question. We are pleased that we do not have to answer this, but the international community can, of course, count on Hungary's help, support and financial sacrifice to strengthen Afghanistan and consolidate the democratic settlement in Afghanistan. Hungary has been offering and paying $1 million a year under NATO in order to support these goals by joining such international efforts. Afghanistan - once again - is a country with an extremely young population, a population of which a large part do not see the prospect of prosperity in this war-torn country, and so they choose the way that in other countries, in recent years, in different countries of the European Union, they have been looking for the opportunity to prosper, to make a living, and in the hope of a better life, they are starting this dangerous road, and we have seen the dramatic consequences and impact of it in our daily lives here in Hungary over the past few years. The Hungarian Government has always said on this issue that we must give help. This is our moral duty and our political interest. However, not in the narrow-minded way that we open our own gates, uncontrolled, let these masses in, as this only exacerbates the security, material, political, cultural and other burdens imposed on us by the phenomenon, but that help should be taken into place with those people who consider their existence to be hopeless in their mother country, as this way we can help them to choose to remain in the mother country as much as possible. Of course, we need to provide substantial help to this, but Hungary has demonstrated in many ways in recent years that, contrary to the accusations we have received, not only in terms of words, but also with a very serious financial sacrifice, it is ready to make these efforts in the interest of the international community. This will be no different in the future, because we regard that compulsion and that imperialist as our own and acknowledge ourselves that we must give help in terms of our strength and opportunities, but we want to define this in a sovereign way in the future, not allowing it and resisting any attempt to impose upon us any external actor's obligation to live with the masses in which we see inherent national security and national strategy threats. Dear House, In this context, I ask that all parties and Members support this agreement, as it is a milestone in the process of efforts by the international community to consolidate Afghanistan. I believe that the European Union must play a greater role in this process in the future, because so far the United States has carried the flag, and this may continue to be the case, but the European Union must absorb itself, strengthen itself and show determination. After all, it has the power to become a major international player, but political will seems to have been lacking in recent years, so we welcome this agreement, which can be one of the pillars of such a stronger, more focused European Union action, as the legal basis for this. We must be there as the European Union in the different crisis zones of the world, but not destructive, but acting in such a way that it serves the real interests of the peoples who live there, thus representing Hungarian national interests on such an indirect basis in these crisis zones. Dear House, I ask with respect for the support of the bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-20-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to recognise the mandatory scope of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, and to publish it in law. We could also say that it is actually just a technical decision, as is the case in many international treaties. But there is also a more important dimension: according to the European Statistical Office, Eurostat, 41 thousand people came from Afghanistan to Europe as illegal immigrants in 2014 and 180 thousand people in 2015. According to statistics from the German asylum office, more than a quarter of those who came here from Afghanistan never went to school, i.e. they come to Europe illegally in bulk, Afghans who have little chance of being integrated into European societies in a short time and become a decent taxpayer. There could also be a longer discussion here about the reasons for this and how we have historically come to this point, that they are moving from Afghanistan to a mass, but I would just like to say briefly here that the partnership and development cooperation agreement is also important because it can help to create a more stable, better situation in Afghanistan, which would be an important element of not wandering. And we are convinced that we should not bring people here when there is trouble in their country, as George Soros and his organisations want, but that there is a need to solve problems and keep people there, but that the help of Europeans is essential. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-09-20-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.30]]
u2017-09-20-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 February 2017, the European Council decided to sign the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the Union and Afghanistan, which was signed a few days later in Munich. The Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement establishes a new framework for relations between the EU and Afghanistan, which, building on the commitments set out at the Afghanistan Conference on 4-5 October 2016, formally sets out the commitments that the Union intends to implement in the framework of the 2014-2024 Renewal Decade in order to develop Afghanistan. The agreement reflects the principles and conditions of the future partnership. It emphasises regular political dialogue, including on human rights issues and, in particular, women's and children's rights. Under the agreement, the Parties will build mutually beneficial relations in an increasing number of areas of the economy and policy, in particular: the rule of law, health, rural development, education, science and technology, and measures to combat corruption, money laundering, terrorist financing, organised crime and drug trafficking. The Parties also agreed on migration cooperation, based on the EU-Pakistan common migration concept adopted at the beginning of October 2016. The Cooperation Agreement provides opportunities for joint action on global challenges such as nuclear security and climate change. The document was signed and concluded as a mixed agreement by the parties. This means that it must be signed by both the EU and the Member States on the part of the Union and confirmed by all relevant national and regional parliaments. Until each Member State confirms the agreement, it will be applied on a provisional basis. This means the application of measures that concern matters falling within the competence of the Union, including, inter alia, political dialogue, human rights, gender equality, development, migration and regional cooperation and cooperation on trade and investment issues. Naturally, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the presentation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-09-20-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a bill that I believe every parliamentary party in Hungary, every faction, supports, a partnership and development cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other hand, which we support, in particular, the Jobbik Hungary Movement, because since migration has been raised as a question - and we have talked about it many times in the Hungarian Parliament - Jobbik Hungary Movement has always expressed its position that migration must be stopped, and migrants should be kept away from Europe as far as possible, but in any way from Hungary. And in all cases, we have also expressed our view that the problem of migration should preferably not be solved in Europe, but in those states where migration has been raised, from which it starts, which is the starting point. Obviously, it is not a solution in itself that crowds on Europe's borders are waiting for them to enter Europe, but it would be best to resolve this in the countries where the problem arises. We also need to see when we looked at the ethnic composition of migrants, that very much of them came from Afghanistan. So even when the Syrian crisis was at its peak, one third of the migrants came from Afghanistan. So this is one of the countries where migration is the starting point for migrants, so it would be in the pan-European interest to do everything in order not to have a situation in these countries where the migration crisis continues to escalate. This is why Hungary welcomes this agreement in any way. We do not say that this agreement alone will lead to results; this agreement alone will eliminate the wave of migration in Afghanistan, obviously it will not eliminate it, it will continue to come, but this is, to say, a zero step, a preliminary step towards resolving this situation in the future. We also need to see that the history of Afghanistan and the events that marked it, the ongoing war in Afghanistan for several decades, and then the infighting that took place in the country after the Soviet army's withdrawal, or the war that took place there, or internal problems, cannot be resolved overnight, but it is absolutely important that the European Union takes that zero step at this level and sets the basis that it might be possible to solve this problem. We have to see that we are talking about a huge country, because Afghanistan has 647 500 square kilometres, so it is seven times the territory of Hungary. Compared to this, the population is only three times the population, 32 million inhabitants. And with $1,490, their per capita GDP is rather low, so the Afghan people are poor. This is also due to emigration on the one hand, and to the fact that some of their economies are run by drugs, as they are also known for their production and export of drugs. This means that crime can also occur at a relatively high level in such countries. So when we conclude a cooperation agreement and lay the foundations for this cooperation agreement, if this will be respected in the future, we believe that it can in any case mean moving in a positive direction. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary naturally supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-20-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Hungarian Levente, while saying no with his head: Thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to all of you that it is possible to present the amendments tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is now now taking place. The government referral is T/17304. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-37	Mr President, Dear House, I am very honored that you can have 30 minutes on this important agenda, but I think that you may be able to sum up the substance in a shorter way. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish by Parliament the Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, on the other hand, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Framework Agreement provides a basis for more effective cooperation between the European Union and its Member States with Vietnam in the areas of development, trade and the economy and facilitates the signing of the Free Trade Agreement with Vietnam. Croatia shall become party to this agreement by joining the Protocol to be published in this bill. Dear House, Vietnam has undergone rapid economic and social transformation over the last two decades, while integrating it into the world economy. [[10.40]] Older people may still remember, at the beginning of the 1960s and 1970s, all the news began with Hanoi and Saigon; today there is a very different world, the terrible war is over, there is serious economic development, one of the fastest developing countries in the region, with an average GDP increase of 6 per cent between 2010 and 16 per cent. He has been a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations since 95 and has played an active role in deepening South East Asia's integration. Vietnam played the role of coordinator of relations between the Alliance and the European Union between 2012 and 15 and has also done a work recognised by the European Union to develop relations. The Union is Vietnam's third largest trading partner. In the area of development cooperation, the EU's largest donor of Vietnam, EUR 400 million for the period 2014-20, has been allocated for this purpose, with the main areas of good governance, energy and the fight against climate change. On this basis, it can be concluded that Vietnam is one of the Union's main partners in Southeast Asia. The basis for this cooperation is the framework agreement which entered into force in the 16th year. The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation was an important step forward for the enhanced political and economic engagement of the Union in Southeast Asia. It includes EU standard political clauses on human rights, the International Criminal Court, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism. It strengthens sectoral cooperation in a number of policy areas such as taxation, migration, health, climate change, energy, education, culture, labour, employment and social affairs, science and technology and transport. It also covers legal cooperation, money laundering and terrorist financing, organised crime and corruption, as well as areas that concern Vietnam in particular: human rights, the rule of law, but explosive devices that are left behind from the war, and the rest, I might say, are very broad spectrum. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary and Vietnam traditionally have good relations. Hungary and Vietnam established diplomatic relations in 1950. At the beginning of 2006, our Consulate General in Ho Chi Minh closed, and in March 15 he resumed his operation, and one thing we cannot go away: as part of the cooperation of the Visegrád countries, he is issuing Schengen visas for the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland as of 1 April of this year. Our country has significant contact capital in Vietnam, as there are about four thousand intellectuals who once studied in Hungary. I used to have a soccer partner named Chu, and he studied Hungarian at the International Preparatory Institute; there was no time when he could not attend any joint program. Since then, he has improved Hungarian relations in Vietnam. In the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship, 101 Vietnamese students are currently conducting studies in Hungary. There are several institutional cooperations, such as the International Olympic Committee, sibling settlements, networking between the various ministries, and the Hungarian-Vietnam Friendship Department was established here in April 2010 and there is a regular link between the two countries' legislation. Good cooperation and experience in the political and economic restructuring of the years after the change of regime provide a good basis for further broadening bilateral cooperation. In short, this House, bilateral agreements and institutional cooperation all serve the purpose of strategically building bilateral relations in order to ensure that traditional friendly relations develop substantially in the interests of both countries. among the challenges of the century. For this reason, I would also like to call for support, as a result of Croatia's accession to the EU, for the publication of the Protocol on Vietnam. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-20-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State! Dear House, We've had diplomatic relations with Vietnam since 1950. Since 1968 we have concluded many bilateral agreements, including agreements in the fields of health, consular, taxation, civil law, development, economic, education. It wasn't just a year when we made two agreements. It may also be said that there are few states in Europe that maintain a similar old relationship with Vietnam as Hungary. As the Secretary of State has said, over the past decades, about four thousand Vietnamese students have graduated from higher education institutions in Hungary, and there are few places in the world where so many people speak Hungarian as a foreign language, as in Vietnam. Fortunately, these excellent cultural relationships are only expanding. The educational cooperation programme for the years 2016-18 was signed by Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó during his official visit to Hano in January 2016. According to the agreement, 100 students can study higher education in Hungary every year. But we also have excellent political relations. The highest level of political meetings have continued over the last decade. Three Heads of State, two Heads of Government and two Deputy Prime Ministers were formally visited in Hungary and Vietnam. My fellow Member, Péter Szijjártó, has visited Vietnam twice, once again as Secretary of State and once as Minister of State. These success stories also improve our economic relations. Vietnam was Hungary's 59th trading partner in 2015 and 53rd in 2016. The bilateral trade in goods increased by some 40 percent in 2016 to $200 million. Hungarian exports increased by 13 percent to 76 million dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, This shows that Hungary has friendly, political and economic ties with Vietnam, and Hungary is also fully committed to opening the European Union to Vietnam. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. It is true that this is actually just a small change, that we are complementing an agreement that is already in force, but it is important that the agreement is complete and that we continue to deepen our relations with Vietnam. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-20-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-09-20-41	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us concerns the publication of a protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, annexed to the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, was signed in Brussels on 27 June 2012 and entered into force on 1 October 2016. The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation represents an important step forward for the enhanced political and economic engagement of the European Union in Southeast Asia. It includes EU standard policy clauses on human rights, the International Criminal Court, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism. The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation provides a basis for more effective cooperation between the EU and its Member States with Vietnam in the areas of development, trade and the economy and facilitates the signing of a free trade agreement with Vietnam. [[10.50]] The conclusion of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation is in line with the EU's objective of establishing a comprehensive and coherent economic and political framework for relations between the EU and ASEAN countries. In Hungary, the 2013 CV on the publication of the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The adoption of the law was then unanimously supported by the Parliament. The Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union was signed in Brussels on 19 November 2014 with a view to Croatia's accession to the European Union. Pursuant to Article I of the Protocol, the Republic of Croatia shall accede as a Party to the Agreement and shall adopt and take note of the text of the Agreement and the declarations attached thereto in the same manner as the other Member States of the European Union. Of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group will support the presentation. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-20-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyüre. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-09-20-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with Vietnam, several international treaties or agreements have already been placed at the Parliament's table in the last seven years, so one that has now been brought here because Croatia has joined the European Union must also be maintained with regard to it, which has been signed due to Croatia's accession to the European Union. Why Vietnam is a significant country in the relationship between the European Union and Vietnam has already spoken about this before me, but I would also like to say a few things. Vietnam is about three and a half times larger territorially than Hungary, but it is a very dynamically developing Asian country. I'd like to give you some data on how far he's progressing. About a year ago Minister Lázár spoke about how good it would be if Hungary's economy could be put on a developing path where GDP growth would be above 4 percent per year, and Hungary would be able to achieve this permanently for several years. This would be a goal for Hungary. I told you this because we can compare it to Vietnam's development. In Vietnam, a dynamic economic development started in 1990, when GDP growth exceeded 8 percent. But this was not typical for a year, for eight years on a continuous basis, almost throughout the 1990s, Vietnam was able to continue this kind of development, the GDP growth of over 8 per cent per year, and then from 2000 it did not fall too much, as we can talk about GDP growth of 7 per cent per year and continue to produce this for 15 years, I think it is a very big thing, even if Vietnam started very low on the path to economic development. But he came to a very high level, because on the basis of this 15-year economic development, Vietnam began to be classified as one of the Asian tigers. So his economy has developed enormously, but so has his population, as in 1960 there were only 35 million people, by 1990 the population has doubled to 70 million, and today there is a population of around 95 million Vietnam. This also shows the development dynamism represented by Vietnam in terms of both the economy and population. It has also been said that previous speakers have said that Vietnam is an important economic partner for both the European Union and Hungary. This is why it is necessary to establish as many international contractual relations as possible between the two countries and between the European Union and Vietnam, as well as between Hungary and Vietnam. Obviously, this will also bring about the development of the Hungarian economy. In any case, Vietnam is a special country in terms of the fact that today there is still a socialist country, a one-party system in Vietnam, but Vietnam considers the kind of political arrangement that is in China as a model, a one-party system with an open economy that allows development into the economy and can control the development of the economy by the country and the government. Because of Vietnam's developing economy, its developing population, its economic weight and all aspects, it is important that these contracts be concluded, and in this case Croatia's entry into the EU brings the fact that Hungary must also accept the Protocol. Of course, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supports this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-20-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This concludes the speech of the lead speaker. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Yes.]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-09-20-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, First of all, I thank both the Socialist Group and the Jobbik Group for their support. We hope that this will also be reflected in the vote when the final vote takes place. I think that on this subject we have said all the important things on the part of any political group that are necessary for the publication of the Protocol to this Convention. It is clear that this is important due to Croatia's future accession to the EU, but not only in this way, but also in bilateral relations, because it has the personalities I have mentioned. And what Csaba Gyüre said is important too. These are in the report. There are criteria for the rule of law, legal certainty and democracy, which should be established in the coming period, so to speak, with regard to the abolition of the one-party system and the completion of democracy. Once again, thanks to the support of honourable Members, I propose to Parliament that the protocol be adopted. Mr President, Thank you very much for your attention. And if I may, Mr. President, I'd like a five-minute recess.
u2017-09-20-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted tomorrow, Thursday, at 4 p.m. I now accept Mr. Secretary of State's request for a five-minute recess. With all due respect, my fellow Members, I would like to ask that these five minutes be interpreted flexibly, because the Minister has arrived. I know why Mr. Secretary asked for this break. Let us wait for Minister to take his place, and then we shall shrink the five minutes for this half-minute and continue our debate. Shall we begin, Minister? [[John Lazarus: Yes.]] Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 67/1990 concerning the departments of the Republic of Hungary, the name and seat of the counties. General discussion of the proposal for a decision amending the Decision until closure. Presentation by our fellow Members, János Lázár and Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz H/1726. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-09-20-47	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! The amendment of the resolution proposal before the National Assembly includes the proposed amendment to the Parliamentary Decision of 67/1990 on the counties and the name and seat of the counties of the Republic of Hungary. Together with my fellow Member, Zoltán Kovács, we propose that the county register in the parliamentary decision be changed by the Parliament, and the Parliament should give us the support to name the county of Csongrád as Csongrád-Csanád County from 4 June 2020. [[11.00]] The reasons for this are set out in the written explanation of the proposal, and I would not comment on this in a specific technical or legal sense, because I think that what has been said and described so far makes the situation absolutely clear. I would like to give Parliament so much background to the debate as rapporteur that, obviously, for the past 50 to 70 years in Hungary, and for the thousand years left behind, names, localities have a historical message, significance and role. My fellow Members in Parliament have the right to recall the few lines of Dezső Kosztolányi, which say that "Just stick and canvas, but not stick and canvas, / but flag. This suggests that, as the flag has a symbolic message, not just a canvas and not just a stick, so the local names, settlement names, county names, administrative borders and names have unfortunately become symbolic messages over the last hundred years. As we know, Hungary's administrative arrangement has a thousand years of history. Csanád county was founded in 1030 and was founded after Szent István counties. This county is also one of the oldest diocese centers with the Bishop of Csanád and the Bishop of Csanád. This natural organic administrative development ended in 1920, which meant that from the middle of the country Békés county, Csongrád county and Csanád county became the edge of the country. I think that for my fellow Members of Parliament, some of whom supported the presentation in the Commission debate, I do not need to explain specifically what the situation is like socially, economically and even in terms of the sense of life, the viability of life if someone lives for a while in the middle of the country and suddenly finds himself on the edge of the country. I think that anyone who has been in Békés county as a Member of Parliament or knows the eastern part of Csongrád county can see that the country's eastern border is still characterised by high unemployment, lower than average incomes, lower pensions, lower average earnings. I believe that the socio-economic conditions developed there cannot be separated from the fact that, almost a hundred years ago, as a result of a violent dictatorship, the national border and the administrative border were changed, not the performance, preparedness, work or commitment of these people to home. As is known, following the 1920 peace dictatorship, the government attempted to temporarily maintain its administrative system for the county of Csanád and the county of Toronto during the years of consolidation. However, this was abolished after the Second World War, the remaining parts of Csanád County, which represented tens of thousands of settlements, and the remaining settlements in Torontal, which were only two percent of the ten thousand square kilometres of the former Torontol Castle County, were consolidated under the name of Csongrád County. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think that this act, which is rarely mentioned in today's Hungarian politics and history, meant brutal destruction, not only in 1920, but also in the 1950s Council law and the new Council system, clearly shows that it was not only about the mutilation of the country, but also about the mutilation of the Hungarians. We're dealing with two mutilations. There was an external mutilation in Trianon, and there was an internal mutilation during communism when people were taken away from their identities. They took away the national identity and also took away the local identity. I believe that Parliament has a serious responsibility at all times, and it cannot be called into account that everything has not happened in the last 30 years, because in one step it is not possible to destroy and rebuild 50 years of communism in a civil society, but Parliament, legislature and executive power always have a responsibility, that if, by the way, the local community has the power, the ability and the need to rehabilitate that local community, the small community where it has lived for a thousand years, and whose traditions continue to prevail to this day, it should create a framework for this. My initiative with Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary for Territorial Administration, was born because this renaming cannot have a negative impact on the functioning of the territorial administration, it can only have a positive impact on the lives of more than a dozen settlements where there is not a Csongrád county identity, but a Csanádi identity. These settlements bear not only on their behalf the fate of this region, its past, its community cohesion, but also culturally it is another community. To my well-known fellow Members, it is clear that during the election campaign, my fellow members of the opposition and pro-government will talk a lot about it, that the reorganization of constituencies has resulted in the new electoral procedural law, that one side of my constituency is the town of Hódmezővásárhely with county rights, and the other side is the city of Mako. Over the past three years, I have learned well on my own skin, along with my own experiences and my own failures that these two communities are culturally different, different identities. The city of Mako and the citizens of Mako have their own identity, which is not in Csongrád, Csongrád county, it is not in Szeged and in fairs, but specifically in Makó and Csanadi identity, with completely different sociological characteristics and cultural traditions than in other parts of the county. I asked the county assembly, as the association of local settlements, to consider the possibility of renaming this initiative from the city of Mako, which I was the leader of. I also contacted the municipal authorities. After the municipal authorities, which were involved in this issue, made the decision and said, together with the county assembly, that they would ask the National Assembly to consider this, so that Csongrád county would also take up the name of the former Csanád county, just as in the two world wars the then government did not allow the former administrative traditions to be completely interrupted, yet the manifestation of cultural identity must be realized in the names and historical localities, so I ask the Parliament to consider this in any way. It is never too late to support local patriots and patriots. In a government or legislation, if the county assembly and local settlements consider this important, I think Parliament is wise to support this request. There were some counties where this was not considered justified, for example in the county of Pest, which is a much more complex issue, or even a more complex issue in the county of Nógrád. As far as I know, this debate has recently been conducted by three counties, and out of the three counties in one county have decided to ask Parliament to consider renaming, and the other two counties have rejected this idea. But if we already have such an experiment or such a thought, then I think we are not taking anything from anyone, but we are giving something to a community, a few tens of thousands of people. It is a pity, it is no loss to anyone that Csongrád County is also known in the future as Csongrád-Csanád County, because the people of Csanád have a problem not with living in Csongrád County, but with the fact that the Csanád identity has been completely wiped out, impossible and torn away. This manifests itself in a truly shocking social context that the artificially drawn, we hope, temporary border will break up Nagylak and the Romanian Nagylak, or break up Magyarchanád and Csanád a few kilometers away, and there is virtually no connection between these settlements, either socially, economically or culturally. This is not only because Ceaușescu has been quite cleverly romanticising this area with artificial resettlement, but also because the border has been a very serious border for many years, and it still represents a Schengen border, I note, which is obviously having different consequences than cooperation opportunities between countries where there is no Schengen border. So the very shocking situation is that settlements a few miles away for a thousand years together after Trianon have no connection at all. Destroying identity, eliminating it, I think, is visible, measurable, and there are consequences. I think all this social, psychological, sociological situation is inseparable from the state of these communities. Obviously, the government in Békés and Csongrád counties, or just like in South Baranya, strives for the inhabitants of border settlements, where the situation is interestingly worse everywhere than in the internal part of the country, so it also tries to implement social catching-up programmes on the outer edges, but I also think symbolic messages are needed. This is not an administrative matter, it is a symbolic matter, and I think it is a symbolic message for those who have felt in the last hundred years that they must live on the edge in a truncated society of a truncated country. I ask the National Assembly to consider the request, the suggestion that the settlements of Mako and the surrounding settlements belonging to Csanád, who asked for it, are proposing to the National Assembly that, from 4 June 2020, we call the county Csongrád-Csanád County at a minimum cost, providing an appropriate transitional period from 4 June 2020. I call for the support of my fellow Members of Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.10]]
u2017-09-20-48	I welcome my fellow Members and thank the rapporteur on the agenda, Minister János Lázár, for his speech. I'll ask if the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner on signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner.
u2017-09-20-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The government supports the idea because why shouldn't the Csanadians be entitled to the same rights as Győr-Moson-Sopron County, Komárom-Esztergom County, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, Hajdú-bihari County. Indeed, the county represents a fundamental territorial position for the Hungarian state, which has a thousand-year tradition, and any such gesture strengthens the identity that the Minister considers very important, and the county assembly itself supported the initiative, so we ask the Parliament to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-09-20-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-09-20-51	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In keeping with the millennia historical continuity of the counties of Hungary, the counties are also the cornerstone of the country's territorial division and administration in the existing public-law system. The name of the counties is an expression of historical continuity, but also a component of the identity of local communities. In this context, at the time of the change of regime, the names of several counties were extended by the name of former county whose parts of its territory, as a result of the administrative changes, were transferred to the said Trianon peace treaty, that county. In our view, the name of the counties established in 1990 still does not fully reflect the legacy of the historic county of Hungary in its present territory. The H/1726 ahead. 67/1990 on the counties of the Republic of Hungary, the name and seat of the counties. The proposal for a decision amending the parliamentary decision is intended to restore this heritage, because by changing Csongrád County to Csongrád-Csanád, our commitment to the traditions of the administrative territorial position of historical Hungary can be even more pronounced. The Parliament decides to change the name of the county by simple majority, asking the opinion of the county assembly concerned. In its decision of 30 June 2017, the Csongrád County General Assembly supported the proposal to change the county name. As a county of Csongrád, I would also symbolically join this county decision, and if I can add a little bit to the fact that the Csongrád-Csanád County and Csanád County identity gives me the strength to help the people who live there, I would be happy to do so, and I would ask the honourable Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-09-20-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-09-20-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I understand the initiative, but I'm looking at it a little differently, of course, from there, which is clearly related to the issue. I see that in recent years, if we are talking about the general and not the fate of a county, the name of a county, in general, Fidesz has emptied the system of operational mechanisms of county municipalities, has taken away its licenses, technically, if I were to say it very harshly, then I have to say that it has made the county governments a guitet. If we look into what is being done today within the county authorities, it is apparent that basically the provision of development-type resources will appear. I dare not say farming, not even because it is basically the managing authorities who are in a decision-making position in this regard, and the county municipalities or departments associated with county municipalities make decisions on the end-point by virtually displaying them without their knowledge. The point is - it is no accident that many people say that today it is not about anything but how and how development resources can be stolen as much as possible. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That is not what the proposal is about!]] - that the county authorities have no tangible powers, the county authorities have nothing to say in this sense. It is, of course, not random that we are talking about motions that can be matched by the needs associated with the use of the historical names of the counties. I'm not saying there's no place for that, no. I say that, in addition to all of this, there are real, tangible and problems that directly affect people's everyday life and that they are not properly placed in the life of the county municipality; real problems that affect people, which should be there in the field of vision, and which should be dealt with in substance. As I said, under the aegis of county authorities, preparations for the use of development resources are taking place, based on the scenarios of the managing authorities, preparations, evaluations and much more. The county authorities and their bodies do not even see the application documents, which will then be formally decided. They receive aggregate decision preparation materials, of course, confidentiality declarations and a lot of things, but their role is nothing else. In practical terms, industrial development plans have certain tasks in relation to spatial planning and spatial development, in many other respects, but they also become partially formal. The county authorities do nothing but listen to briefings, maybe they have a little more driver's license systems in terms of public order. Here also their consensual support is needed in the respective counties... [[The president's gonna turn off his mic.]]
u2017-09-20-54	Mr. Messenger! Congressman! On the basis of the provisions of the house rules, I must inform you that the general debate is now under way on a proposal for a resolution amending a parliamentary decision. I'd like you to get to the point, talk about that. What you have said is obviously a speech before the agenda, if you think it is necessary, you will say it on another occasion, but I would like to ask you, with respect, to remind you that it is my duty to tell you, and I would ask you not to have to warn you again. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz and Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-20-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am fully aware of what we are discussing, the issues related to the life of county municipalities, the names of which are, of course, organically matched by what I am talking about. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: How does it fit?]] , how to work within the framework of county municipalities. What I would therefore like to say, and no more, is that, in addition to all the issues that fit in with the operation of the county authorities, it would be worth a little more to deal with a little more in addition to the importance of such proposals made by the Secretary of State, the Minister, and the Member, I would like to propose to the initiators among the walls of Parliament that there is no longer any possibility for the county authorities to take action as a result of the completion of nationalisation and centralization tasks. [[11.20]] I would like to point out that, as a hundred people are concerned, whether they are disabled children, whether they are dementias or not, whether there was a multitude of opportunities to manage and help them, say, a decade ago within the framework of county governments, it would be worth considering and considering whether these types of issues could be enforced. The county authorities should appear in Hungary, no matter the name, not as formal bodies, not as a formal territorial surface. In addition to all of this, I, in line with the bill, said these few thoughts, not being taken into account. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr returns to the notary seat.]]
u2017-09-20-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask if anyone from the KDNP Group wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-09-20-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear tableds, I mean, my colleague Kovács stayed here, so it's just a presentation! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, I can also tell him that we fully agree with Minister Lazarus' exposé. I would like to stress that we agree with every word you have said within the scope of the expoze, so, by the way, I wonder if only the name of the county has been omitted from the name of the county, which he also referred to in some sense. We are very sorry that other counties do not use the possibility of this gestureal amendment, even though there would be other counties where this change of name could be done, because it was quite a double story when the name changes in 1990, that only partly could be taken back and renamed in the county names. I would like to mention one more thing about this. At the time when the district law, the construction of the walks in the House, was mentioned, yes, it also occurred to us that instead of the name of the county, the name of the county was again the name of the county, perhaps a bit archaic. This was presented by the government itself, but for some reason, he backed out of it. I'll tell you the truth, we would have supported that back then. I do not think that the use of this term in the Hungarian administration is so anachronistic now, and this would also have a message value. I also wanted to ask you whether the county crest will change in some sense. Obviously, by already appearing in the coat of arms of Csongrád county St. Gellért, the Csanád identity is also in the county coat of arms, but it would still be possible to change it. To conclude, I would just like to mention that it is perhaps worth mentioning the name of the original initiative, because I understand that this initiative is linked to the name of University Professor László Blazovich, so perhaps we should mention him here, too, by thanking him for the initiative. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-20-58	Thank you, Madam Secretary, Congresswoman. Obviously, no one on the LMP's part wants to speak, no one in the room, and so we have come to the end of the speaker's speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I ask whether the rapporteur wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács.
u2017-09-20-59	[[He shall address himself from his seat as his representative. Without sound:]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's a slight technical problem, the interpreter is completely mixed up.
u2017-09-20-60	Where's your card, Mr. Secretary? [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: He's in!]] He's in. You have a 30-minute time frame, Mr. Secretary, you're welcome to... [[Defiance.]]
u2017-09-20-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I will not take advantage of you. I'll figure it out. Maybe they don't mix. Firstly, thank you very much for what Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said. Indeed, this is an identity issue, which, by the way, referring to Nándor Gúr's words, is not important to them. National identity is not important, it has never been important to the socialists, not to mention the two-yes referendum. Local community identity creation, which is a very important Community cohesion force, may not be important either. That is why it may have been said in this way that we should rather focus on certain functional evacuations of the counties or in other ways, which, by the way, is alien to this proposal. I would like to thank Mrs Loránt Hegedűs for mentioning, in addition to us, the original initiative who raised this issue. This is a bottom-up initiative that Minister has taken up, in support of me, as responsible for the territorial administration, he has taken with him, which I thank you for. In fact, what you can see is that this issue started from local communities, and then the county assembly voted virtually not by 1 vote, with 1 abstention, almost entirely unanimously on this proposal, this initiative. So we also believe by the local community that the direction of the initiative is good. The county of Nógrád, I would like to mention, has not decided on this issue, examines how it is still examining documents and archival questions. And Pest County has made its decision. As regards Pest County, the local community did not support this, but did not support the request for it. Dear fellow Members, I would like to say that the date of entry into force, which is also symbolic, is an important issue. 4 June 2020 This date is one of Hungary's greatest traumas in both our ancestors and our souls, but the government led by the Orbán government and the Hungarian Parliament have also turned this into a day of national solidarity in recent years. This is a symbolic example of national cohesion, however, of how it can be achieved at least in this form. Minister Lazarus, my fellow Member, spoke about how counties, families, and interrelated settlements were torn apart, which is particularly present in communities in previous decades, but still with effect. It was also said that the public could never deal with it, and the so-called so-called "Chanád County," referred to by my colleague Loránt Hegedűs, was, for the time being, an administratively unified county of the city of XXXV in 1923. By law, by the way, here in connection with a fraction of the counties of Arad and Torontol. Indeed, it has been said here, and I also refer to the fact that we have many fine examples of counties with several names. Dear fellow Members, The legislative foundations of the Parliamentary resolution have been established, the opinions of local communities have been sought, and on this basis, thanking the support thoughts that are virtually identical to our thoughts, I encourage the other fellow Members, Mr László B. Nagy, who is a local force, so to say, in Csongrád county, but all fellow Members - this is a noble initiative, not because we submitted it, but because the locals initiated it - to support it in the coming period. Members of Parliament will support it with their votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2017-09-20-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[11.30]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on sanctions for administrative violations until closure. Government referral T/17313. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-20-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, An extremely important issue...
u2017-09-20-64	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. We need to adjust the card.
u2017-09-20-65	I just switched cards, I have a new card, but it's supposed to work out in my seat.
u2017-09-20-66	That's good.
u2017-09-20-67	Now it's good, and the green light is on, and I've got a green light. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-20-68	We're listening, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-20-69	Repeating the previous thought, this law on sanctions is an extremely important law. Not because we're talking about fines, but on the contrary. In this law, the government presented a proposal to Parliament, with a view to the principle of graduality and to building on civic trust as its main principle. When the State Reform Commission was set up in 2014, it set out a number of key points for it, such as cutting red tape, moving forward on reform of public services and administration, radical simplification of administrative burdens for citizens and businesses and, where appropriate, removing it, the reform of human resources. One important issue, in particular, was the restoration and strengthening of confidence between the state and citizens and businesses. There was a need to rethink the role of public administration in procedures, the relationship with customers. As I mentioned, the main purpose of this, the principle of trust, was to radically change the attitude of the authority and the client against each other, with negative assumptions. According to this, the state must assume that most Hungarian people and businesses know the law on the one hand and respect and respect the law on the other. On the other hand, it is important for customers to be aware that the aim of the application of public law is never, and cannot be, to upset citizens, to disable the functioning of organisations where appropriate, but always to enforce legislation, to enforce the law, and thus to maintain social and economic order. In order to achieve a change of approach, the public debt reduction was carried out at three paces from January 2016 with a reduction in administrative red tape. An important part of this was the prevention of delays in official procedures. We have introduced the sommy procedure, the pending decision, and we have also limited the suspension of proceedings. In this way, the duration of 120 administrative procedures decreased by 25 per cent on average. Building on the confidence in the customer's enforcement, more than 30 activities already have the intention to announce, and there is no need to go through the complicated authorisation procedure. This year, the government window network of more than 260 units has been completed, where 1500 types of cases can otherwise be launched or handled locally under civilised circumstances; 73 laws have been repealed by the Hungarian Parliament to make the legal system more transparent. Dear fellow Members, Administrative bureaucracy reduction is a task consisting of several interlinked elements. The next milestone in the creation of a simple state is the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service; it is only known to everyone that the Ket. This will have a new code of procedure, which will replace it, which is the law on general administrative order. This will enter into force in 18, the so-called Akr. Abridged. The Akr. the approach to simplifying and speeding up administrative procedures. Underlining and further developing the achievements of administrative bureaucracy reduction, the Ákr. shorter than the Ket., about a third. It does not include, inter alia, rules governing the imposition of administrative fines and the application of confiscation, currently in Ket. One of the objectives of the bill on sanctions for administrative infringements is therefore to establish a framework. It's a framework bill. During the preparation of the bill on sanctions for administrative infringements, we have explored the entire system of sanctions and the related practice of enforcement of public law. As a result of the review, it has been found that the common uniform mandatory provisions on sanctions applicable in official decisions and in the event of infringements of the provisions of sectoral legislation only exist in a narrow manner, making application of the law more difficult and unpredictable. It is therefore necessary to clarify the definitions of the administrative sanction system, to make the regulation more uniform and transparent. In order to establish a single sanction system, the bill on sanctions for administrative infringements contains provisions on the application of warnings, administrative bail, administrative fines, prohibition from carrying out activities and confiscation. However, given the diversity of social and economic conditions governed by administrative law, the bill allows the law to impose additional administrative sanctions in order to enforce sectoral specificities. It can be said that there is a framework law that we have just tabled, and that the sectoral features, which contain many specialties, cannot be regulated in general in a framework law, there gives authorisation and the possibility of sectoral specialities. During the preparation, we also wanted to enforce the concept of the principle of trust vis-à-vis the perpetrators of the infringements established in the official procedure. So the legislator's intention is to strengthen confidence between citizens and economic operators and the state, which is what I started the whole speech with. As I have already explained above, the authorities must take the view that the client's fundamental intention is to follow the law. It is not primarily the responsibility of the authority to retaliate, sanction, but to prevent further violations and restore the legal status, so as not to create disproportionate obstacles to the continued life or operation of the person who committed the administrative breach. The most important and most forward-looking appearance of this in the bill is that, in order to reduce the payment obligations on customers, the principle of so-called gradual sanctioning will be imposed within a narrower framework than is currently the case. On the basis of the principle of gradualness, the authority will examine whether the client has already committed an infringement within a defined time frame and, if not, will apply a lighter penalty. To this end, the bill establishes a register of sanctions, which is a public official register that can be accessed electronically and on this basis data relating to the determining authority and the sanction can be obtained. This also has information security and data protection requirements, which must be respected, which have been agreed during the preparation. [[The sound is starting to buzz.]]
u2017-09-20-70	Mr. Secretary. Probably need to send the phone to the hallway. The wardrobe commissioner will help you with that. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács, showing the phone: Dr. Gábor Staudt: Possibly a text message. It turns him on, too.]] Now it's stopped. My apologies. Thank you. Go on, Mr. Secretary. [[11.40]]
u2017-09-20-71	In order to establish proportionate and fair enforcement practices, a warning will be used for the first time within a year in the system of gradual sanctioning, which is the general rule. This is a matter of trust, so it is not immediately - apologies, citing - that the authority strikes the client with the sanction, but warns him, and we hope that this also has a deterrent effect. This does not otherwise create a noticeable legal disadvantage from the customer's side, and we have the hope that it will encourage a future law-abiding behaviour. It is a regulatory novelty to generalise the rule that the authority may apply a mere warning even if the law otherwise requires the imposition of a fine. The transition between the warning and the administrative fine in a gradual sanctioning system is the administrative bail. Based on domestic and international examples, this is a known issue in criminal proceedings, which increases the willingness to comply effectively, which is a procedural institution defined by the court to ensure the participation of the defendant in the proceedings. That's what we'd do in public administration. On this basis, in the official proceedings, bail is a security which triggers a fine, the benefit of which for the customer is that, in the event of a course of law enforcement, the amount of the security will be refunded. The legal institution of administrative bail is also based on the principle of trust. The effect of the breach before repeating the rule lies in the fact that the client must be aware of the risk of losing the amount of bail in the event of a future infringement. Therefore, it is a clear consequence of its application that it encourages customers to comply with the law. In the spirit of the principle of graduality, the bill transforms the practice of fines of the public authority into a compulsory examination of whether the client has committed an administrative breach within a year. Under the general rules, this will be a prerequisite for fines, so the first infringement will not have a financial disadvantage. It is further facilitated that the authority may decide if it considers it justified to provide a warning or bail instead of a fine. In addition, there are, of course, administrative violations against which it would not be fair for the State to take patience against its perpetrators, as these harsh, strong infringements result in a high level of damage to the public interest or pose a risk to them. In such cases, the warning or the application of bail would not be suitable to ensure the protection of social and economic order, but it is necessary to maintain the immediate fine. This includes administrative violations that violate or threaten human life, physical integrity, health, minors or particularly vulnerable persons. The draft sanction law ensures, in the light of EU legislation and sectoral specificities, that other laws may derogate from the application of gradual action where justified, and open the way for immediate fines. In addition to the above, the bill also enforces the gradual imposition of sanctions in respect of the amount of administrative fines: the authority may impose only half of the maximum amount in the first fine within three years. Also a concrete and clear change to reduce customer charges: the amount of the on-the-spot fine under the bill should not be higher than a quarter of the amount of the administrative fine establishing the same facts. Therefore, in terms of the amount of the administrative fine, on-the-spot recognition can be paid 75 percent less to the client to put it in such a professional manner, and it is an opportunity with sufficient motivation to recognise the breach. This is also beneficial for the authority, since it is necessary to proceed with a confession. In the context of the principle of gradual sanctioning, the bill on sanctions for administrative infringements, in addition to the sanctions already described, also provides for the application of confiscation and prohibition from carrying out activities. There has been a review of the current confiscation regime, and there has been no substantive change, so to speak. The bill on sanctions for administrative infringements also establishes a framework for disabling activities. The point is that the perpetrator of an infringement is temporarily prohibited from carrying out the activity in order to terminate the infringement and to prevent it from being repeated. This is an extremely strict sanction, but it is likely to permanently ban or cause the perpetrator to reconsider the future in order to do so again. In order to strengthen trust between the client and the authority, the Sanctions Act states that, for the first time in breach of the rules, only those who have committed serious violations of the public interest and which constitute a threat to the public interest may be prohibited. Special attention has been paid to ensuring that the prohibition from carrying out the activity does not result in a disproportionate disadvantage on the customer's side, i.e. do not make it impossible to operate. To this end, on the basis of the bill, the duration of the ban may, in principle, be 45 days. In conclusion, it can be concluded that, building on the professional concept of reforming public administration, we have developed, further developed and completed a proposal for sanctions for administrative breaches. Public administration is a priority area for the functioning of the state, so the bill will affect the entire Hungarian society, economy and public organisation system. For the establishment of a law that is professionally consistent and fair enforcement of public law vis-à-vis customers [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I request the cooperation and support of the Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-20-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to László B. Nagy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-09-20-73	Mr President, Dear House, On yesterday, Parliament discussed a package of laws in connection with the entry into force of the new Civil Procedure Act, exactly three proposals, and today the entry into force of the General Administrative Rules Act on 1 January 2018 is partly justified by the T/17313. a bill on sanctions for administrative infringements and its negotiation. As with the introduction of the provisions of the new civil order, the aim of this bill must be to ensure the smooth implementation of the procedural law and to preserve the coherence and consistency of the legal system. Transparent, easy-to-apply legislation also serves as a guarantee of our competitiveness. In addition to these criteria, the bill on sanctions for administrative infringements contains specific business-friendly provisions. In the spirit of trust between the State and citizens and businesses, the primary objective of the bill is to reduce the payment obligations on citizens and businesses, thereby limiting the scope of sanctions that create a real financial disadvantage. In order to achieve this reduction, the concept of the sanction law is based on the principle of gradual sanctioning. Given the principle of gradualness, I consider it very important that the proposal introduces the privilege of warning, its application and the introduction of an institution of administrative bail, which can be interpreted as a temporary solution between a warning and an administrative fine. It is also important to stress that bail is, by its very nature, due to a law-abiding behaviour, bail is repaid to the client. I believe that the possible repayment of the amount of administrative bail is indeed an appropriate motivation to avoid infringements, which could mean a drastic reduction in the number of administrative infringements. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the bill before us also establishes a register of administrative sanctions in order to ensure that data on the sanctions imposed previously on the client are known. As a result, administrative fines, prohibition from carrying out activities or confiscation will only be imposed in justified cases. [[11.50]] Moreover, the legislation provides an opportunity for the law to lay down previous administrative sanctions in the light of sectoral specificities. In order to remove misunderstandings, I would like to point out that the scope of this law only covers legal consequences, i.e. sanctions, which may be imposed by a substantive decision in the case of infringements of the general administrative procedure, i.e. administrative infringements, thereby fulfilling the requirements of transparency and applicability, contributing to the 21st EDF. The creation and smooth operation of Hungarian public administration in the 20th century. I therefore call for your vote to support the adoption of this proposal and thank you for listening.
u2017-09-20-74	Thank you very much, Congressman László B. Nagy. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2017-09-20-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. If I remember correctly, the relevant professional and representative organisations were consulted. I think they also refer to this in the explanatory section that the bodies have been consulted on the bill, thus, in a suffering structure; no wonder, because when it comes to reconciliation of interests, you sometimes really suffer before it, when, why, or why, you should not do so. But that is not the point of the story, but it is that the proposal is again, that, if I am well aware, it has not been published for consultation on the government website, at least I have no knowledge of it, even though I have tried to see it. If so, this is obviously a fundamental problem. In addition to what Mr Secretary of State said in his speech, there are many things that can be considered and supported, so that they can actually induce further processes that can be beneficial both for the business sector and for individuals. Of course, we must immediately add that there are more things that we are not aware of. It is no longer us, Members, but we do not know why it is so or why we cannot know about it. I'm giving you examples. For example, with the new provisions requiring data processing, I do not know if the President of the National Data Protection and Information Authority agrees. I'm sure the Secretary of State can give you an exact answer. Please, just do it. I do not know how, in the absence of knowledge of the preliminary impact assessment, the extent to which this package of measures is covered by this package, and, let us say, how and how its part of the hedge is put together. This is a partial question, but it is okay to see clearly in this regard. I see positive signs in this bill. I also think it is positive that it also eliminates the terminology problems arising from the collapsing between the infringement and the violation of the rules, in addition to the fact that I say that the Secretary of State mentioned substantive issues. But I think I'm discovering it, and I think I'm not wrong with this discovery that they didn't redeploy the legal system, they didn't do the transfer, it's still pending. I'll give you an example just to make it feel like it. For example, about rail transport - I'm not telling you exactly right now, but if my memories don't deceive me, maybe I'm under - 79. § (f) is what deals with practically the issue of warnings, and there are very different conditions here than that which is aligned or adapted to the draft law. So these transfers of legal systems should be carried out here, keeping them pending should be virtually abolished. If we look at this bill, we can say that it can be seen as such a government mood-enhancing package. Does it involve a multitude of such mood-enhancing measures? It's okay if that's the case, but it would've been nice much sooner. It would've been nice to take this kind of action a long time ago, like, seven years ago. Not before the election, half a year. The issue of sanctions, i.e. progressiveity. I think that when they talk about it and claim that sanctions are either minor or avoidable under certain conditions, and so progressive is taking place, this statement is, in a sense, constrained by the events of the past period. It is said that they do not, in a way, travel to the extent and extent of the imposition of a fine in order to increase revenue. There are experiences, tangible in many cases, which do not support this logic. There are, or should be, certain official bodies, organisations, which, where appropriate, are available as additional sources of operational conditions. Yes, it has partially ceased, but there are some that create the motivational background in this regard. For example, the imposition of a fine determines the possibility of receiving additional remuneration resources in respect of the official employee. These should also be removed, Mr Secretary of State, because these are obviously in vain, and, where appropriate, measures of good orientation should be centralised, if the formation in direct form is carried out in such a way that those who carry out tasks in the role of public authority are not interested in that, but, let us say, in the opposite. It is completely clear to me, and it is not far from me, and I can even agree that the focus must obviously be prevention. Therefore, to avoid infringements or the legal status, if I remember correctly, is to be called upon to come to life. I believe these are important criteria, so I can agree with them personally. In summary, I would like to say two things: one is that, if there are, and there are other torsos that I have mentioned, it is worth weeding out, and obviously, the motivation of colleagues working on the official surface should not be drawn at local levels, which can be matched with the highest possible level of imposing a fine. Therefore, it should be avoided that, in any sense, the imposition of a fine should also appear to imply an increase in revenue in order to enable public authorities to benefit from it. And the other thing is that it is appropriate to carry out the necessary transfers, which, as I have mentioned, do not, as an example, apply in this respect, within the framework of the Railway Act, but I could also give other examples. Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, all I'm asking is that you answer the questions you've been asked. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-20-76	Thank you very much, Mr Nándor Gúr, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-09-20-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The proposal before us indeed contains progress on a number of points. I will, of course, tell you what we think is particularly good, and there will be some critical comments that we are trying to address with amendments, and I would very much ask Mr State Secretary and the Ministry to consider these absolutely improved amendments that we will submit to the proposal. What is certainly worthy of recognition, and an old desire for law-abiding citizens not to have a punitive attitude on the part of the authorities, be they any authorities. [[12.00]] As a child, this may be true of violations, even of the Btk. I am also afraid of his facts, but there I am saying, because, obviously, in the case of a crime, of course, there may be a more mild and serious crime, crimes and crimes, but as we go from the bottom to the top of the administrative sanctions, offences and crimes, the lower one - and here I consider sanctions that can be imposed by administrative authority to be the bottom of the ladder - is even more likely to be warned by the authorities first, or not to be subject to a criminal approach, if, on the other hand, someone did not commit an act intentionally or, on the contrary, in the absence of knowledge of the legislation, the authority would rather help these people and not seek to impose a serious financial burden on them at once. This is also the case with regard to the possibility for local authorities, since local authorities can determine in some cases what administrative fines will be imposed, and it is also good for the municipalities to have a leeway, or if acting officials, regardless of their local authorities, are motivated to punish. Obviously, there may already be a more positive attitude than some local governments, in other cases it may be the punitive approach, but it is good that the National Assembly determines in a law what it expects even if administrative fines have been imposed by the municipalities and the facts giving rise to fines. As a rule, the warning is very positive and welcome in such a form. This also means, as the Secretary of State said, that, in some cases, there is nothing else to do, so it is not only an opportunity for the authority, but, in fact, if there has not been a warning before, except for a few exceptions, then there is nothing else to do, so in the case of law-abiding citizens or first stumbled citizens, the warning will be a penalty which can in principle be imposed. And like I said, it's okay, and it's a step forward. Then the introduction of administrative bail is also to be welcomed, given that it is a legal institution for which it encourages the citizen to follow the law again, so a sanction may be conditional - let us call it conditional - but if he fulfils this bail and does not commit any other offence in the future, then he can get it back after a year, and this will obviously encourage citizens not to commit any more offences or acts involving administrative sanctions. So I can also absolutely welcome this, and I trust that this will be applied by the determining authorities. Then, obviously, the institution of the administrative fine is not new, so this is what we have seen in sectoral laws, we have met in the practice of the municipalities. On the one hand, in addition to the fact that no one likes to receive a fine, there may also be a role for the municipalities - I would like to remain in this circle now - to be an effective weapon in order to enforce the expected behaviour, and if this is supplemented by the fact that it does not strike citizens first and not immediately and not in a drastic way, then it can have a role in determining what behaviour the local community expects and can properly enforce. That is another question, and here we are reaching a point that should be corrected by an amending proposal, that is to say, Article 10. Paragraph (2) of the Act provides for a ceiling, a million forints for natural persons, or ten million forints for legal persons, which, by the way, I consider to be high as a general limit, especially in comparison with the fact that in the case of infringement sanctions, the same amount is 300 thousand forints, and we can usually place infringements above administrative offences, and therefore I consider this to be a bit excessive, especially if it can be practically higher by law, so it can be higher in other sectoral laws. But what is even more worrying in this case is that this one million and ten million forints can be moved up by government decree, in which I also see a problem of law-dogmatics, Mr. Secretary of State. After all, I can accept that a sectoral law says that one million or ten million forints, although it is not low, is not sufficient, but it is a question whether it is good then, and I must even say that it is constitutional, that only a government decree can depart from this designated ceiling, and that it can be distinguished by the fact that the government decree can not set a limit upwards, so it can not push down this one million, ten million forints, but higher. I think that, if we look deeper, it might raise constitutional concerns, so we will try to clarify this with an amending proposal. The fact that this fine can be HUF 200,000 and HUF 2 million on the basis of the municipal decree, I think it's only about enough for the violations... - and we can stick to the comparison with the infringements now, but the above mentioned one million and ten million forints can be a lot, and the ten million forints - because here I was talking more about one million forints of private individuals - can hit small and medium-sized enterprises on a regular basis; even a medium-sized enterprise has a very significant item of ten million forints, a small enterprise in Hungary has a mass of single person kfts, family kfts or bt.-s, as this applies to bt.s, or other forms could be mentioned, but the point is that I also consider this to be a general limit, that in sectoral laws it is possible to deviate from this. I also have concerns about the statute of limitations, Mr Secretary of State, which is that I also feel disproportionate for the objective three years, given that the limitation period for infringements is two years. In this case, it would seem that 6 months from the authority's knowledge, but objectively 3 years from the time it could be done, and this is too long in my opinion because the client, who has been sanctioned, is having difficulty in determining when the sanctioned act has come to the attention of the authority, and in addition, he may be able to obtain the documents, but it may always occur that a record may not be verified when it was placed in a file. So it is objectively not very verifiable, it should be considered that there is a possibility to impose a sanction for three years, which is a one year longer time limit than a year of infringements, or I could say that I, frankly, do not consider it justified. So, along with these additions or the main points, I'm telling you that a step in the right direction is what they put on the table here. Of course, points could be highlighted, for example - and I would like to mention this here - I very much hope that the possibility of sanctions being imposed without warning, because in some cases it is possible to do so, will not be attempted by the various authorities and municipalities to expand it. [[12.10]] Here is a list of the cases in which this can take place. However, I have found that, in the case of municipalities and other authorities, this is sometimes tended to be interpreted a little broadly, as far as they can. In this form, the practice will decide how far they go beyond the framework given by the law and how they will try to fine immediately, impose immediate fines and practically try to avoid warning as a first penalty. But obviously this exercise will show, as I told you. If it is possible to make these amendments more proportionate and bring them closer to the infringement law, then I think it is possible to support the proposal. Especially in the light of the fact that we appreciate the fact that warning and forward-looking proposals are available here instead of a criminal approach. We would also like to see that in other laws, too, this approach is rolled forward by the Ministry or the Government, and therefore we would like to see the state for the people and the municipalities for the people, even in cases where the municipality would not do so on its own, although, of course, as I said, not all municipalities are concerned. But with a forward-looking similar regulation, you can get every local government to give up the punitive approach. Thank you very much.
u2017-09-20-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, who clearly wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Mr Zoltán Kovács has the floor.
u2017-09-20-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[The State Secretary's microphone doesn't work.]] I'm not marked, and I feel like I'm not on the microphone.
u2017-09-20-80	Check the card.
u2017-09-20-81	The card's plugged in. Looks like Murphy's law is true with me today.
u2017-09-20-82	The name of Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács is on the screen. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-09-20-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, Mr Gábor Staudt and Mr László B. Nagy, for their appreciation of the framework law. Thank you very much for the proposals that we will consider in the coming period during the discussion of the bill. As regards the consultation with the relevant organisations, this has been done, we have had a special consultation with the Data Protection Authority precisely because it is an important issue, a record of people's violations. We've come to an agreement. We considered it particularly important to coordinate with the largest municipal association, i.e. the County City Association and the notaries as professional organisations and stakeholders in this regard. In the framework law, as I started, not all sectors can be sculpted - quoted in quotes - and therefore let us leave the possibility of improving them by means of a government decree or making this possible in sectoral legislation. Social and economic life is changing so rapidly that we should always bring back the law in a major sector system, to a certain extent, where appropriate, to amend it. That is why this legal solution has been established, which is otherwise authorised by the Stability Act in such a case. Why are we bringing the law here now? The Akr. It shall enter into force on 1 January 18, so that it shall be accompanied by this sanction framework law, and it shall not be prevented by Ákr. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would also like to say here what my fellow Member Gábor Staudt referred to for HUF 1 and HUF 10 million that is currently in the Ket. So that's what we put back in this. It's the current rule. So if that's a problem, that should have been improved from your side. And five years for the statute of limitations, not three. Five. We took this off for two years, almost half, so we reduced it. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: The five are exaggerating!]] It's in the Ket now. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It's a big problem.]] Well, that's the thing. That's what we've been working on. As regards the sanctioning, it was said that it should be differentiated. I agree with that, but just yesterday the Parliament adopted, in the spirit of the fight against corruption, an item of punishment on Jobbik's proposal, which also affects the 10 thousand forints of office bribery with 12 years limitation, as well as 600 million. So it's not differential. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's different!]] As a lawyer, I say it hurts my sense of justice, but we are post-painting, it was born yesterday, we hope that its scope will be valid for the next period. My fellow Member, in this regard, I believe that our attempt to change the culture of administration and our progress in it required a certain period of time to build on confidence between citizens and the state, so that we hope that the warning will have a better effect than if we sanction these acts. Where there is a serious act, we have not changed, banned and fined it. There's still one way to do it: bail. This has been re-raised from the world of criminal law. And that is an intermediate solution that, as the sword of Damocles, hangs over the head of the delicacies. If you again commit a misdemeanor, you lose everything, and if you improve - quote - you get this money back. So it's a sanction with suspensive effect, or a return in a quote. Dear fellow Members, He also referred to the motivation of my fellow Member, Mr Gúr. I would like to say that the Prime Minister's explicit request was not to motivate the administrators in the area of fines. Therefore, it does not improve the budgetary conditions of the organisation which fines. These money goes into the central budget. So there's no motivation in that direction. Previously there were all kinds of names, such as incentive commissions at the IRS, and other, and others of this kind - to say the least - motivating factors. They're out of this system, too. It must therefore be examined objectively, with regard to the proportionality of the act and the fine. I think we have made a significant step forward in this. There is no draft budget for organisations to collect so much, because this will improve their budgetary positions, where appropriate. So motivation doesn't exist in this way. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thank you again for your supportive attitude. I think we can move forward with this. And it has to come into force with Akr, because it's the Ket. included these sanctioning parts, the new Ket. This is not included, which is why a framework is co-ordinated, together with a review of the sectoral rules. We hope that this will also happen on 1 January, and a whole new type of sanctioning system will be put in place together with the general administrative statute. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-09-20-84	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. I would like to ask the Jobbik faction if the Member applying for a statement after the agenda is here. [[György Szilágyi says no.]] No. Then with this, Honourable Parliament, I thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Thank you for your work. I'm closing the meeting. [[Meeting ended at 12:20 p.m.]]
