u2017-04-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. I'm with some MSZP representatives and I'm with #civils, and I'm wearing a badge with subtitles.]] I welcome my fellow Members with a warm welcome on this morning quoting the winter. The 16th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. Speaking before the agenda, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, notary of the National Assembly, spoke with the title of the 10 anti-knowledge actions of the Fidesz-KDNP. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The scandalous impossibility of the CEU fits perfectly into the Fidesz-KDNP administration's anti-knowledge measures. It is worth constantly recalling the most serious steps by which Viktor Orbán turned his back on the knowledge-based society, turning his back on the practice of successful Western and Northern European Scandinavian countries, turning his back on the country's sustainable development path and real long-term competitiveness. We just picked these up at ten points. The first anti-knowledge measure is the large-scale withdrawal of funds from education after 2010. It is true that these hundreds of billions have been corrected in recent years, but this is largely due to teacher wage increases. The stable functioning of schools still lacks HUF 200 billion per year and HUF 50 billion per year for the maintenance of universities and colleges. The LMP would spend much more on education, we would give 15-20 forints out of every 100 HUF budget to this area. The second anti-knowledge measure was the violent nationalisation and centralisation of schools. The municipal reservation model was an extreme solution, where all the responsibilities and burdens were passed on to the settlements earlier, but this current over-stated system is an extreme, and we fell on the other side of the horse. We represent an intermediate model, which asks for the reservation, we would return its schools, along with the necessary resources. The third anti-knowledge step is the violent transformation of the system, negliging any reconciliation or consensus-search. The Fidesz-KDNP government has made decisions and implemented its actions in the face of the entire educational profession, all the players. Even if it creates a round table, it is not looking for common points, but an initiative to share or silence actors. According to the LMP, finding common denominators in education is particularly important. The fourth anti-knowledge measure is the current plan to close small settlement schools, which László Palkovics recently spoke about. Fidesz-KDNP wants to continue the school closure policy of the MSZP-SZDSZ governments, they do not want the villages, the municipalities, to have schools, yet they only talk about closing the upper classes. According to the LMP, it means a death sentence for a settlement if education is cut off. The fifth anti-knowledge measure was to reshape vocational training. A significant proportion of public knowledge has been withdrawn from vocational schools years ago, and training time has been reduced from four to three years. Specialized high school hit last year, reducing the number of physics, chemistry, biology, geography classes. We would also ensure the possibility of obtaining a high level of general education in vocational training. The sixth anti-knowledge measure is also linked to vocational training, while the loss of knowledge also served the interests of the oligarchs. Today, some large entrepreneurs dictate and order future professionals. We believe that the long-term interests of society as a whole and the labour market as a whole should be seen. The seventh anti-knowledge measure is the cutting of high school seats. This is also the latest announcement by László Palkovics. Central admissions and central frame numbers would reduce the number of high school students. We are convinced that these are not working, that these plans must be abandoned. At present, there is no problem with the number of high school students, and this could be increased. Out of ten children, she goes to three or four high schools. The eighth anti-Knowledge measure is to reshape the framework numbers for higher education and to extend training courses for tuition. No wonder the number of higher education candidates has fallen again this year. In the past, it reached 140,000, and currently barely over 100,000 people have applied to college and college. We shouldn't close the doors to higher education, we should open it. The ninth anti-knowledge measure was a systematic occupation of universities and colleges. Chancellors and consistors can practice veto on all important issues and say no to training and research questions. We are convinced that universities should be assisted not from above, but with mutual support and partnership. Finally, the tenth anti-knowledge measure is the unsustainable wage situation. This must be changed, since this system is inoperative, and this will come out in time.
u2017-04-19-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[9.10]]
u2017-04-19-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think your speech is typical of recent opposition communication: where possible, to raise a rumor, even if it is completely contrary to government decisions, both this year and next year's, and to the experiences of the previous years, you will say so. They hope that if their electorate hears this many times, they may believe it, because they can talk about the withdrawal of educational resources, that this year there is 105 billion forints more on the institutional system of public education than it was last year, but this is not a record year, because in 2014 it was 120 billion forints more than the year before, and there is no year when the budget for public education would not be many ten billion forints higher than in the previous year. Indeed, there was a period of socialist governance, especially in the period 2008-2010, in the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gordon Bajnai, when we managed to fall above 10% of the GDP in the expenditure on education, while GDP also declined. It was the government that also reduced GDP and even the expenditure on education in proportion to GDP, but in the Fidesz-KDNP era, this is an emerging trend in recent years. I think that's good news for everyone. You can talk about withdrawal by, for example, 105 billion forints more this year. You can talk about the vulnerable financial situation of universities by reducing the debt of universities to a fraction, reducing by half and a third, and the cash reserve has increased by tens of billions forints in recent years, thanks to the new chancellor-type management system. For example, the way you talk about it is that it is increasingly difficult for young people to have access to higher education, that Community higher education training centres have been established, or that we may even call them community colleges. Higher education appears in new settlements, you can get a degree in new settlements where you couldn't have it before, and this can be done not by creating new institutions, but by installing such community higher education centres in a given settlement, so that much more young people can access higher education through the trainings of another university, the university of a larger settlement in the area. You, on the one hand, have been complaining in Parliament for months about how overburdened students are, and when in vocational training some subjects are combined into a science or science subject with a complex approach, you immediately yell at why the amount of teaching material is decreasing, why they teach students less. Just, honourable Member, it is not possible to say at the same time that students are overwhelmed, and at the time of the reduction of the load, to say that the government is directly reducing the curriculum so that students do not acquire the education that the LMP believes is necessary. Once you decide which reviews you're using, at least you can relate to something. He also left out from his list that, through dual training, young people can now gain useful knowledge, not only theoretical but also practical knowledge, as now more than a thousand students from more than 24 higher education institutions, in 6 training areas - agricultural, technical, economics, IT, social sciences, natural sciences - are already performing dual training genres in 49 different disciplines. I think it is beneficial for everyone, both future employers and students, because they have a much better job opportunity for young people. You have re-introduced small-scale schools, honourable Member. Once again, this government has reopened small-scale schools since 2010. [[Ander Balázs: Vízvár!]] [[Ander Balázs: Vízvár!]] You always say and repeat the LMP probably year after year, as you said in previous years, yes-yes, so far the government has reopened, but it will definitely close next year. (Ander Balázs: Vízvár!) Since 2010, we have heard that the government will close the school next year. It has not been possible to say this in any year in the present time, and it will not succeed as long as there is Fidesz-KDNP administration. You're always talking about it in future time, but these are the predictions that never work. It is the same with regard to the lack of consultation, honourable Member, because it says that the government does not agree widely enough on issues of public education. You know as well as I do, we have invited all the actors who are interested in public education to the public education round table, only there are those who do not come. They don't come because they don't have professional intentions, but they have political intentions, including to provide you with a reference. But, honourable Member, if we send invitations to certain organisations for every consultation and they do not come to any consultation, it is not the government's fault, but their intention, their intention, that the debate on education should take place in many areas, not on a professional basis, but on a political basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-04-19-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy applied for a speech from the MSZP Group on current matters before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[9.20]]
u2017-04-19-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When tens of thousands of people go out on the street to protest, it's worth stopping for the government and thinking about what went wrong. And if this demonstration becomes permanent, it is particularly justified. It is extremely unpleasant, I know that; if we had done this in 2006, we wouldn't be here today. If a political party starts to defect from its leading intellectual supporters, then the collapse is coming. Unfortunately, I can say that from experience. László Sólyom, István Stumpf, Tamás Mellar, last time Miklós Király and the others, and you can be sure that if you show such an attitude, the line is far from over. If a party tries to silence academic teachers who criticize and threaten students in the event of hearing these thoughts through their commissaries, the end will be failure or an open dictatorship. What do you want, my fellow members of the government? What we mean is that regimes that are run by you always get in the way of thinking people. The PISA surveys show drastic deterioration in the performance of Hungarian students, indicating the failure of their education system. However, in the light of the past period, I am no longer so sure that this is a failure for you - it may be your success. After the past few weeks, the government has been trying to create a demented, detachable, flocklike society, in which their own ideology has been well burned. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] Who in a democratic state has seen a school history textbook praising the active political aspirations of an incumbent prime minister? Despite all the well-meaning efforts of teachers, this educational system encodes failed results. And how does it come to CEU and civilians? Once we're done with the basics, we're ready for the upper level. Who needs a university whose spirituality differs from that of the government? All we've seen so far is open, unmasked and outrageous discrimination. At the cost of dissipating other universities, they added their own, the NKE, with money, monopolies, opportunities and legislative instruments. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] Now they've changed degrees: they're starting to destroy their own deviant think tanks. The natural part of this process is to break down, pursue, destroy dissidents, the murderers of their propaganda, make them look like scapegoats, enemies. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame and shame!]] Especially if they commit the misdemeanor that they are not doing this alone, but are organized in groups, perhaps in order to achieve the goals. It's called organization, you know, government-critical civilians. Which small, large or pocket Putin needs a critical mass of people who do not serve the regime? Who needs critical civilians? Well, on a good puppy pattern, the government has already established its own NER conformations, which do not even allow themselves to make a critical remark about the system. For example, there is the COF, the Point of View, or the Centre for Fundamental Rights, full of decent, Christian-conservative, respectable people. I've never even read a mild government review from them. Why do we need the Helsinki Committee, Transparency International or TASZ, but slowly even a century's end? ! Civil control is the basis for democracy. However, the Putini-type civilians are at most capable of maintaining democratic sets, but they are not good for anything, they are part of the state propaganda machine, nothing more than that. There is no man in this country who believes you that the bill on the agenda today is about creating transparency for civil society organisations. At the most, their friends of principle are pleased with the real intention, and the majority are outraged about it. Well, they'll do what they do. Call it in his name. I know that some people believe in dictatorships, or Eastern-type autocracies, but only then can they accept this. Have some balls, fellow Members. Stand up to the fact that, yes, that's what we really want. At least Putin's guys are willing to do this. Do as you're told. It's not a sneaky, sloppy way to create something like this. Oh, that society doesn't like that? Then I ask why they do things that society doesn't like. If they do, they'll take the ode of it. How much longer are we gonna go on this puppy road? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-19-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You criticised several institutions in your speech. I wouldn't respond one by one, but I would advise you to investigate, for example, the case of the University of Public Service, who your fellow parties have been teaching or teaching or going there, are studying there. You can't think too highly of their work or their activities. Honourable Congressman, Listening to his speech, we may agree on one thing, and this is that the government is being attacked more intensively, but in the root causes of this we do not agree at all, because the blind can see that what is going on in Hungary today is a well-designed campaign rehearsal, and in this context they are really attacking the government, the family support system, the tax policy, the energy investment, but ultimately the biggest, sharpest debate is still on immigration. And among those who attack the government, whether domestic or foreign, there is one thing in common, namely that they are pro-immigration. That's the main question. Honourable Congressman, What I am talking about is a good symbol of a demonstration in Röszke, a few days ago, organized by activists who themselves do not hide the fact that they want to bring Hungary and the government to their knees in the first place on the issue of immigration. If you listened to the reports, you could scratch your head for a long time: there were those who apologized to illegal immigrants for the actions of the Hungarians, who demanded the release of a convicted immigrant who had broken down by stone to police officers, and not least the protesters called for the breakdown of the legal border closure, and all of this under the.Refugees Welcome. You could tell me, Congressman, what the MSZP has to do with what you have to do with all of this. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And what does my speech have to do with it?]] Well, the fact that their party president, their former party president, said in an eerie similar language to English that the opposition parties of course stand by George Soros. So they sympathize with the man who supported immigration-promoting movements and organisations with a large amount of money. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: He gave you money! It would never have happened without the support of Fidesz Soros!]] Well, that is one more reason, honourable Member, for there to be even more transparency on organisations funded from abroad. This issue will also be put on the agenda by this House today. Moreover, this effort is justified only because it is the same organisations that are suing the Hungarian state, saying that it is not humane enough for illegal immigrants. The compensation awarded will be paid by taxpayers, while activist groups will be able to pocket millions of dollars at the cost of litigation. This is intriguingly inventive, honourable Member, but the problem is, among other things, that Hungarian families have to raise the necessary money for this. Honourable Congressman, In addition, foreign pressure is becoming increasingly serious. A sign of this is the European Parliament report, which continues to force resettlement programmes, which would facilitate family reunification and expand the category of refugees. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Have you noticed that I haven't said a word about migration?]] If you are yelling, I would first of all suggest that you check which of these resolutions, because your representatives voted in favour of this in the European Parliament. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The same arises as yesterday in the case of the LMP: two cases are possible, or they do not know what MSZP Members are doing in the European Parliament, or they know very well, and they want to hide what they are doing from Hungarian citizens. Honourable Congressman, Whatever the pressure on the government, the cabinet will stand up for national independence. You have the right to ask the question of a citizen who wants to stop illegal immigration, who wants to control taxes in Hungary, or who wants to control electricity prices in Hungary, what he can do. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: When will you answer?]] Our answer is to take part in the national consultation and prove together that the voice of Hungarians on the ground of common sense can be heard further than that of groups funded from abroad and parties pulled by billionaires. Honourable Congressman, I read on one of the Internet portals this morning that left-wing parties had a therapeutic discussion about the state of the left. There it was also said that voters are not interested in politics, and that is why the left is not popular. You are wrong, because the voters have not asked for you in recent times because they have defied their will in the decisive cases. Honourable Congressman, In any case, the outcome of the elections will be decided by the electorate. But if they remain on this track, their current policy will not be without consequences in 2018. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Too bad you didn't answer.]] [[9.30]]
u2017-04-19-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A war on the side of the road from the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-9	Mr President, Dear House, This is the third speech before the third agenda today, but my hopes for meaningful, constructive and appropriate government responses seem to evaporate. The tens and hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials behind us obviously still need to hope that we can get some kind of meaningful reaction to their problem. After all, we see that there are over 140,000 unrepayable families, we know of so many contracts, about the people behind them, about family members; many of them are unable to repay without their own faults. We also need to see that the MNB's summary, which has seen the light of the day in recent weeks, is alarming in that when a bank sat down with a victim, where appropriate, to restructure the so-called loan, or to make it eligible, can be repaid, only 6 percent of the foreign exchange users could agree on this. Obviously, the inability of very troubled families to agree is not the reason why these contracts cannot be renegotiated. But what we need to see is that at the moment, the home of some 60 thousand mortgage families is at risk, and the only reason why there are no more executions or evictions is because executives simply do not dump more real estate on the market at the moment and do not initiate any more similar procedures. But it is not because of the government's quota-like solution that only these people are put on the streets. I have to add, they evacuate outrageously many people's properties, there are outrageously many evictions, especially during the regency of a government that put them on billboards to account for the banks, and which simply refuses to talk about such a problem, outline meaningful solutions. A foreign currency rescue package is already outlined against you in Poland. It is interesting that it was not just part of the campaign, but that it was able to produce real, tangible, meaningful results. With a noble simplicity, the idea is that all the exchange rate gap and interest costs that many consider to be unduly charged should be paid by the banks concerned. They will, of course, also receive assistance from the supervisory authorities, and receive central bank assistance, which is unimaginable in Hungary. After all, not only did our government make a deal with the EBRD with regard to not putting additional burdens on the banks concerned in order to help the victims, but it also made a deal with the Banking Association. But in order not to say that it's just accusations, Mr. Secretary, let's see what's happening. The construction of the so-called exchange barrier, although I never considered it a permanent solution, meant a kind of air, relief, extension for more than 100,000 families. So what may be a temporary aid should not be discussed; we did not dispute it at the same time. At the same time, the five-year terms that will result in differences in collection accounts falling on injured families at the same time will expire, and if an increase in early market estimates of up to 15 percent will occur, the result is that the number of families unable to repay will be measured in another tens of thousands. With this, Mr. State Secretary, you, too, are contributing to the further desiccation of the Hungarian economy, as they are generating families from active tax-paying families that need social transfers. These people, besides their own fault, are in such a situation through market practices that should not have been allowed in a fair national economy, whether it is the governance of the social liberal era or yours. So the responsibility is now common, we can talk about the past eight years slowly double, but still not the solution. We also see that when Jobbik comes up with a proposal that the sums collected on the collection account should be swallowed up by the damage banks, so they rewrite their own laws, if you like, they couldn't get a meaningful reaction out of you. So, Secretary of State, I am asking you now whether you will accept Jobbik's proposal to help these 170,000 affected families in so far as we do not recognise the legitimacy of these alleged debts, but at least do not bring any more burden upon them on these collection accounts. So don't cause a situation where tens of thousands of families are once again in an insufferable position and, if necessary, to be evicted. Obviously, a long-term solution can only be achieved by a new accounting law, forging loans at the rate of admission. But it's obvious that you're not willing to do this, that you're not thinking about this kind of solution to Jobbik until the election. At least achieve this temporary facilitation, since it is inconvenient to have executives and otherwise financial hyenas and respect for the exception, but in many cases it is up to them to evict only, so many families in Hungary. I didn't put it that way, I quoted it. For me, too, what is happening in this market is an outrage, because it is not a classic market, it is people. No Hungarian family could become as disorganized as you allow it to become. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-19-11	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I may, I would also like to address the problem itself at the beginning of my answer in five minutes. In 2010, when the government changed, the Fidesz-KDNP government faced what a social tragedy, a series of problems, and the tragedy of families await the government's solution. In the previous cycle, the MSZP government drove the Hungarian families into it. [[Intervention in the ranks of the MSZP: Járai Zsigmond.]] To take on loans and foreign exchange loans carelessly and irresponsiblely, without warning of their dangers. Recognizing this, the government has taken several steps to resolve the problem. First, he stopped lending to the foreign currency mortgage and then sought a solution that was appropriate for both legal and fiscal, financial and social justice. Legally, that meant finding a solution that didn't mean tens of thousands of lawsuits, hundreds of thousands of lawsuits, we didn't drive families to go to court for their justice. This solution was helped by the Curia's decision in 2014. However, the Court of Justice of the European Union also had to wait for a resolution. The financial and budgetary solution meant that the budget could not be burdened disproportionately, since Hungary has 10 million citizens. For those who are in such a situation, a disproportionate public budget transfer of public funds against them would certainly have been unfair. And justice meant that it was primarily those who had to bear the burden, and against your claim that the Hungarian banks, who were in fact the beneficial owners of this currency loan, had to do so. About 750 billion forints were credited on the basis of a court ruling, 2.1 million letters were sent out to people for unfair interest and exchange rate settlements. So the banks had to hold a significant part of the account. The problem has been solved. Today there is no foreign currency credit problem in Hungary. It is natural, however, that its final liquidation and final settlement takes a long time, since it involves 2 million contracts and millions of families. The first step, when we didn't know what a legal solution was going to be, was an institution of the exchange rate barrier. Approximately 170,000 people entered into it then. The essence of this was that at a fixed price of HUF 180, these people began to repay their loans. They knew in advance how much they would pay for 5 years, but they also knew that after 5 years, the difference in the exchange rate would be on a collector's account, and they would have to settle it someday. However, it is not true that the collection account has accumulated significant amounts, since 85 percent of the 170 thousand debtors no longer have a collection account, their balance is zero. This was because, on the basis of the law adopted in 2014, the banks repaid their profits from the above-mentioned unfair accounts and thus the amounts in the collection account were described as zero. Indeed, 15 percent remained, but this 15 percent could not pay the basic repayment either, the 180 HUF repayment. But it's not 170,000 people, it's 15,000 people in total. It is also true that exchange barriers received an interest rate discount of some HUF 50 billion from the state and the banks, which meant an average discount of HUF 294 thousand per client. [[9.40]] So, first of all, those who are now in a situation where they have to pay back their currency loans over a period of five years at 180 forints. They got air, they could think about it. During the five years, no decision has been taken as to how they will settle their debt after that. This problem is indeed a real problem for the 15 000 families mentioned, but it is already small compared to the overall social problem. That doesn't mean they don't have to deal with their problems. I think that the government has given an appropriate response to the overall social problem, including the problem of exchange barriers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-19-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Group, submitted a speech before the agenda entitled "Hungarian History" in April. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's an interesting month in April: it's volatile and moody as youth. And many claim that youth is always liberal at first. Yet, there is now a strange pinpoint that on one of the Molinos of the anti-government protests, which were once again fashioned, and even with a small ambition, called the "government changer," was the name of the young people in April. This was a striking and telling blow to the face of Hungarian history there and then. This is not the case in Hungary today, and it was even different than it was in 1848. At that time, the revolution and the acquisition of freedoms were part of the reform process of a multi-annual reform movement with a large social base, with a Hungarian spirit and wisely for predefined purposes, which led to the adoption of professionally developed April laws with Parliament and the king. After the defeat of the freedom fight, passive resistance lasting 18 years and paralyzing the Austrian administration achieved its goal, a compromise was reached 150 years ago. The Hungarian has never been more persistent and consistent before and ever since. The fruitage of this was enjoyed until the happy times of peace until 1914. That's not the case today. There is no visible social, legal basis for the wishes of today's storms. The Hungarian spirit is also missing. Wisely, pre-arranged goals are not found in the gaps of so-called government overthrowrs. They don't accept any other authority or authority over you. Their current street manifestations are the destruction of public property, the chanting of their empty slogans and their childish behavior that mocks the memory of the greats of our Hungarian history do not show any value. In fact, I must apologize to them now, because they may still be familiar with the concept of history, but they can hardly interpret the Hungarian word, even less Christianity. As in the Advent of 2014, so in the days of the Great Week, the holy time of the festive preparation of Hungarian Christians was interrupted. For it is not sacred to them, what is a thousand years of Hungarians, and the Christ-believers have been their greatest feast in the world for 2 thousand years, nor Easter. In the cultural circle where they were socialized, there is no point in talking about values, faith, family and nation, because their master is only interested in anarchy, in the entire European anarchy, which he wants to achieve from country to country, so that he can destroy European culture by installing millions of illegal migrants. The events of the streets of Budapest are also part of this plan. For a hundred years, since the first Bolshevik dictatorship, there has not been a new one during the Hungarian day, but they always want to achieve the same goal under different conditions and other means. They have tried this several times since 2010, but have failed. Now the time has come to overthrow the legitimate Hungarian democratic government because of the interpretation of foreign universities. However, the government is in place and will remain in place until the next democratic elections, and we hope that it will continue, because there is democracy in Hungary. However, it is also true that equality of law seems to be discrimination if you are accustomed to unfair advantages and priority treatment. For them, double standards are natural. Tolerance is interpreted as one-way, only they must be tolerated, they have no such obligation to another. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] And our Christian-inspired Fundamental Law is like salt in a wound to them. He cries out such a dictatorship, although he has no idea what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, What if it were a dictatorship, there would be no democratic elections every four years; opposition parties would be banned, there would be no opposition press, there would be no free press at all? [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: There are no free press now!]] If more than three people were gathered on the street, would the police immediately beat up and nail them, blackmail their families, and eliminate the heat storms at night? Honourable government failures, aren't you familiar with this method of spiritual ancestors? The truly young man of April, the spiritual victim of the communist dictatorship, Sándor Márai, born on 11 April, writes: "Every detail must be known because we do not know which is important when a word shines behind things. So, April or no April, it is regrettable that there is no viable opposition potential government change force in Hungary, but it is not our fault that we government parties are responsible for this. The left is, by its very nature, like this. They haven't been able to win democratically by cheating, punching, inciting. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Cheating? Who changed the electoral law?]] With destruction and weapons. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They don't have guns. God save Hungary from them! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the same place: That's right!]]
u2017-04-19-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bernadett Szél and István Ikotity place a small black card on the table of all government representatives and ministers, with the following subtitles: I am a foreign-funded politician.]]
u2017-04-19-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House,
u2017-04-19-16	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Don't do it. She uses an unannounced illustration when handing out these cards. I will inform the Speaker of this by letter. [[Noise. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Thank you very much. You may proceed now, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-19-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President... [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2017-04-19-18	Please restore the Secretary of State's time. We'll wait until... [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Secretary of State, you may proceed.
u2017-04-19-19	Thank you very much. I will try to start, although while the head of the group is passing out her confession to my fellow Members, it may be half distracting, but allow me to quote you a party president in connection with the protests. He said this party president after a street forum about the protest of young people, that self-serving anger, self-serving street stuff is nothing, but it doesn't make any sense. That's what Gyula Molnár, president of the Hungarian Socialist Party, said about the series of protests that emerged. It seems that the party interests are important to Gyula Molnár. It seems to Gyula Molnár that it is only about party interests; he despises anyone, he despises anyone, he can say that it is nothing, but there is no point in this series of protests. That's what Gyula Molnár said. But the former president of the Hungarian Socialist Party, Ildikó Lendvai, is also quite clear [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He said that the Hungarian Socialist Party was completely behind György Soros. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Protesters are not self-serving either! The goal of self-serving is to change the government! Interview from the benches of the MSZP: I think, Bence, sit down.]] I think he's been talking about the last 27 years of the Hungarian Socialist Party... [[Grumbles and interrogations from the benches of the MSZP: Liar! Gábor István Bellozó: Christian man does not lie!]] I think so. [[Gábor István Bellozó: The Fidesz should be removed from Parliament because it betrays the country! Moraj from the benches of the governing parties.]] It's kind of...
u2017-04-19-20	Congressman, why do you want to be banned from doing the following things? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Feel free to do whatever you want.]] You can't vote, you have to participate there, but then... So I'm asking you to be quiet. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, you're Putin's men, you're agents one by one!]] Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-19-21	Thank you very much. It seems that the Hungarian Socialist Party does not like to listen to the sentences of its own party presidents. That's half understandable. [[István Gábor Bellozó: We don't love you because you're lying! You're lying, we don't like that!]] Besides, socialist party presidents tend to lose a lot of weight in the MSZP. So Ildikó Lendvai said that the Socialists are completely behind György Soros, and this is clearly their most important case in this cycle. Everyone can decide who they represent and what the most important question is. The Hungarian Socialist Party could have had a number of focal points in the past, could have talked about nurses, schools, social situation, but the most important issue was the person of George Soros. It seems that this one billionaire person is more important to them than the Hungarian voters, and it is more important for them to line up behind György Soros than behind any other value than behind any other goal. György Soros became the most important in the politics of the Hungarian Socialist Party. This is the case when the most important thing for a left-wing party is a billionaire. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Aren't you sinking? Who was learning with Soros money?- Intercom from the benches of MSZP: Bence, who was learning with Soros money? The president's ringing the bell.]] No wonder, I mean, anytime... [[9.50]]
u2017-04-19-22	Congressman Tamás Bellozó, I warn you. And I'm warning the other Congressman Bellozó! [[Dr. László Kács: His name is Gábor. Interview in the lines of the MSZP: Complete family warning!]] Looks like it's a family tradition to yell at me like that. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Would you please be quiet for a moment?
u2017-04-19-23	I am patient, ladies and gentlemen of the House. So it is no wonder that the Socialist Party is best placed behind a billionaire, because when it had the opportunity to give Hungary a Prime Minister, it gave the country only a billionaire Prime Minister, we can think of Péter Medgyessy, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and we can think of Gordon Bajnai [[Dr. László Kács: It's good that you're such a puritan now!]] And when a political matter had to be chosen, they chose no other case than the representation of an international billionaire's billionaire case and entered the Soros scenario, volunteered to be a chess piece on George Soros's chess board, and assisted to conduct a campaign rehearsal here [[Dr. László Szakács: Will there be an alumni reunion at the So.]] A main test, which has already been tried in many other countries, and has been so much brought to the attention of the international public that you know, honourable Members, that although I do not know how you would behave in the U.S. Congress, several Members, Chris Smith and other Members have brought to Congressional Committees those persons, first of all ambassadors, who were supposed not to be in the interests of the United States of America, but to have organised protests on behalf of George Soros in the interests of the US, organised demonstrations and motivated before elections in certain countries, not to benefit the country, but to create a political environment favourable to the various capital speculations of George Soros, honourable Members. You can yell there, of course, they can yell at American House Members, U.S. senators, they can say it's fiction, they can say it's an invention, but it's just about this at the U.S. Parliament, the American House of Representatives and the Senate on their agenda. They've been talking. [[Dr. László Kács: How many rubles is a dollar?]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, It is clear that this series of demonstrations is only a side-field of the Soros University, the main field of war is a question of immigration. For us, national affairs are important [[Dr. László Kács: And the ruble!]] the interests of the Hungarian people, the interest of the Hungarian people. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Interviews in the lines of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] On the other hand, there is an idea of globalisation that also seeks to use immigration for its purposes. We consider national interests to be important, not the service of globalisation, and who can decide which side they stand on as a political force. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Richárd Hörcsik, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In these days, my fellow countrymen will receive a questionnaire for the national consultation, the first question of which is: should we insist on establishing Hungarian energy prices in Hungary, or, on the contrary, should we adopt Brussels's plan and leave it to large companies to set the fees? [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I know that there may still be some uncertainty about the importance of the answer, and they ask if it is of any weight, especially if you are listening to a socialist MEP, Zsolt Molnár, who believes that the consultation is about false questions. And István Ujhelyi, a European socialist Member, claims that they have nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these allegations are most strongly disproved, and I could say that even doubters are sobered up by the draft directive of the European Commission, which presents us with ideas on the electricity market, because yesterday's Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs examined this package of measures, which has a very sound, pleasing title: . Clean energy for all Europeans! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Who wouldn't agree with that at first? But when we take a closer look at the suggestions, it soon turns out that these fine - ringing titles are unfortunately extremely misleading. It turned out, ladies and gentlemen, that these Brussels proposals would put domestic consumers, families, in a difficult situation when they banned the possibility of state price setting in the field of electricity. So, for now, only electricity is on the agenda. So it is nothing else, my fellow Members, but that Brussels would only apply market aspects in the field of electricity and exclusively. What difference does it make? - anyone could ask, since we live in a market economy in the European Union. I think it doesn't matter. Because if someone takes the time to look into it, honourable Members, you can see that market-based price setting has always led to an increase in energy prices. In those Member States where there is a state price setting, such as Hungary, energy prices and the burden on the population do decrease. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to give in to Brussels, that would mean that we should abolish the reduction of the rent in five years' time at the latest. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we cannot allow the European Commission in Brussels to increase the burden of Hungarian families by means of drafts hiding behind well-sounding titles. There is no need to regulate the price of electricity at EU level, because the interests of domestic consumers will not be protected by the duo made up of large energy companies and Brussels, but by us, the Hungarian Parliament and the government. We cannot allow Brussels to deprive Member States of their existing right to enforce the interests of its own consumers. In addition, it is possible to do so in the framework of the Treaties. We cannot stand by and watch the European Commission's new stealth legislation either in Parliament or at home. Brussels' efforts do threaten the results of the so far reduction of the Hungarian government's rent. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, our Commission stated that this draft directive violates subsidiarity, the principle of national self-determination in Hungarian, as did the two houses of the German Parliament, for example. Therefore, let us show them a yellow card, my fellow Members, to the European Commission. [[He's showing me a yellow sheet of paper. Public announcements in the lines of the MSZP, including: Demonszárat! Illustrations! 50,000! Did you call it in?]] It has been found that the European Commission intends to transfer the right to decide at the expense of the Member States and national competences. This would clearly result in the Hungarian people being once again exposed to foreign energy suppliers, as it was before 2010. By the way, at yesterday's committee meeting, the left was once again on the side of Brussels, the multinationals, because they were the only ones who did not vote in favour of our proposal, which will be on the table in this House this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why it is important to complete the national consultation so that we stop Brussels together and show the Commission a yellow card. [[He's showing up again a yellow sheet of paper. Dr. Gábor Staudt: 50,000!]] Thank you for listening.
u2017-04-19-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-19-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. László Kács: I wouldn't be in Hörcsik's shoes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Indeed, the European Commission published a clean energy for all Europeans on 30 November 2016! This package was a promising start, setting encouraging goals based on the Energy Union document. Its aim is to integrate renewable sources in terms of renewable energy use and to provide the necessary legislative framework for the development of a flexible, consumer-oriented, competitive internal energy market. These are, so to speak, the fine principles, but if we look at and the government looked at the underlying content of this package, it came to the conclusion that, indeed, a stealthy piece of legislation violates the principles of sovereignty and proportionality of the proposal submitted. Among other things, it limits the Member States' right to define their energy mix and proposes to withdraw powers by setting up regional operating centres. [[10.00]] But what is most painful for us, most of all, is that it proposes to abolish the regulated price system in the field of electricity. This step is a serious violation of our sovereignty, because in Hungary, using the regulated price, we have managed to eliminate the consequences of market prices in other countries. What are these consequences? In countries in the European Union where the so-called market price was used instead of a regulated price, energy prices increased on average by 20-25 percent between 2010 and 15. On the other hand, both gas and electricity prices have decreased in Hungary, but not only in Hungary, but in other EU countries where regulated prices are applied, energy prices have decreased. I believe that this is an excellent example and the facts show that it is true that the market price used instead of regulated prices does not lead to price reductions but to price increases. In addition, the European Union, that is Brussels, does not take into account the differences that Member States have. In general, it can be said that income conditions in the Eastern European countries are worse than income relations in the former founding countries. For example, 70 percent of European income is generated by the incomes of Eastern European countries, while the share of energy expenditure is spent, i.e. the share of energy spent on households' total expenditure is 40 percent. This is also an important item, which means that there is a reason and a justified reason to protect the reduction of the rent and to protect the state that is in Hungary today that we provide energy to the residents at a regulated price. This regulated price also results in lower inflation in Hungary, contributing to the growth of real earnings and contributing to the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. If we look at all of this, we must say, and the position of the government in this regard, that we must protect these values and not allow Brussels in the area of stealth legislation, and that we do not have to allow it to create a system of prices and energy serving multinational interests by breaking down our fundamental values, traditions and energy systems. Hungary has an interest in achieving the EU's energy targets, but it is also interested in taking national interests into account and not distracting national competences, but in continuing to pursue the path that is absolutely necessary for economic development in the field of energy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The International Convention for the Carriage of Rail, dated 9 May 1980, takes place in Bern. Annexes 1 to 4 to the Protocol of 29 and 30 September 2015 adopted in Bern in Vilnius amending the text of the Protocol of 3 June 1999 concerning the publication of decisions of T/14661 concerning the amendment of the Convention and its Appendices D, F and G Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/14661/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of them on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14661. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 176 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/14682 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14682. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 122 votes in favour, 29 against and 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that T/14241. on the transfer of certain state-owned properties to the Reformed Church in Hungary. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/14241/5. T/14241/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 5 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14241/5. Point requiring a qualified majority in its summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted 144 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/14241/5. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 144 votes to 33, without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. Please note that T/14241/7. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14241/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 144 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/14241/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 144 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstention. [[10.10]] Next up, ladies and gentlemen, is T/14680, on the amendment of certain domestic laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/14680/6 and T/14680/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present need to vote in favour in order to maintain the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The MSZP Group proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present need to vote in favour in order to maintain the proposed amendment. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/14680/6 of the Fidesz Group. A separate vote was initiated on points 5, 17 and 19 of the proposed amendment. First, we decide on the parts of the summary amendment that require a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. Accordingly, we are now deciding on the parts of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/14680/6. The majority of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 148 votes in favour, 34 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on points 5, 17 and 19 of the summarised amendment proposal for a separate vote. In view of these contexts, we decide together. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 5, 17 and 19 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the amendment points by 5 votes in favour, 150 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/14680/6. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 147 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the amended bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/14680 will accept it. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 143 votes in favour, 33 against and 4 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/14680 will accept it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 144 votes in favour, 30 against and four abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by Gábor Vona, Jobbik and his fellow Members on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code to protect public money, T/14185. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Some Members leave the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the bill on transparency of organisations supported from abroad will follow up until closure. The submission submitted by Gergely Gulyás, Lajos Kósa, István Németh Szilárd and István Vitányi, our Fidesze colleagues T/14967. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as a matter of nationality and EU agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Gulyás, Vice-President of the Parliament, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor. The time frame is 30 minutes. [[10.20]]
u2017-04-19-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that despite the generally aroused hysteria, it is a very simple bill, so I assure you that I will not use the 30 minutes in full. [[Noise. Interviews from the opposition benches, including: Shame on you!]] This law is a law of transparency, and it enforces nothing other than the principle which the Hungarian constitution, and in particular the opposition parties at all, would like to enforce and take account of. We would like to see, as in the case of public funds, all data relating to the payment of public costs, budget support, as well as public information on the subsidies granted to civil society organisations from abroad. If a person received more than HUF 7.2 million of funding, this would be twice the amount laid down in the Money Laundering Act, then a commitment would be associated with the obligation to register in court for all the organisations concerned once a year. In addition, this does not mean any stigma, it means fixing a fact. Anyone who believes that it is positive that if an organisation deserves support from abroad, this is a positive fact, if one considers it negative, it can be classified as a negative. Using the general freedom of expression, you can determine who receives support from whom, from whom, from whom. In the debates of Hungarian public life, we have seen many times in recent years that some people accuse others of receiving subsidies from Russia. We are aware that some of the reports do indeed reveal what kind of foreign subsidies are being granted, and I would add that in the midst of the debates over the last few years, there has been and may have been some significance in terms of transparency as to who receives, why and what kind of subsidies. But everyone can draw the resulting conclusions on their own. The principle that we want to enforce is only a transparency principle, that these data cannot be hidden. With regard to the rules on support, I would like to state that the pointless debates of Hungarian public life include the question of whether or not these data are available today. It is clear from the legislation that what is known and what is not. Therefore, it is worth treating this as a purely legal issue. Any person who is subject to double-booking today must be indicated separately, so in the case of social organisations subject to double-booking, all donors can be heard from the report. In the case of social organisations that are not subject to double-booking, there is no such detailed disclosure obligation. Therefore, in the absence of this, it is not true that all the donors are known. I would add, however, that this only confirms that the provision of any additional information to anyone who is still subject to double accounting is not required by this legislation, which means registration in court. I would also like to make it clear that this proposal does not, in any sense, follow a Russian pattern, there is no penalty for foreign aid, we do not consider that Russia's practice in relation to civil society organisations should be followed in any sense, nor is it the state and social arrangement. There are many similar laws in the world. Many have referred to the U.S. FARA law. It is undoubtedly true that only lobby organisations are included in the scope of the U.S. FALA law for organisations. I would add that, by the way, those who regularly express their critical or supportive views on the legislative proposals are likely to be lobbying. But there, however, this involves strict restrictions and sanctions. The Hungarian law does not know this, and the Hungarian law does not in any way classify the fact that a person receives support from abroad, and anyone can consider this to be a recognition, but the fact that a person is involved in Hungarian political and public debates as a supported organisation from abroad must be made public. I would add that this is not just our opinion, but this issue is also on the agenda in the European Union. We can see that events that have occurred in recent months that are noteworthy from the point of view of the bill. For example, on 27 March the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control discussed the proposal put forward by a German MEP, Markus Pieper. The proposal concerns the European Union's reduction of funding to civil society organisations campaigning for objectives that are contrary to the fundamental values of the European Union. In addition, MEPs would consider it necessary to ensure greater transparency for such organisations than is currently the case. The left-wing and liberal-supported European Parliament proposal would oblige civil society organisations, think tanks and professional organisations to publish in the European Union's transparency register who their financial supporters are. However, if we look at the practice in each Member State, we can also say that, for example, the Attorney General of Catania has proposed the opening of an investigation against NGOs assisting migrants, because migrants should be returned to the nearest port, i.e. to the North African coasts, but instead, the civilians mentioned, according to the Attorney General, take them to Italy. According to the December report by Frontex, the European Union's Joint Border Protection Body, which all political forces consider to be important, regardless of political differences, the activities of some charitable organisations operating in the Mediterranean are of concern because there is evidence - I quote the report of Frontex - that criminal circles are smuggling migrants directly onto NGOs' ships. According to the document, migrants were given the route in advance to find the ships of these organisations for sure. In Ireland, a law was also adopted in 2009 to improve the transparency of all charitable organisations and to prevent fraud. Transparency is, of course, also important for the fight against money laundering, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the opposition is pointing out in this respect, because we have discussed a lot of things with each other in the course of the adoption of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, but no one has contested that the new Fundamental Law provides a much wider understanding of the transparency of public funds and the availability of public data, and ultimately gives us the opportunity to enforce these data by law than the former Hungarian Constitution. Today, this opportunity is also largely exploited by the relevant NGOs, which are also supported from abroad, and they enjoy the benefits of it. We agree that the subsidies granted by the State are public information of public interest. In the same way, of course, in relation to organisations who participate in Hungarian public life through state aid or even indirect state aid, these data are well-known and otherwise widely discussed in the media. Similarly, it is appropriate and appropriate to enforce the transparency requirement for organisations financed from abroad. I would also like to emphasise that, therefore, we see no negative side in receiving support from abroad. Clarity of the fact is a transparency criterion. Those who support transparency, we believe, with common sense, cannot contradict this regulation, but there is no stigma. A stigma cannot be more than a political opinion, and I see that there is a tendency among the opposition to political opinions on this type of stigma. [[10.30]] This is part of the freedom of expression, but this law does not record any stigma, it merely seeks to record a fact. We also see that there are organisations for which the distinction is justified and that the proposed bill is indeed intended for parliamentary debate; we do not think that, if the proposal is adopted, the final form of the bill should be the same in everything. We also consider it justified that there should be no difference in the amount of money coming from the European Union, depending on whether the aid is, by the way, carried out through a budgetary body, i.e. a Hungarian budgetary body, or independent of a budgetary body, so that the European Union is managed in a uniform manner and, given that the European Union is not considered to be part of foreign policy, even the total exemption from the scope of the law is justified. The question was also raised as to whether it is worth applying the law to ethnic organisations, stressing that we would not consider this to be offensive either, since we do not see any negative stigmatizing character or intention behind the wording and letter of the bill. We would like to add that, given that support from abroad is natural for a national minority organisation because of its existence, it is worth considering the proposal already made orally by the committee of nationalities to exempt them from this circle. And there is a debate, which is not, by the way, a debate within the governing parties, whether there is any need for any exception for charitable organisations. However, in general, our opinion on the exceptions is that, since there is no negative one, it is merely the intention to fix the fact behind the bill, and therefore the argument that anyone should be exempt from this obligation because of any stigma should not be accepted on our part. I would like to stress that the bill contains sanctions only in the event of non-registration, so it is not true that any negative legal consequences would be attached to foreign aid. I would add that this would not be in line with the Hungarian Constitution. Finally, I would also like to make it clear that, of course, in view of the daily political struggles, we also see the hysteria that arose in connection with this bill. It is likely that if the law on higher education is not amended, this hysteria will not occur either. Of course, we have no particular problem with the opposition finding the essence of its policy in the face of transparency or the transparency of organisations financed from abroad. Everyone can decide on the political priorities for the last year before the elections. However, we expressly reject the fact that some Members experience their own frustration in the classification of the bill and the organisations involved in the bill. In particular, LMP took the lead in this, a shameful statement was first made by the representative of LMP, and even the fact that the representative of LMP belonged to Fidesz earlier, and we regard this as a particularly aggravating circumstance, is not even a mitigating circumstance that he then makes such statements. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett's intervention.]] We therefore believe that the reference to yellow stars and others only justifies the justification for the proposal made yesterday by the President of Jobbik, which requires a mental examination, and the extension of the staff. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So in this sense, I would also like to make it clear that the worst political accusations can be made in relation to all proposals, but this is a neutral law, which actually does not enforce any other principles other than the principle of transparency, has no stigmatizing consequences, and it is likely that those who are talking about stigmatisation will only make their intention to be made known to the public and made available to the public that, by the way, foreign funding is definitely stigmatized. Once again, in the area of freedom of expression, anyone can make such an opinion out of any party, as it can be said, in contrast, that the positive thing is that someone is able to receive support from abroad, but there is no mention of all this in the bill. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Therefore, the bill only applies the only principle that is decisive for transparency. And that's who's getting funding from. Everyone has the opportunity to draw conclusions. Of course, we did not dispute that the events mentioned by the Attorney General of Catania in connection with the protection of the external borders in recent years, for example, could arise in connection with the Hungarian border protection. Indeed, there were civil society organisations that aimed at weakening Hungary's sovereignty, the ability to defend Hungary's borders and its external defence capabilities. We disagree with this, but we do not disagree because these organisations are otherwise financed from abroad, but because we consider this activity harmful. However, we consider it important to see, for each organisation, in the case of the activity, what motivation may be behind this, and, yes, to see what funding is behind it. But you do this every day in relation to civil society organisations; when someone comes to budget money indirectly, of course, you make that accusation every day. These accusations may be part of democratic public life, but not legislation. The task of legislation is to establish the fact that the maximum possible transparency, the availability of the range of grants, is open and accessible to all. Therefore, those who do not identify with these objectives cannot support this bill. Those who identify with the aim of transparency, however, should not vote in favour of this bill; it is a pity to create unnecessary hysteria in relation to a bill that does not otherwise mean more than the letter described, and which applies principles that are called on against the government every day. I therefore call on my fellow Members, although I have relatively little illusion after the statements that have been made, to be kind enough to discuss the bill in a constructive debate. By the way, we are open to proposals for improving, logical and sensible amendments, and we hope that, as a result, we will be able to adopt legislation that, with the end of political hysteria, will clearly serve the full transparency of Hungarian public life, which, as has been said so far, would otherwise be our common goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to ask Secretary Mariann Water East to make a statement on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The main speaker's speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to István Vitányi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member, Mr Gulyás, who spoke as rapporteur, said that he would not use the 30 minutes available, nor would I, since it is not a complicated law, it is only eight stages, I think it is clear and clear. The Fidesz fraction supports the proposed bill, because it clearly serves the transparency of the management of civil society organisations. In 2011, Parliament adopted a fundamental law on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. At the same time, we acknowledged that the voluntary cooperation of the people is essential for Hungary's development, civil society organisations are the fundamental elements of society, which constantly contribute to the day-to-day achievement of our common values. The freedom of association and the creation of the operational foundations of civil society organisations, the recognition of their socially useful and community-creating activities, the promotion of their public interest and their public benefit are essential interests. The rules laid down at the time created an appropriate legal environment for the effective functioning of civil society organisations. On the basis of the practical comments that are intended to be improved, we can now say that civil service and registration operate more flexibly and quickly than in the last year. As was said yesterday on the question of my fellow Member, the annual support of civil society organisations has increased steadily since 2010, from 140 to 202 billion forints. Of course, on the opposition side, it is easier only to highlight the allocation of funds by the National Cooperation Fund rather than to present the whole process. In the civilian sector, the formula is not simple. In the United States of America, it was already recognised in 1938 that certain organisations represented foreign interests, so they created the so-called Foreign Agents Registration Act, simplifying: the FARA Act, which binds representatives of organisations with foreign clients to registration. Perhaps it is no coincidence that interest groups who seek to use civil society organisations for political purposes come from the American world. [[10.40]] As the general justification for the bill states, aid granted under various titles may be directly or indirectly capable of influencing civil society organisations, even to the extent that it alters the basic objectives and interests of civil society organisations. The aim of such benefits is to ensure that, through the social influence of the civil society organisations benefiting from them, support interest groups pursue their own interests in Hungary's political and social life. Following the US, many countries have responded to these processes. In an international comparison, the strictest legislation on foreign organisations was adopted by the Israeli Parliament, the Kneszt this year, when the Transparency Act on the obligation to notify foreign funding of civil society organisations was established. According to the law, civil society organisations covering more than half of their budget from funds provided by foreign government institutions must not only report their activities to the State, but also in all their public documents and advertising, both in printed form and on the Internet, indicate that they have received financial support from abroad. The authors of the Israeli law justified the establishment of the law by providing that civil society organisations are mainly financed by European governments to intervene in the internal affairs of Israel and to represent foreign interests under the pretext of promoting human rights. Dear House, In view of international examples, the Hungarian legislation is already in a lucky position to take into account, for example, the established requirements of the Venice Commission. The high authority judiciary has clearly stated that the transparency of NGOs financed from foreign sources can be a legitimate objective, but it is a stigmatisation of the fact that certain organisations are highlighted by the legislator on the ground that they are engaged in political activity. It ensures proportionality if the legislation binds foreign aid to a fixed minimum amount or a minimum period. I believe that the rapporteurs have taken full account of the recommendations made, so that the proposal submitted not only meets constitutional requirements but also meets the requirements in an international comparison. On the part of opposition parties, unjustified hysteria is natural, and left-wing parties are expected to do nothing else because their political goals are closely in line with or overlap fully with foreign interests. Today's most important social problem is the migrant issue, in which they are completely on the same platform as Soros's organisations. It is a big question, however, that Jobbik, who considered himself a national emotion, once again betrays his voters after voting off the amendment of the Fundamental Law and back on the side of the migrant party. This is particularly interesting in the light of the fact that they were the ones who submitted a proposal for a decision in June 2016, which would have put in place significantly stricter conditions for registering and publishing the proceeds of civil society organisations abroad. In the summer of 2016, Jobbik would have branded all civil society organisations who received a million HUF support from abroad within a calendar year as foreign agent organisations. Although our bill of transparency was considered unacceptable after the five-party consultation, and they did not hesitate to intimidate our foreign organizations, the vote shows how much the world has turned on them in less than a year. I think it is important to note that the proposed legislation does not create a new procedure, separate registers, create a disproportionate additional burden for civil society organisations, but at the same time there are broad guarantee rules, such as gradualness and proportionality. Hungary's national and national security interest is to guarantee transparency in civil society organisations, which is also a guarantee of our sovereignty. I ask the honourable House to support the bill tabled. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start by saying that the Prime Minister thinks there's an open war going on. Indeed, we can agree on that, since the 2010 election there has been an open war between two world views. This is beginning to escalate, I could say that what only a few people have seen from the end of 2010 is now beginning to feel on their own. It is just not a matter of fighting between the Christian and the multicultural liberal worldview. The group, which is still in the minority of Parliament today, but which is already in a significant social majority, believes that, despite all its difficulties and even any maladministration, the West, the European, democratic and rule of law, will continue to hold the future for us. On the other hand, the NER system that rejects the idea of the rule of law, after centralization, the destruction of brakes and counterweights, owns the autocratic world of single-person national leadership and local or sectoral small kingdoms, thus pushing Hungary, in its state order, economically and ideologically closer and closer to Putin's dictatorial Russia. This really is a battle between two worlds. The fight of these two worlds. The person who planned the technical analysis of the bill in today's debate, I think my position is wrong. Anyone who wants to discuss professional proposals today, where and how this bill can be improved, strengthened or mitigated, how to create transparency for civil society organisations, is also misguided, not seeing the forest from the tree. That pro-government Member, two of them so far, said this, Gergely Gulyás and my fellow Member, István Vitányi, who would demand such an attitude from the opposition, well, he wants the public not to see the forest from the tree. It is fortunate that a cynical half-smile appeared on the face of my fellow Member Gulyas when he spoke of such things. This bill is a proposal submitted by Viktor Orbán on his personal instruction, which is an integral part of a process that has been going on since 2010, and which has a direct history and a sibling of lex CEU. Constitutional barriers were destroyed from the path of their power between 2010 and 2014. The system of brakes and balances ensuring the most important principle of operation of the rule of law has already been broken down. Suffrage has been shaped in their own image, and a paternalist state has been created, where the citizen becomes more and more vulnerable to the state. [[Attila Mesterházy: Shame!]] For the dictatorship in Putin, of course, it would have been useful to have another two thirds, but it was taken from you by voters in the spring of 2015. Now, however, there are restrictions made possible by extended power, as is customary in such regimes. They're trying to create a new social elite, like the working-parastic power at the time - I think it's familiar - and one of their loyal men, the Rector of Corvinus University, was stupid enough to say this openly in defense of your corruption cases. He believes that corruption is acceptable if they implement a political vision by shaping society. Of course, there are preconditions for creating the new elite, so scapegoat training is an essential element of the system, whether it is the communists or the bourgeoisie in general; whether it is the businessmen or the aristocracy who call the Jewish capitalist who sucks out the people; whether it is the former strategic partners that create jobs called the bank and the multis, or the post-possessed pensioners and the service pensioners serving our country; whether it is the European Union that symbolizes belonging to the West, which, according to government propaganda, must now be stopped, defeated, and still be listed. Their ideology, which is lurking or open, is shoved into children from early childhood, centralizes and destroys education. It's better to have a lot of people in line than to think, isn't it, fellow Members? I hope we can reverse this process in time. And for adults, there's billions of state propaganda on Royal TV and radio, commercial TVs, Internet portals, local and national newspapers. And if you don't get in line, you get the stigma and the sanctions, the dismissal, the tax procedure, the downfall, and the rest. [[10.50]] Then people slowly get used to the fact that if they don't want to politicalize, if they don't accept power, if they don't scold Kádár publicly - sorry, Orbánt - they might just be secretly, at home, they can do quite well. There is no freedom, there is no real potential for people beyond power, but there is physical security. Now, that's built on XXI. It's a hundredth-century design. And for that there is a great role model, Russia. My colleague Gergely Gulyás pointed out in particular that they do not intend to follow the Russian model in any way, either in terms of social order or in terms of state order, or in terms of regulation for civilians. And then I think of the saying that the drunkest one always says he's sober. The thing is, unfortunately, you are wrong about this, my fellow Member Gulyás. When you refer to an American sample, it is common to forget that it was actually created in 1938, already the bill. Do you remember what happened a year later? World War II broke out. The international situation was a little different, the political situation. A bill cannot be rejected from the social environment in which it was born. In the United States, this was about something quite different than here. They're not following the philosophy of the United States, they're following the philosophy of Russia in Putin. It is, of course, impossible to summarize the military of methods in a speech, but let us look at some parallels that can be raised between Russia and Hungary on current topics. Let's say the media is here. Putin's already checking 93 percent of the media. The public media, of course, was hand-operated there as well, but in the commercial sector, the two largest Russian companies, ORT and large businesses owned by NTV, were threatened with prison if they didn't sell their property to the Kremlin's targeted man. The two major entrepreneurs have not lived in Russia since then. The same has been done in the case of the largest editions of newspapers and magazines. How did we do? The TV2 was purchased by Andy Vajna, designated by Orbán, and the rest by other good people of Orbán. So the method here is the same. Putin has already expressed the importance of the unity of politics and society in his Millennium Speech. In this context, it has created its own opposition parties, which are part of the system and can take over the role of genuine opposition parties. Do you recognize the spirit of NER? Do you also like to remember the multitude of fake parties in the 2014 elections, which were made possible by the new electoral law adopted by you? This is what Gleb Pavlovsky, the advisor to the Kremlin, is calling the head of the NGO funded by the Government for Effective Politics, an unconventional democracy. That's something we've heard from you. Pavlovsky is now a supporter of Putin's system. By the way, he worked for the Open Society Institute of George Soros in the 1990s. Are you familiar, fellow Members? Or here is the European University of St. Petersburg. The Russian Fire Protection Authority identified violations in 52 points and immediately closed the university. In a few days, the university has acquitted 20 violations, but it is expected that they will not succeed. A press campaign was then launched against the university, that the foreign donation he received - I quote one of the members of the Putin Parliament - was an attempt by an alien fake government to intervene in the 2007-2008 Russian election campaign. You sound like Szilárd Németh or István Hollik! The problem was that the university adopted support from the European Union for the organisation of a training training of electoral observers. And what was the solution? Three weeks after the Russian elections, education could start again, except for the election training. In our country, not fire police, but the Education Office has been instigated into an educational institution that is uncomfortable for power. Of course, foreign conspiracy logic, words against interference in matters of national governance have not failed here. Surprising resemblance, isn't it, fellow Members? But let's be specific about civilians. In 2004, there was a law on this in Russia. And not only the Russian system, the dictator of Venezuela called President Hugo Chávez, about this type of legislation that criminalizes specific individuals or groups, said to my friends anything, a law for my enemies. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But back to the Russian civilians: the law gave the power to control civil society organisations in a very wide range of ways, and made it possible to make them impossible because of small mistakes. Do you remember how it started in Hungary? Police pulled out of an organization supported by the Norwegian Civil Fund, took his papers and the head of the organization. Then, on the personal instructions of Viktor Orbán, the Government Audit Office initiated an investigation. Later, the court ruled the proceedings illegal and unfounded. In Russia, the main proceedings against Kremlin's critical and human rights protection organisations were launched. What a resemblance! Just like in Hungary. And who would eventually have to suspend their activities in Russia? For example, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. What a coincidence, they're the Soros hires. And, of course, foreign financing in Russia was also a key issue. But it's okay, because Putin immediately replaced the void. He created the public relations offices where the Russian citizen can turn instead of the civilians. Here the good Russian can tell you his problem immediately after giving his personal data. In fact! It also established the so-called Public Chamber, which consists of representatives of civil society, including civil society organisations. This is slowly taking over the role of the Parliament. And this forum is considered so important by the government that its members are selected by the Kremlin itself. I wonder who they're made of. Allow me to read a paragraph of a passage from a book, and it will soon become clear that these non-government organisations appear to be independent institutions and hide behind names that suggest that their main activities are the protection of human or minority rights or the legislative reform. In fact, however, they were created with the aim of legitimizing government policy, smoking foreign funding from genuine NGOs, and confusing the public so that it could not be decided who was right, the government or its critics. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Is this a familiar situation? But no, this book was not written about Hungary, although I think we are very close to getting into its improved edition. The title of the book is "Dictatorship 2.0" and the subtitle is "The XXI." The naturalization of centuries-old tyrants. And the quote was written about Putin Russia. As the author puts it, this is a bizarre Russian innovation, NGOs are run by the government. There is already a name for the phenomenon: GONGO, a government NGO. It's a wooden iron ring. We already have one of these, not just the C.E.F., like the Centre for Fundamental Rights. All he does is use scientific analysis to justify the government's actions. Well, is that what's waiting for us? Now you're gonna set the target, and then you're gonna get sanctions? I'm not really in love with any civil society organization. On the government, we had a personal dispute with the TSA leader at the time. But I hope there will be. Civil control is the foundation of democracy. The biggest problem I see is that the current constitutional relations are often still under Article XX. We want to define it with a century mindset - and this is true of the international organisations that implement control in the Member States, the standards and recommendations they apply - including that a system is dictatorial, autocratic, or a rule of law. And since XX. None of them are comparable to dictatorships of the century, so we find that although the system of brakes and counterweights has been severely weakened, the democratic institutional system has fallen apart, the idea of the rule of law is no longer in place, there is democracy, because where is this well-known, in terms of its structure or methods, XX. From the systems we consider dictatorial! Of course, many already admit that political regimes are not worthy of previous categories, such as democracy, dictatorship, autocracy, but not even of newer ones, such as a controlled democracy, an illiberal state, and the rest, not of qualification, not of the name of the system, but of the exploration of the exact nature of the system. However, sometimes it is worth calling things by their names. Maybe it's the 21st. The authoritarian systems of the century, stand at any level of autocracy, or continue only towards autocracy, work with much more sophisticated techniques than those of XX. century ancestors. However, this does not change the point. We finally get to the point where masses, including right-wing intellectuals, recognize that the rule of law in Hungary has ceased to exist, the principle of rule of law does not work, and the consequences and consequences of this. In 2018, society will have the opportunity to correct. And we have to do it to make the opportunity a reality. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, I am obliged to note that your comment or rating on the Rector of Corvinus University was unworthy of you. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's true!]] In addition, it was exhausted by the Parliamentary Act 48. I will inform the Speaker of this. Thank you very much. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] [[11.00]] The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: This will be interesting.]] In the last 15-20 years, a phenomenon has become increasingly visible, I think not only in Europe, not only in Eastern Central Europe, but also in America. Only those who do not want it or wish to speak of it as if it did not exist do not notice this phenomenon. You can see that the MSZP is pretending that this phenomenon does not exist on the left. This phenomenon is about people who want their political opinion to become a reality. I'd like you to have a say in what's happening in the world. However, I do not want to do this in a legitimate election, based on the confidence of the electorate, but bypassing it, through all mechanisms, even bypassing the rules of democracy. Yes, this is what György Soros has done, among other things, for many years, decades in Europe and America. [[Zoltán Lukács: In fact, Asia.]] Let me read you a very good quote on how to achieve your political goal, how to gain influence. The following is the serial recipe:.. Destroy the limits so that they do not hinder your movement. Destroy national sovereignty so that the interests of the inhabitants, or locals, do not hinder you. Buy experts with money, scholarships, awards, fame, recognition, hype, who you can and should. Call them experts, independent, democratic and open-minded. Prevent their speech situation from becoming exposed to their professional incompetence, as was the case when the second apparent and organised falsification of the data on general warming occurred. So buy local media, TV, radio, and the Internet, call them independent, and pay them to work for the goals you set. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] Reward them and star them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Constant noise, interruptions on the opposition side. Intercom from the pro-government side: In Democracy, they listen to each other!]] The Soros civil organizations, which are also a gentleman's support, are also independent and, of course, the only depositaries of expertise. They prefer to refer to themselves and to each other as objective ones. But with enthusiasm and no sock, they can be placed in battle every time for every purpose the Soros Empire has set for them. What do we need to know and what do we see about these NGOs? I mean, it's hard to call these civil society organisations. First, we see that they have no social embeddedness, no actual membership, little domestic support. Allow a specific example: for example, Márton Gulyás's organization, the Krétakör Foundation, while in 2014 he received almost HUF 25 million as a foreign grant. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: How do you know?]] - they themselves announced - until then they received 130 thousand forints from 1 percent offerings; this means that they were actually offered by the workers there. So it is quite obvious that these organisations have no social embeddedness, no membership [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Then who are you attacking? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Then why were you afraid of them?]] They don't have people who are committed to supporting them from the inside. Their goals are not civilian goals, but political in nature. These organisations are highly represented in the media, and we can also see that, obviously, the noise from the left, that there is always cooperation between the left and between them, there is always an agreement of opinion. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that in 2006, for example, organisations that we are talking about did not immediately stand behind civil protests, as they did in 2013 when protesting the Student Network, did during the false accusations of the Soros University and the abolition of school leave, and during the demonstrations in this regard. So in 2006, when people's eyes were shot out, these organisations somehow did not worry about human rights as much as they do now. We can see that there is always a correlation between the left and these civil society organisations. We can see that these organisations are sitting on certain media cases and organising protests in these cases. Remember the Student Network: it turned out in the case of the Student Network that NGOs financed by Soros were behind them. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Do you know what you're doing, man? Aren't you ashamed? The president's ringing the bell.]] But let's remember the protests about the health situation or the protests from a week or two ago. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In these cases, it can be seen that the people and the organisations who stood behind these protests from one moment to the next used these cases as an instrument. After all, their real goal was to put pressure on the government and try to attack the government. Another example, perhaps even clearer, is migration. We can see that György Soros has a very clear opinion on migration. He has repeatedly said that he believes that migrants can remedy the labour shortage in Europe that is beginning to develop. And what do we see? We can see that, for example, in 2016, when hundreds of thousands of people and even 1.5 million people came to Europe on the Balkan route, they found all kinds of brochures for migrants, and it also turned out that these brochures were made by NGOs that were financed by George Soros one by one. The question is whether we're the only ones who see it that way. After all, left-wing congressmen say it's just our fantasy. Allow me to read two quotes. One on the right, one on the left. He says Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kunz two weeks ago, by the way, that we have to end this NGO madness. Those are the words he used to say. After all, it is clear that NGOs that help migrants in migration are actually dealing with smugglers. It's a quote from the right. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] But I'll tell you one on the left. Your strong ally Victor Ponta says that George Soros and his paid organizations have influenced Romanian and Eastern European politics for years. So it looks like we're not the only ones who see it that way. We can also see that it is also obvious that György Soros wants to exert influence in order for his world vision and political opinion to be manifested, to be realized. In this respect, we can say that there is a political difference between George Soros and the organisations he financed, and between us. They believe in multiculturalism. They are a XX for national identity. They see me as a century-old dusty ideology, which, by the way, is XX. In the first century, he was a problem. Therefore, it is not called a national identity in general, but a nationalism, a harmful nationalism in general. They think it's better to get over it. They are thinking in a federal Europe, where, by the way, national parliaments no longer have a role to play. They are thinking in a Europe where migrants are welcome, and they want a Europe full of migrants. On the other hand, we believe that God created the world to be somewhere at home. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Steal that too.]] So our national identity, our Hungarianness, will never under any circumstances be undressed or undressed. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You steal from Hungarians! You stole the country!]] We believe that the future of Hungary and Europe can only be based on family values. We believe that if we allow migrants into Europe, we will end the Christian Europe that has been able to give Member States security and economic prosperity over the past 60 years. [[11.10]] So in this respect, it is quite obvious that there is a difference of opinion between us. The question is how to respond to this type of pressure, which I have described in recent minutes, in a rule of law. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Discuss this with Pope Francis.]] On the one hand, we can react by engaging in a political debate with these organisations and on the other hand by creating transparency. [[Attila Mesterházy: We forbid them! Agnes Kunhalmi: Clean them up!]] This civil law is about transparency [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You should see through your pockets! Show me what's in your pocket.]] because we believe that this phenomenon can best be combated by transparency in a rule of law, a democracy. That is what the law, as my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás said, is about. We reject the accusations that compare with Russia [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: They're still true! Dismiss what I've told you.]] because you know that in Russia, foreign-funded organisations are registered as undesirable organisations. [[What's it itch for you, old man? Use Antivacarin instead.]] There's no such thing in our bill. The Hungarian bill, which is before us, does not in any way classify these organisations. The only thing that's going to happen to organizations that have money from abroad is to register themselves. In no way does the law itself classify foreign aid in either a positive or a negative sense. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The law qualifies you! Ágnes Kunhalmi: Then 888 describes the list of donors!]] If you are allowed to give a parallel, you are also well aware that the European Union itself requires the supported institution to indicate that the investment was carried out with the support of the European Union. It does this because people have the right to know that we have made an investment from domestic sources or from European Union sources. We want the same transparency. We would like all Hungarian people to know where they get their money from about civil society organisations that are overrepresented in the media and express political opinions. It's not a rating, it's just transparency. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: Where does the COF get the money, my fellow Member? How do you launder the stolen money? Dr. István Józsa: Shame! Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] We therefore urge the parliamentary parties to support this law. Of course, if you have sensible amendments, we will consider them. Once again, I ask you to support this legislation. The Christian Democratic People's Party will support you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Very good! Zoltán Lukács: Pista! That was great!]]
u2017-04-19-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. Dear Parliament, [[Noise. It's ringing.]] I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr István Szávay, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-19-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear tableds, We would like to comment responsibly on this proposal, and we would like to approach this issue responsibly. This is quite difficult, by the fact that, three times in 15 minutes, my pro-government colleagues have been able to lie so much, so long and so fluently, as they have done here, doing so with reference to God. But let's go in line. Unlike the MSZP, I do not want to create a mood, nor do I want to put this topic in a different international comparison, and not talk about dictatorship. It could be, it might be worth it, but I'd rather deal with the law itself, what's in it, what's not in it, and what's wrong with it. Let me start a little more in the context of the whole question. We have said many times that Jobbik would always be a partner, and indeed we ourselves have urged that a comprehensive amendment of the civil law adopted in 2012 be made to Parliament, a comprehensive amendment that is otherwise sufficiently in agreement with the key actors of the civil sector, not only with the CÖF and your civil society organisations, but also with those who are really doing important work in this country as civilians. Compared to this, we're dealing with a partial question again. It's an important question, but there's a lot more to the civilian sphere than that. You're not willing to do that. Over the past one or two years, we have drilled and carved on the civil law on several occasions, in connection with some current government hysterical or some other hidden intent - or not so hidden. Think of it when we only touched the civil law and argued about it a week here in Parliament so that Szilárd Németh could sabotage the working home in Csepel. Therefore, you have opened the civil society law, but are still unwilling to address the issue of what amazing, unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic burdens civil society organisations face; you are not willing to continue to deal with the fact that the Hungarian courts are not willing to comply with the deadlines set by law; that civil society organisations are not at a disadvantage because they do not get access to the 1 percent offered from personal income tax because the courts do not comply with their obligations and do not issue appropriate certifications, as you do not, for example, deal with the fact that, thanks to various bad laws, civil society organisations are losing a lot of 1 percent of offers - we have also talked about - because if one day later someone pays their income tax on them, even if one day slips away, then the 1 percent they offer will no longer reach civil society organisations. By the way, and I also asked you a written question at the time, let me tell you this: between 2010 and 2016, there were 265,000 such taxpayers, who would have offered a total of HUF 1 billion of HUF 12 million to civilians and HUF 712 million to the churches. The HUF 1.8 billion, my fellow Members, is not available to civil society organisations because of the wrongness of civil society law and related legislation. These are the questions that should also be discussed. But let's focus on what's in front of us right now, if you're with someone else right now, it looks like you're not willing. There was a five-party meeting, Congressman Gulyás, you called him. At this five-party meeting, we expressed very clear, very clear, very professional views on what we consider to be wrong in your proposal. Compared to this, they changed about two points for a word, they literally gave the same thing, and then you came out and held a press conference, and all you could say about our comments was that George Soros put his foot in Jobbik. Stop, please, Congressman, you and Congressman Vitányi, who have left here. You can't call someone stupid when you're stupid in Parliament, but you can lie in public. What you're doing is a disgrace. Stop lying to me, you bastards! What Congressman Vitányi has just said to him, what the Habony works have written to him, because he did not write it, I am quite sure... - and do not speak of opposition, do not speak of opposition positions, there is no opposition position. We have a different view on this matter than left-wing parties. Yesterday, the representatives of Jobbik voted in favour of the inclusion of this proposal in the series. Then why are they lying? Why is the Secretary of State lying here before yesterday's agenda, why is Congressman Vitányi lying, and why is Jobbik talking about protecting Soros' civil society organisations? We're not protecting him. Now, it should be decided that this law is really important to you, and you want this law to be adopted with the greatest possible vote rate, or there is nothing else in the whole of the law, because now I have come to believe that you are already making a wrong law on purpose, which is unacceptable to the opposition, so that you can talk about how the opposition is protecting Soros's organisations. We're not protecting Soros' organization! Just as Congressman Vitányi said, Jobbik had a similar proposal on this matter a year ago. It was the same thing as yours. We agree with that. I would like to make it clear here, to the public of this country, to the Habony Media and to the Fidesz media that we are not on the side of Soros' organizations. It is right, right, reasonable and justified what you are saying in this regard: let the operation of the civil sector be clear and transparent. But let us talk about the whole civil sphere, fellow Members, not just foreign funding. Politics can be influenced not only from abroad, but also from within. I've told you many times, I've told you, others have told you, I'll tell you the example of the COFF again. If there is a civil society organisation in Hungary, which influences politics, it is the Civil Alliance Forum. To this day, we do not know where they had hundreds of millions of people to plant the country where Jobbik is, or with posters embarrassing other current enemies of the government. By the way, we have our suspicions as to how you fatten this organization in ministries, through civil society organisations that are worthy of a better fate and are otherwise important for national policy, so that you can continue this hate campaign. Oh, and before you guys start snooping, I'm gonna tell you once again, clearly and clearly, what the COF never said, anyway, that Jobbik is gonna take care of any campaign spending, including the runner now. This has been the case in the past, and it will continue to be the case in the future. We are indeed responsible for this matter, and we want full transparency in this matter, and you do not. All you're talking about is foreign funding, and in this regard, you've also made a bad law, which is professionally possible from a lot of points of view, and creates life-threatening precedents. [[11.20]] They're talking about credibility. Old Bolshevik method: what we do, we accuse our opponents, right? Are we the couple that grew out of Soros' foundation? Are we the party that is the result of an attempt to influence abroad? Well, it's us, so let's say they're the opposition. Are we the ones who can do anything for money and power? Of course it's us - let's say it's the opposition. That's the Bolshevik tempo you've had for several weeks now, by the way. And after that, Congressman Gulyás stands up and asks the opposition for constructivity and talks about becoming inclusive against well-meaning proposals. Then so be it, Congressman. We will have ten or eleven amendments to this law so that we can take the biggest problems and the most important files out of it. The opposition is accused of unnecessary hystericalisation by the Member at a time when the parties of government have been doing hysterical acts for weeks now, on perceived and real issues. We also put forward a proposal at the time, precisely because of Gordon Bajnai's Home and Progress Foundation, because they were funded by the Hillary Clintons from America. It was clearly an attempt at political influence. Once again, I cannot say this again: we agree that these questions should be public data, but let everyone else's support on this matter be public. Let us point out what organisations are, and we will also suggest this, which, for example, receive support from a party foundation. COF received 20 million from the Fidesz Party Foundation. Isn't this an attempt to influence politics? We want to make a law, and we want this law to stand the test of time, which, if any, will also bind our hands later, and it should be clear to everyone that anyone who manifests himself in political matters behind a civil mask in Hungary, along with the interests of foreign interests or internal political interests, is doing so because he has endured public money or because there is some hostile attempt to influence it. Let's see what kind of problems the law has. The biggest problem, my fellow Members, is that you are putting everyone under the same roof. In order to be able to use this matter along their internal policy goals and to make it more understandable to their voters, this whole matter has been brought down to an amazing bottom, primitive level of communication, and nothing else is said but that the problem alone is that an organisation is financed from abroad; while exempting from it organisations that should not be and not exempting organisations that should be. What is the reason why organisations engaged in sport and religious activities should be exempted? In the case of sports organisations, the law is the easiest to play. What about religious organizations? What if, for example - and now I do not want to take over your rhetoric, but let me draw attention to this - someone through a Muslim religious organization will conduct pro-immigration propaganda through Hungary? Is that what you mean? Can't you do that? What about the relief agencies? Okay, let's be a little careful with the relief agencies. This has not been explained by my fellow Member, because I believe that this may be behind the debate within the governing party, that some of these migrant organisations, supported by Soros, are also aid organisations or charities. We propose, and ask you to consider, that we take out from it organisations that work specifically for Hungarian and European citizens and for Hungarians across borders. I think that could be resolved. Or there is the case of the Tempus Public Foundation, through which payments come from Brussels that do not come through the Hungarian State. This includes, for example, Erasmus Plus or individual applications, scholarships and grants to civil society organisations, universities and schools. In your interpretation, that would be included in this law. Or there's animal welfare organizations, dog shelters and stuff. We have received such requests in this regard, as they would indeed be covered by this proposal. Many have nothing to do with politics, but many of them also receive significant subsidies from abroad. I no longer mention the Maltese Charity Service or the Ecumenical Aid Organization, whose wife, Anikó Lévai, is one of the ambassadors of good service. But the most irresponsible thing about this is that, and I am glad that we have at least managed to do so, Mr Gulyás, if you have not yet been willing to talk about this in the last two weeks, that you will consider the exclusion of national minority organisations from this law. This is a life-threatening and irresponsible precedent, not only because it illegally brands national minority organisations. Okay, well, the law doesn't talk about agency organizations, but your communication is now about everyone here being an agent funded from abroad. [[Noise. An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Yes, you can. They have taken the communication of this matter to this level, my fellow Members, so that they can scare and show themselves to be strong. In addition to stigmatizing national minority organisations, this is a life-threatening precedent for foreign countries, neighbouring countries. By the way, Minister Lazarus himself admitted this to the question of Gábor Balogh, journalist of the Alfa news, on the government briefing of two weeks ago, where he said that yes, this is a real danger, that this issue must be dealt with responsibly. I do not see this responsibility in this proposal yet. Speaking of Congressman Hollik referring to Victor Ponta, Victor Ponta said something else, Congressman. For example, how good your CEU law is and should be done in Romania, obviously with the aim of trying to make Hungarian universities there impossible. And don't give me that bullshit bullshit crap about the legal situation. You were also not interested in the legal situation with regard to CEU. And if the Romanians want to screw with Hungarian universities across the border, they won't be interested in the legal situation either, believe me, who is now not registered. Victor Ponta said that, by the way, if you're referring to him, it's worth considering. It is quite clear that nationality organisations should be excluded from this circle on the basis of some wording. We will make a proposal on this, but of course we will accept something else. This is very dangerous, let me say it again, and the reason why this 1.0 primitive communication is very dangerous is that the problem with an organization is that it affects politics on the basis of foreign interests. The vast majority of Hungarian civil society organisations across the border influence politics and receive support from abroad. We are talking about civil society organisations, rights defenders or the Székely National Council or others, who influence politics so much that they want to change the constitution, fundamental law and fundamental laws of the neighbouring countries in order to ensure the rights, autonomy, language use and educational rights of the Hungarian community living there. Yes, it's a hard political influence, a legitimate political influence, we think - but from Bucharest, Bratislava, Kiev, believe me, this whole question looks completely different. And if you're communicating in this case the way you are, then this is a dangerous precedent. The other issue that we have not yet discussed or raised, but you have never answered what is the guarantee that this proposal alone is not just a first step. What guarantee is there that there will be no discrimination laws that unduly disadvantage those who should not or should not be included in your justifications, charities, animal defenders, civilians or ethnic NGOs and others? I would very much like to see an explanation and commitment from the government here that the aim is not to exclude from various sources of tender, from the National Cooperation Fund or from delegation to the public media or from other organisations that are subject to the law. To this law, once again, we would like to take a responsible approach. In this regard, we will make our amendments. And you can decide if you really want to deal with the problem, if you really want to be constructive with the opposition, and if you are going to have a constructive pro-government attitude, whether you really have an interest in solutions and transparency. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] or just interested in political hysteria [[The president's ringing again.]] And that's why they're derailing the communication of this important matter to such a level, by the way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-38	Thank you, Congressman Savay. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2017-04-19-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First, István Hollik must respond to my fellow Member. His comment shows that he knows George Soros very well. He obviously studied how George Soros had previously supported Fidesz. However, his comment also revealed that he did not know the civil society movement at all, civil society organisations. My fellow Member Hollik and Mr Gulyás said that the purpose of this law is to increase transparency on the part of civil society organisations. This could be considered if this was the first attack on the civilian movement, civil society organisations. But during the Fidesz administration, this is the third major intervention and attack on civil society organisations. This, the last one, is the most serious because it not only wants to be an enemy of civil society organisations, but also wants to destroy them morally, because the civilians who receive more than HUF 7.2 million of foreign funding are agent organisations, in the words of Szilárd Németh. We know that agency organizations are hurting our country, so we don't need them, we have to wipe them out. I don't want to compare this situation with the situation in Russia, not Azerbaijan, not Turkey, but I'm going a little bit back in time, and yes, there are a lot of similarities compared to the Kadar period. In the mid-'80s, at the last stage of the party state, something similar happened at the political level in order to make civilians impossible. Politics has intervened directly in the lives of civil society organisations. Perhaps many people know that in the mid-'80s he began to spread the wings of the environmental and conservation movement, and during this period the germs of the protest against the water escape in Bős-Nagymaros appeared. The leaders of the then party state were afraid of civil initiatives and became a system changer from the Danube movement, so they began to chase the civilians who dared to take action against the Bős-Nagymaros water escape. At the highest level of policy, it was forbidden to create a national environmental and nature conservation organisation and to destroy those who believed that the construction of the water escape would cause serious environmental damage. [[11.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can't help but think that the government may be afraid that the civilian movement will overthrow him. Because the government went up to the wall by tailoring the electoral law, and they believe that opposition parties cannot show strength in the change of government. Dear House, Now let's see what the government's been destroying for the last seven years. During the period after the change of regime, the domestic civil sector started to develop rapidly. There were also foreign and domestic sources of civilian projects. I myself have experienced the development of the environmental and nature conservation movement, which soon became one of the most important movements in Central and Eastern Europe. However, serious performances can be reported both in the social and health sectors, but cultural, village and rural development organisations have also given credit for their activities. The fact is that during this period American foundations also supported the domestic civil sector with significant resources, but as time progressed, and as government subsidies increased, it decreased: American support became small. By the end of the 1990s, the larger Hungarian NGOs established their relations with European civil umbrella organisations, so they were more on their feet. At the same time, as with other countries, the government has allowed civil society organisations, together with a transfer of funds, to assume public tasks. This was good for everyone because they could carry out tasks that the state could not carry out. There have been a number of these tasks in the social, health and education sectors, but also in the field of environmental and nature protection. Even in the first government cycle of Fidesz, this practice worked. But something happened to the Fides. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They are drunk.]] And with their rise to power in 2010, something really changed. As I mentioned in my introduction, the recent amendment of the Civil Code is not the first, but the third, of Fidesz's action against civilians. In the first stage, the withdrawal of aid started after 2010 and the creation of so-called civil society organisations. The National Civil Fund has been completely invaded by the government, filled with Fidesz-nears. Support for independent civil society organisations has started to decline radically. The funding for the activities of civil society organisations previously set up in specialised ministries has also been steadily reduced. Domestic resources decreased to a fraction compared to the previous two decades. And that, of course, was not without effect. First, civilians began to live up to their reserves, and then personal and organisational cuts began. I know civil society organisations dealing with rural development and local sustainability that have previously won EU and domestic grants to gain infrastructure from training centres, and are now at a point where they are unable to operate them because they have no resources. There are also organisations that have already been forced to auction their educational center - but they are not important to the government. The Swiss and Norwegian funds as well as some US and Western European foundations helped civilians to survive. After the withdrawal of domestic funds, the government also started to eliminate foreign subsidies. An example of this was the government action against Ökotárs, which was unprecedented in the system changer in Hungary. The Norwegian Fund was simply being stolen from civilians by the government. And the government couldn't have said that Soros wanted to buy the domestic civilians. Thanks to international and domestic protests, the government's knife broke into this. But the government doesn't rest, and now it's on the brand. Yesterday, CEU, today's civilians - and tomorrow's turn? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett and Marta Demeter applaud. Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-04-19-40	Thank you very much. Of the 15-minute time frame, there are 12.58 seconds left, and I give the floor to Mr Bernadett Wind.
u2017-04-19-41	I don't think math's coming out, Mr. President, but I'll talk to you for 13 minutes. Thank you.
u2017-04-19-42	Sorry, wait, wait, you're right, you're right. I was wrong. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-19-43	But I'm happy to use Fidesz' time frame because they didn't use it.
u2017-04-19-44	We're listening, ma'am.
u2017-04-19-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I begin by saying that it is not the civilians who need to fear the independence of this country, but the Russian agents who are sitting here with us in Parliament right now, and who are Paks II. They're working to build it against the obvious will of the people. We learn from abroad that the goal is to increase Russian-Hungarian friendship for Minister Péter Szijjártó. We learn from abroad that you have launched an Iranian nuclear programme, and we learn from abroad that you are slapping Erdoğan's shoulder blades, congratulating him on his so-called victory. You are a foreign-funded government, you are foreign-funded politicians, you are now Fidesz, funded from abroad, and your farmers are in the East. This is a brief and brief opinion on what interests you serve. And after that, please do not come up with the interests of anyone else in this country, until you have clarified whose behalf you are pressing the button here in the Hungarian Parliament. The Civil Code is another opportunity to protect the country from its own government. We have one advantage, that we know about what will happen, we know what happened to the Russians when this law was introduced. In Russia, the law that you are talking about has been introduced in 2012; in the last four years, nearly 150 NGOs have been on the list of foreign agents, 27 of which have been closed, at least 21 environmental organisations have been added to the list, and as a result of the law, the organisations' resources have been reduced, their judgment has deteriorated, their employees have been intimidated, the civilian control of government policy has been virtually insane, and civilians with important social services have practically shut down in Russia. The thing is, what you guys put on the table actually works like a gate drug. You want to take this through Parliament and then do whatever you want with civilians. This is completely unworthy, unacceptable, and note that we reject this recipe from abroad to the maximum. And it is also time for us to refuse that you have not even come to the committee meeting to defend your own proposal, and you have said in line that you will not discuss the time frame that you have at your disposal. I understand that it's very embarrassing for you to do this job, but, you know, that's what happens when you give yourself up as a stranger, and that's what Fidesz has done, and you guys have to do this crap job here, or you have to give up your mandate, and quit the Fidesz because what you're doing is completely insane. And don't make people look like idiots. The thing is, when it was announced yesterday, it was said here in Parliament that this is an individual motion of representation, the government has nothing to do with it... who do you think you are, idiot? ! They worked as biorobots in Fidesz, and now they're conscious? No. Viktor Orbán ordered this whole law to go and serve his interests. One problem is that Viktor Orbán joined Vladimir Putin's wages. It's very clear what this is all about, this two-step puppy recipe: they're trumped-up charges to discredit civilians and then they're branded by law. The intense serialization that was cut here, I'm telling you, it's making me sick. Viktor Orbán was a Soros scholar. Why can't you clear that up to this day? [[Intruders from Fidesz: It turns me out too! Shame on you.]] He went to Oxford, that's what we could do, but we shouldn't say anything. ? What does the Prime Minister think? ! And in his Easter interview, it was something pretty amazing. The Prime Minister says: I do not believe that the civil intellectuals would like to sell on a bridle with those who - listen to me! - as a result of the law which will soon be adopted, it is clear that foreign money, serving foreign interests, is the result of a foreign assignment. Gentlemen and ladies, I'm a member of the National Security Committee. [[11.40]] I need to know if there's anything wrong with these organizations if they wanted to do anything foreign. To date, no information has been received in the National Security Committee, nor in the minutes, nor in the meetings. What is the Prime Minister of Hungary talking about from now on? If we're talking about anything alien, we should be the first to know, because that's what our committee is for. Seriously, who do they think is an idiot? And don't let the Prime Minister look at someone else's crotch, but sweep his own puddle of who he's selling on a crotch with. Civil values, civil society, independent thinking and national interest, no, against all this he made him a cocktail of Vladimir Putin, he drinks it, but the thing is, we are not buyers for this style or this direction. By the way, your party family isn't interested in this either. The People's Party is wondering if you're disqualified or not. What awaits you at the end of the month? Where'd they go? If you make Europe a stain on you, I would, let's say, be less interested, but if you drag the country down with you, it's totally unacceptable! [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás is talking to István Hollik.]] In fact, a specific element of this bill is that Brussels is called abroad with a noble simplicity. It says, and I would like to say that Mr Gulyás, if he is not talking to Congressman Hollik about the next phase of the Soros Propaganda, tell him that you have managed to codify that if someone is directly applying for Brussels, say, an academic research group, at that moment he will be a support organisation from abroad, but if he receives the same money through the budget, he will not. [[Agnes Kunhalmi to the pro-government benches.]] What's this? What's this story about? Plus, I'd like to add that if you're gonna have to sweep your own front desk, you're gonna have to start at COFFEE. I hold in my hand the simplified report of the COF and its public utility annex. [[He's showing it to me.]] It's empty. The fact is, that's what the C.E.F. could admit. Here's the other one. [[He's showing it to me.]] This is the declaration of an institution you call Soros's funded organization. It's full of numbers, it's right there... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2017-04-19-46	I will ask the head of the group if she has announced the way of the illustration. I consider it... [[Moraj and interventions from the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'll pay you 100,000 forints, seriously! Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] Thank you very much. I consider it... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'll pay you 200!]] And I'll signal the Speaker. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: How much is my freedom?]] Go on.
u2017-04-19-47	Take my entire salary.
u2017-04-19-48	Go on, go on. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2017-04-19-49	But I'm still gonna tell you that the COF's report is totally blank. Let's not make a joke. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Paper A4. It's a 12-gauge...]]
u2017-04-19-50	Go on, ma'am.
u2017-04-19-51	How much does it cost to keep my freedom? Tell me! Give me a number. We're gonna put it together, I'm serious. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP. Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties.]] I'm sorry, this is a joke. [[Szabó Timea: Hörcsik showed me a yellow card! Noise and interruptions.]]
u2017-04-19-52	Go on, go on.
u2017-04-19-53	Mr. President, I want my time restored and let me finish.
u2017-04-19-54	I'm not gonna reset it. I'll give you time. Here, go on. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Restore it! He was interrupted in his speech!]]
u2017-04-19-55	This bill is a provocation, but we'll bet on it ourselves. What we want to know is exactly where state and party funds land in this country. They asked for amendments, so they got them. There are amendments submitted by the LMP to which NGOs and which media absorb public funds, as we, besides foreign agents hiding in Fidesz, want to know exactly where the Hungarian taxpayers' money lands in this country. And if you want a historical parallel, then I can bring up the tabloids with this law to about one level that branded people who were honest, hardworking and innocent, and used them for scapegoats. You're doing the same thing as your predecessors. I would like to make it clear to you that if this law goes through Parliament and refuses to negotiate with the opposition in substance, it will not withdraw or establish the transparency rules that we, for example, want in relation to the use of state money, we will turn to the Constitutional Court.
u2017-04-19-56	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Szabó Timea.
u2017-04-19-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here we have heard from the people before us why the bill, which is about to destroy social organizations with axes, is a complete freak. That's why I wouldn't go into the details right now. Especially since we know that this law is not only about civil society organisations, but also about everyone who dares to contradict Viktor Orbán's government. Anyone who dares to think differently than Viktor Orbán, Your Excellency. Who doesn't want to stand by and watch the traff heist, the land heist, the daily hunger of 50,000 children and another half a million deprivations, the lure of the disabled, the imprisonment of homeless people, the labor of nurses, cradle workers, the hospital infections of patients and the total debauchery of children in their education systems. Those who do not want to stand by and watch the monstrous theft campaign that Viktor Orbán, Lőrinc Mészáros, Antal Rogán, Andy Vajna and your other friends are doing with the active walling of Péter Polt. Ladies and gentlemen, This law is just a step towards a total dictatorship disguised as democracy on the road that Viktor Orbán stepped on seven years ago. On the road on which the Népszabadság has already been set up, CEU will be closed, all Hungarian universities and all Hungarian people and communities who want to think and are able to do so. 'Cause what's this station about? List civil society organisations that receive support from abroad. And what is this list about? It is about stigmatizing those who, according to Viktor Orbán, pose a threat to his own power. In a last week's interview, Viktor Orbán said: "Let the poor Hungarians know who they are in Hungary who want to influence politics and public life while serving foreign interests. Well, let us take a look at some of the organisations that Viktor Orbán has designated as serving foreign interests, my fellow Members. Let us first consider the immensely evil Norwegian Fund, which has taken over the power of Viktor Orbán. Really, let's just say a few of them are already on their website, so they're already on a public list of people they support. The Mezőberényi Association of Large Families. Hm! * Be a Christmas Angel too! This one's got support, too. The Peaceful County Association of the Blind and Sensitive. The Association of Gyöngyház Széchenyi Gyöngyház. The Down Association, the organizational support network for Down syndrome. The Shelter Foundation or the Smile Public Benefit Foundation, which supports autistic organizations. Well, these are the big mummies... But let's look at the other big boogeyman, the Open Society Institute. The Council of Disabilities of People's Organizations, Birthplace Public Use Association, Real Pearl Foundation or Watch out for Reank Association! , which supports the education of children studying in disadvantaged communities in the city of Pécs and its surroundings. Now, my fellow Members, these are the organisations on which Mr Orbán said that they are not civil society organisations, but those of international networks in Hungary. Obviously! The blind and weak-sighted, the autistic children's organisations or the organizations helping pregnant mothers to care for pregnant women are all the hungarian deposits of a large, secret international network! I'm serious, fellow Members, you are not normal! [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] All good people throw up on themselves now. This isn't a National Assembly, it's a complete mental institution. [[Moray in the benches of the governing parties. Agnes Kunhalmi: Our biggest mistake is closing OPNI.]] Of course, you do not want to list all organizations, only those that receive more than HUF 7 million in funding, such as the Maltese Charity Service or the Ecumenicals or the Down Syndrome Children Foundation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy's intervention.]] Shame on all of you, fellow Members of Parliament. And especially be ashamed of your boss, Viktor Orbán, who says that the HUF 7 million, which has been allocated to civil society organisations and is already public support is the dangerous, not the Putini nuclear power plant, embedded in secret contracts with Russian credit, which will even be paid by our grandchildren, and which will also deliver our great-grandsons to Russia. Shame on you, Viktor Orbán, who believes that the NGO that helps children learn is a threat to Hungary's independence today, and not to transfer Hungarian data to a Russian server during the latest national consultation! Shame on Viktor Orbán, who believes that the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service is more dangerous than the Russian mobster selling settlement bonds through offshore companies linked to Antal Rogán! Shame on Viktor Orbán for hiding behind the persecution of non-existent enemies and selling Hungary to Vladimir Putin! Because we don't have any doubts, we know exactly what's going on, and you're actively assisting in your chairs. We must not protect Hungary from Brussels, my fellow Members, but from you, Viktor Orbán and Vladimir Putin! [[11.50]] But let us take a moment to see how perfectly Viktor Orbán will implement Vladimir Putin's plan to implement foreign interests against our country. Let's see how Putin used to do that, how he ended the remaining rule of law in Russia in one year. Let us see what we are talking about when we say that Viktor Orbán is licking Vladimir Putin's feet. In 2012, a few months before Putin's re-election, he began to amend the assembly law. On May 10th and June 8th, he signed a law that included 5 thousand rubles, i.e. from approximately HUF 35 thousand to HUF 2 million, an increase in the fine to be imposed for a person who, as an organizer, commits an infringement at a mass event. It wasn't enough to announce a protest anymore, the protests became mandatory, and the public areas were narrowed down. Once convicted of a violation of the law, he can no longer be the organizer of a protest. The law was also tightened by the Russian governing party after the mass demonstrations against Putin became regular from the end of 2011. Hm, um, what familiar fellow Members! Then, a month and a half later, on 29 June, the foreign agent law came before Parliament. You know what was in there? Very interesting. If a NGO receives support from abroad, it must register itself as a foreign agent and indicate on all its materials that it serves foreign interests. If registration is cancelled, there will be a penalty: suspension of activity, freezing of accounts for up to six months, a fine of up to HUF 2 million, and organizations up to HUF 3.5 million, according to the law, all organizations must immediately inform the government of any support received from abroad. After the entry into force of the law, Golos, monitoring the cleanliness of the elections, was punished in April for 360,000 rubles because he did not register as a foreign agent. This Russian legal protection organisation has revealed a number of abuses in previous elections. Well, I wonder when we're gonna step on this road, and we've already stepped on it - when are we gonna do that? Then, on July 29th, Putin signed the Internet Act, which we've heard about. Under the law, the government can put together a list of prohibited websites, which then Russian Internet service providers should simply be banned from the Russian Internet. It doesn't take a court decision to get on the list, so it's just enough for government organizations to decide. There has been a protest against Internet tax, but we know that Viktor Orbán does not give up easily what he has in mind. Then, on July 28, the same year, Putin signed the defamation law: the insulting remarks made in public again by the Russian Btk. He was sanctioned and punished for up to 14 million forints. A separate article provides that if a person slanders or insults a court or a prosecutor, he may also receive a fine of two million rubles. Then at the end of November came the Treason Act, in which virtually everyone who criticized the Russian government was considered a traitor. According to the protesters, the law was obviously good for the punishment of treason against international organisations. Laws have also triggered public action, in the coming months 250 NGOs have been investigated, civil society representatives have been detained - how interesting it is that such a thing happened to Márton Gulyás - political activists have been arrested. How spooky is the resemblance, my fellow Members? Perhaps the difference is that Viktor Orbán is moving a little slower than Putin, not in six months, implementing and implementing these laws, but, let's say, in a year and a half, but let's not have any doubts: if we do not listen, we will not be careful, we will not prevent it, that is exactly what will happen to us. Orbán is still on the road to Putin. But the problem is not only that Viktor Orbán is on the road to Putin, but that Viktor Orbán is also dragging Hungary on this path. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me ask you, is that really what you're sworn to do? When you entered the Fidesz and became Fidesz Members, did you see this in front of you 5-10-20-27 years later? Are you happy that this is happening to the free Hungary that you have fought for? It is not Brussels that must be stopped, my fellow Members, but Viktor Orbán. Viktor Orbán, who made Hungary a free prey for dictators, must be stopped because this Prime Minister is a dream killer. Viktor Orbán is a dream killer, our freedom, the dream killer of our future. But we will not allow it, fellow Members. We will not allow this destruction, this destruction, the total destruction of our dreams! We're gonna get our freedom back. We will replace Viktor Orbán and his government marching towards your dictatorship! And then, after 30 years, you will hear again, "Tovarischi, konyec!" Thank you for listening.
u2017-04-19-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles.
u2017-04-19-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary of the National Assembly by the Government of Hungary, before us, T/14967. He asked for the discussion of the draft law as a nationality item for the following reasons: . Several national minority organisations, associations and foundations receive support for their activities, mainly in the mother country, the annual level of which may be up to the limit laid down in the bill. For this reason, the national minority authorities have indicated to our committee that the legal scope of the new law may also include national minority organisations. In accordance with Article 3 (1) of the Treaty:, the nationalities living in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. The fact that the ethnicities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and are state-creating factors is also declared in the National Creed of the Fundamental Law. The existence of 13 indigenous nationalities living in Hungary is essentially a consequence of the work of the organisations and civil society organisations that they have created and worked well over the past decades. The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. 3. Pursuant to paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Article:. The right of association is a fundamental right of liberty for all, under which everyone has the right to establish or join organisations or communities with others. Under the right of association, natural persons and the purpose of their activities and their founders intend that legal persons and their entities without legal personality may set up and operate organisations. The exercise of the right of association shall be without prejudice to Article C (2) of the Fundamental Law, shall not constitute a criminal offence or a criminal offence, nor shall it prejudice the rights and freedoms of others. Under the right of association, an organisation may be established for the purpose of carrying out any activity which is in accordance with the Fundamental Law and which is not prohibited by law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Taking advantage of the opportunities offered by Hungarian laws, the right of association, the nationalities in Hungary perform their defining tasks for nationalities through civil minority associations, ethnic associations, ethnic foundations, national minority governments. The establishment and functioning of civil society organisations of nationalities are set up by CLXXIX of 2011 on the rights of nationalities. law strengthens, the legislator declares the establishment of a nationality association. The Law 2. Paragraph 15 of the Act defines the concept of a minority association, according to which: the association of nationalities, which is directly linked to the cultural autonomy of nationality, is the association of nationalities. [[12.00]] The same law also provides for the right to use certain rights of nationality civil society organisations established in the settlement in the municipalities where persons belonging to a particular nationality are resident but not established in the municipality. The basic tasks of national minority organisations include, inter alia, defining their local holidays, writing out applications, starting proposals, setting up scholarships, setting up partnerships, concluding cooperation agreements with organisations from foreign countries and domestic co-organisations and social communities. It is a clear fact that civil society organisations of nationalities also play an important role in shaping public opinion, as is the fact that it is true, in particular, and in the case of nationalities with a mother country, that they receive operating costs and other public tasks from a foreign source, funds to support the maintenance of institutions, sports associations, youth or older organisations engaged in media activities or performing public education and cultural tasks. The T/14967. Bill No. 1 According to § (1) of the Treaty, the definition of an organisation supported from abroad could also be applied to associations of nationalities, civil society associations and their foundations. As stated in the second paragraph of the same paragraph, aid shall be deemed to be granted irrespective of its title to all financial or other financial benefits, directly or indirectly, originating from abroad, which, individually or in aggregate, reaches CXXXVI of 2007 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in a tax year. Act No. 6 (paragraph 1 (b) twice the amount, i.e. HUF 7.2 million. The efforts of ethnic communities living in Hungary, the activities carried out to preserve their language and culture, are supported by foreign organisations, mother countries and organisations from other countries. Its typical form is the support of assistance through the mediation of budgetary institutions, public education institutions, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools and ethnic NGOs. This often takes the form of not money, but, for example, group rooms, furniture in classrooms, books, and now more audiovisual devices, IT equipment parks, and sometimes school equipment. Foreign funds that support the economic convergence of certain ethnic communities can also be mentioned if, for example, the mother country considers the development of national minority communities in our country to be important. Whether a kindergarten group room or the furniture of a classroom may exceed the amount specified in the bill, but this may also be true for IT or digital devices. Although there are few concrete examples of major economic investments, they cannot be considered excluded, even T/14967. Bill No. 1 In addition to the exceptions set out in paragraph 3 of Section 3. As a source from the European Union, they can also receive and receive funding through a budgetary body from NGOs, associations, foundations, which is a clear source of funding under the proposed legislation and its management in terms of transparency. The basic activities of civil society organisations and foundations of nationalities living in Hungary are exclusively for the survival of nationalities, for the preservation of the values created by nationalities, while the citizens of the country are limited to work for the benefit of persons belonging to nationalities, while respecting the laws of the Hungarian State. Thus, their interests in this way cannot be shaped or exercised by foreign forces, nor can they exploit them for their own political purposes. Support for nationalities should not be suitable for money laundering, but also for money flows of opaque origin in connection with terrorist financing. At the same time, the Parliament's Committee of Nationalities of Hungary and the ethnic communities it represents are of the view that T/14967. Draft bill No 1 on transparency of organisations supported from abroad Paragraph 4 of the Act, which defines which associations, foundations, religious organizations or other organisations are not covered by the law, shall be added to the following points: (d) CLXXIX 2011. Law No. 2 (e) the 2011 CLXXIX. Law No. 2 For ethnic associations and foundations falling within the scope of Section 15. In the hope that parliamentary parties, ladies and gentlemen with the right to vote in Parliament, consider the proposal of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities acceptable, our committee did not make any substantive comments on the further paragraphs of the draft bill. Hvala za posornost. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-19-60	Thank you very much for Erika Kissné Köles' speech on Slovenian ethnicity. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: Can't I have the floor as a presenter?]]
u2017-04-19-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Hollik's Soros recipe launched a two-minute comment here. He's listed our serial recipe. He told you to buy the experts, show them to be independent. The Centre for Fundamental Rights, the Nézőpont Intézet, the experts on the news who want to be presented as independent are all in line with this parameter. Buy the media. - TV2, MTV, Echo, former Simicska empire. Create so-called civil self-acting groups. Coordinate these PCCs and use such ones as the CFF to help and support your activities, hiding behind others, not accepting the opinion - Magyar Vizsla in the previous campaign period. So it seems to me that Fidesz has actually learned the serial recipe. So, if we use your language, then you operate on the basis of the serial recipe here in Hungary, and even because your leaders were bought by György Soros - since they were former scholarships - you can also say that you were agents of George Soros as Fidesz and KDNP. And I think it is a correct definition, because you say we are supported by György Soros and we are behind György Soros. No, please, György Soros stood behind you on numerous occasions: when you were created, you financed your number one leader, Viktor Orbán. This is why I understand that suddenly you are facing this very hard time, but you can say that Fidesz has actually been an agent organization of George Soros since its Genesis or early Genesis, and you have learned the serial recipe. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Well, that's how it was! Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2017-04-19-62	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gulyás Gergely, Vice-President.
u2017-04-19-63	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. The author should respond at the end, and it is also possible to do so in so far as Iván Vitányi is my fellow Member after my departure... [[István! Dr. István Apáti: Same floor, different room! Defiance. Szabó Timea: The work of Soros!]] Excuse me. I apologize to István Vitányi separately and many times for this. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] For slipping your tongue. So you will continue to represent the authors after my departure. [[Attila Mesterházy: Won't you stay here until the end?]] However, I would like to respond briefly to what has been said, at least to what is worth answering. [[12.10]] In this respect, it is the easiest thing to respond to what was said by the woman who spoke on behalf of the minority committee: in part, I also indicated in the presentation's exposé that we would accept this observation, so we will support the amendment on our part. Although Mrs Bernadett Szél hasn't been present in the expo period... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That is not true of course!]] If he was present, he wasn't paying attention. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. An intervention from the Fidesz ranks: It's getting better! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We drank your words!]] And in this case, the situation is not better, because together, it cannot be true that it was here, and it was paying attention, because then it would not have asked me to take account of the part concerning EU funding, because I said in the exposé that I consider it justified not to make a distinction between the assessment of aid from the EU and the criticisms raised. So I don't know which is better, Madam Group leader, to decide whether you weren't present or not, but then it's a shame to ask me if I'm going to tell you in the presentation. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Why didn't you write this?]] We will also support this amendment. What is, by the way, the left - to distinguish between the rightful appeal of Jobbik and the speech by the left-wing or left-green opposition and Jobbik - [[Szabó Timea: Expired!]] and Green Speakers [[Szabó Timea: Mr President, the two minutes are over! Intercoms from the ranks of independents who took over Jobbik.]] I think that there was a therapeutic nature of this debate, which, by the way, there is nothing wrong with. [[Attila Mesterházy: Time!]] It's okay if it's... [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Sit down! The president's ringing the bell.]] I didn't get a two-minute speech. I apologize. The author... It is not a problem if my fellow Members...
u2017-04-19-64	Mr. Vice President, please continue.
u2017-04-19-65	It is okay for my fellow Members to know the rules of the house, they have been working in the House for three years. But according to the previous rules of the house, the author could speak at any time in the debate.
u2017-04-19-66	Out of line.
u2017-04-19-67	Out of line. That's what I want to live with now. This has been the case since 1994, and my fellow Members can slowly learn these rules. [[István Szávay: It's just weird that you don't live with him!]] As far as the left-wing and green-wing speeches are concerned, I can say that this was therapeutic in nature. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Tell me who handed you this bill.]] I am aware of my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, of his work on brakes and counterweights, and I am honoured by the fact that he has provided this to me in a book, in which there is a moody disagreement between us on these matters. Another issue is that a flexible interpretation of the regulatory framework can be used in any dispute. But it's not all about brakes or counterweights, or if it is. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Unfortunately! 'Cause I don't!]] then, by the way, it's just... [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: It's long gone!]] it means strengthening the brakes and the counterweights, if we know exactly who they're getting funding from. And for this reason, after numerous NGOs have come up here, which no one has supported from abroad, but by the way, they receive indirect support from the government or from public funds, Congresswoman Timea Szabó even mentioned party foundations, I would just like to point out that the fact and amount of the Fidesz Party Foundation's grant agreements, the grant agreement has been published for public, accessible, special data request. Therefore, the public is fully assured in this respect. I hope that is the case with other party foundations as well. We don't want anything else with this bill, we don't want to brand anyone. Just as we do not think that receiving support from the Fidesz Party Foundation or funding from the Socialist Party Foundation would be stigmatisation, we want to ensure that this fact is made public. And as it is justified and correct that, following a much broader definition of public interest data, it is known to everyone, can be understood, and if, by the way, a public body fails to comply in a very inappropriate way, it is not only a sanction that you can enforce this in a court of law, but that it is even a sanction that, otherwise, a criminal complaint may be filed for concealing public interest data. There is practice in this, so I think that there are sharp, strong sanctions to make public money accessible. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: For example, the MNB...]] So I don't see why the same principle is being enforced in the other case. And here I would like to point out that you may find the fact that foreign aid is negative, and I do not even hide that there is someone in the Fidesz fraction who considers it negative, by the way. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Then why are you in the line?]] But that's part of the freedom of expression. My fellow Member, Szabó, obviously sympathizes with the organisations, or I think he sympathizes with the organisations to which George Soros gives significant support. [[Szabolcs Szabó: You said no problem, then what? Szabó Timea: Szabó Timea: Szabadságítássítődése: Szabó, Blinds, Széchenyi látók...]] But you have to read the bill. There is no negative rating in this respect. [[Szabó Timea: Then why are you in the line?]] It is within the scope of freedom of expression that my fellow Member Mesterházy mentions organisations that receive money from the Fidesz Party Foundation or even from the Hungarian State, and he grades them. You can classify the same organisations and other organisations. In the same way, those who receive money from Russia, they are also covered by this regulation, this has been said as an accusation, and everyone has the same right to qualify for the right to receive money from George Soros in the framework of freedom of expression. But this proposal is only about publicity. So if you do not have a debate with the principle of transparency, then I understand that all the frustrations of the last seven years, which you consider to be inappropriate, are listed here, but this bill does not have anything to do with it. [[Dr. György Bárándy: This is the result!]] And finally, if my fellow Member Bárándy is speaking during my speech, I would like to respond specifically to the fact that I consider the accusations of relations with Russia differently from those opposition parties. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: More facts!]] who were not in government before 2010. But the fact that my fellow Member Bárándy accuses me of cynicism, which is not just not like me, but I don't remember saying anything in this bill. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] especially in the expo, which would have been cynical. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was talking to the half-smile.]] And then he talks about working-parastic power, and I think he's familiar, as a representative of the MSZMP... [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Why? Ágnes Kunhalmi: What are you a representative of? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not his name from 90!]] - Speaking of working-parastic power as a Member of the Parliament of the MSZP, I am sorry that I mentioned the legal predecessor instead of the successor, and then he mentions what an outrageous law was adopted in Russia in 2004, for which I said in the expozee that it was not an example for us in Russia. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Same process.]] and I strongly condemn the way in which social organisations in Russia are otherwise harassed, and then he talks about the Russian law of 2004, so I apologize, not the Prime Minister who supported the dog Toto in the tiny mansion in 2006, but the Prime Minister who supported and voted for you. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] We were not the ones who emphasized the closeness and importance of the relationship with Russia year after year after the 2004 law... [[Dr. Szél Bernadett: Péter Szijjártó on Friday! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I'm sorry, I'm not saying... - I just want those unfair accusations... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: When were we going to close the university? The president's ringing the bell.]] So there's no doubt about it, Bernadett Wind. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We didn't say it, the civilians!]] I have to tell you the truth that just because she is present in a debate does not mean that she listens to what I am saying, because I did not say that relations with Russia would not otherwise be in the interests of Hungary, because, for example, we know that in some form [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Yes, we know that. You're an agent! You've been working on your...]] let's say the security of energy supply cannot be guaranteed without Russia. And I don't have a problem with other governments knowing that. [[Attila Mesterházy: Did you criticize him then?]] But it is because my fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, talks about the law that was passed in Russia in 2004, while the Prime Minister, who supported him, maintained the greatest friendship, then received the Russian President in his private home. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: But they did not attack citizens and civilians! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] I'm sorry, but this kind of double standard [[Interviews from the ranks of MSZP and Fidesz. Agnes Kunhalmi: You made the law! The president's ringing the bell.]] that - and that my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, should not feel offended, I even said at the beginning that I would make a difference between them. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You can't explain this!]] I find it difficult to accept it, even if Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi yells at us when we ask for the sins of Ferenc Gyurcsány on the MSZP. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He wasn't a congressman then either! Ágnes Kunhalmi: I wasn't a congressman then either! They're double standards! The president's ringing the bell.]] But the fact that Ágnes Kunhalmi was not a Member, I do not know whether the Hungarian Parliament had any advantage or disadvantage at the time. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz. Dr. László Varga: Say something funny. Oh, my God, you're so good. We're going to praise you.]] I don't want to judge you in hindsight, but I just want to say that Ágnes Kunhalmi was in that faction in 2014, which, in turn, is this Prime Minister. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi:...raised on civilians and Hungarians! The president's ringing the bell.]] He supported it. So as regards the comments on the content: I do not expect Ms Agnes Kunhalmi to read the bill [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You have become a populist... Interviews from MSZP so.rai.]] I am even less looking forward to you understanding that there is nothing else in the bill than that we want the publicity of subsidies, just as it also provided for companies supported by the State in the framework of public interest data, in the case of foreign subsidies. And by the way, everyone may have an opinion on how, in what direction, this circle needs to be increased, but I think it is especially right that Parliament supports the principle of transparency. [[12.20]] Finally, with regard to Jobbik's speech, I do not think it fair for Jobbik to say that my fellow Member is taking part in the five-party consultation, that he is indicating his general comment on codification errors, and then, when I indicate that if the written document were to be handed over, we would take this into account, he would say that he is not willing to do so, because the bill is generally so wrong. We sat there, even a colleague is present in the Chamber, who can testify to this, but the representatives of the parties present can also testify to this. After that, you'll be asking me here that we're not open to taking into account your codification proposals. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He specifically said that you lied!]] We're fully open to this. Once again, my fellow Member should first discuss it with his own faction after he has not sat there. On request, they didn't hand over the document that was in front of you, from which the codification errors were listed. That's what happened. I am open to the fact that we are not doing this here in front of this House, and I accept it privately if my fellow Member apologises, but that was the case. I would like to point out that we are still open to taking into account the codification clarifications, but what they refused to give to us on request should not be taken into account. In general, I am pleased that Jobbik supports the principle of transparency. We will also take into account the proposal made by Jobbik on the issue of nationality, as the committee of nationalities has also done so. As far as charity is concerned, we are also open to any change in charitable activity that clearly defines this sphere of activity, adding that, after I do not see the nature of the stigma, it is not necessarily offensive for a charitable organisation to comply with such a registration obligation once a year. But if we can find a codification solution - we have not yet found it, but if we have managed to find it with the help of Szabó Timea - then we are open to neglecting this type of registration requirement for charitable organisations as well. So in the case of these three circles, EU grants, national and charitable organisations, we are completely open. And by the way, in general, let's say that if we weren't in this hysterical atmosphere, we'd be arguing with each other. [[Dr. István Apáti: Who created this atmosphere?]] then even the critics of the government would agree that it is absolutely not detrimental to the functioning of Hungarian public life if the funding of those involved in the formation of public life is known. It should also be known from the state side... [[Szabó Timea: This is known in front of everyone! It's on the website!]] But he didn't know me. I said at the very beginning that there were two options, but I am afraid that my fellow Member was not here at the beginning of the debate. [[Szabó Timea: But I was here!]] So there are two options. If one conducts a double bookkeeping, these data are still available from the accounts - if one searches for the accounts - today. If one is not obligated to conduct double bookkeeping - public benefit organisations are obliged to keep double bookkeeping, but most non-profits are not obliged to do so - there is, however, no single contact between sponsors and donors. I still refuse to see, whatever domestic and international hysteria you create, or contribute to creating this hysteria, that it is in the interest of all normal, decent and well-meaning public figures not to keep secrets between civil society organisations on these issues, but to make them known. Thank you very much for your comments so far, and thank you very much for allowing me to respond prematurely. My fellow Member, István Vitányi, will further represent the authors. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President Gulyás. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2017-04-19-69	Thank you very much. Congressman Gulyás, I wasn't talking about codification problems. I don't know what you're saying, I'm going to look into it, and I certainly believe you, but I didn't talk about it, but about the proposals we made in substance, which I said here in my speech as a speaker: nationalities, sports and religious organisations, deadlines, aid organisations, their inclusion and inclusion in the law, and the extension of transparency to Hungarian organisations. That's what I'm talking about, and that's what you've been communicating with. But it's still going somewhere. What doesn't go away is the unscrupulousness you've done here, Congressman Vitányi. If you're here, be a man when you have to look me in the eye, not when you're in your paper and you're reading the lies that Árpád Habony put in your hand. You were at the committee meeting yesterday, weren't you, Congressman? [[Dr. István Vitányi: Yes.]] You're the vice president of the committee. You were one of the authors. Did Jobbik vote for the inclusion of this law in the series or not? [[Dr. István Vitányi: He voted for it.]] Then why are you lying about us voting against the law? Here he stands up as the author and lies that we voted against the law and that he is here for ten minutes. Stop it! That's unscrupulous! [[Dr. István Vitányi: Did I say that?]] Yes, you did, Congressman. Be man enough to stand up and (a) at least apologize, (b) if not, at least tell me why you lied. Why do you lie about such a matter in public in front of Parliament? ! And let me draw your attention to one more problem, which, unfortunately, has just been left out of my keynote speech. This is that there is a big problem with this proposal, and that is that it is very easy to play. I would just like to argue why transparency should also be extended to domestic funding. The story is very simple. If we are afraid of György Soros - now let us ask or simplify this question so much - or anyone else who is a Hungarian citizen can come here to Hungary, with his own money he will create a foundation in Hungary, and then he will start supporting goals that he wants, influencing politics. Then this money no longer constitutes foreign support, György Soros does not need to support migrant support organisations in order to influence politics, to create a foundation in Hungary as a Hungarian citizen from its private property, and to influence politics from it. This is the only reason why it is worth considering the extension of transparency at this level. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-70	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Mr Bernadett Wind for two minutes.
u2017-04-19-71	Unfortunately, Gergely Gulyás has left Parliament, but then I will ask our fellow Member, Vitányi, whose first name I do not dare to give aside, to answer the question I raise here. The Data Protection Authority has sent its opinion on this bill, which actually includes what we have submitted in the amendment proposal. In particular, the Commissioner suggests that the scope of data disclosure could be further broadened, namely the transparency of support from domestic corporate, state or institutional political spheres, because he believes that lobbying interests, government interests and possibly political propaganda steel can continue to prevail, and therefore information on organisations financed by economic operators and organisations supported by governments or political parties should also be made public. I would like to ask Fidesz and KDNP if they will take the recommendation of NAIH into account and do what the Commissioner asks. I would like to say further - I do not know how much money this will cost me - that I have two papers in my hand. One is the COF's account and its public utility annex, which is a large piece of zero, nothing; no source of support, no duration, no amount, nothing at all. And here's the other one that has an international source in it, so it's marked. They would explain to me why this law is necessary professionally, because I can see that now the medical text is that you only have to look at it professionally. There you are, it's ticked. Then why do they want to do so many different things about it? I honestly don't understand why if something works, you want to do something else. But if we are going to talk like this, then tell us whether the CF and all other organisations will be transparent from tomorrow or from the moment this law enters into force. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is our amendment, and you don't have to bother, it's enough to vote for it. We have tabled an amendment on which civil society organisations or media receive public money. Let's look at state and party fund subsidies, see where these public funds land. Are you open to this?
u2017-04-19-72	Thank you, Madam Group leader. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Szabó Timea for two minutes.
u2017-04-19-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I also wanted to respond to Gulyás Gergő, who left the room. My fellow Member has spoken for a long time on transparency. I would like to say two things in this regard. On the one hand, grants can already be found on the website from both the donor and the donor. On the other hand, sports and ecclesiastical organizations so popular with Fidesz have been excluded from the scope of the law. Obviously, we know that there are as many soccer organizations as possible to support, and Zoltán Balog's favorite church organizations can live happily ever after. However, there is a problem with the fact that church organizations have been excluded from the law. What if an Islamic fundamentalist organization is active here in Hungary? It does not fall within the scope of the law, so you are free to engage in terrorism-related activities. This means that you, my fellow Members, and Viktor Orbán, are protecting terrorist organisations and supporting them with this law. Civil society organisations that already carry out charitable or any other meaningful activity pose a threat to this country, but potentially terrorist organisations. You have removed these from the scope of the law. You are putting Hungary in jeopardy, and this whole law could pose a national security risk to the country. Think about it again. I do not think that Viktor Orbán would want to take on the stamp to support terrorist organisations and terrorist acts in Hungary. Thank you. [[12.30]]
u2017-04-19-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. No more two-minute speakers. We now have a preliminary speaker, Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP.
u2017-04-19-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate has come to the point where it is time to turn to Szilárd Németh. Despite our colleague, Szilárd Németh's education as a librarian, he doesn't usually hide behind all kinds of complicated legal practices, his reasoning is always crystal clear and simple as the woods. So let us recall what he said about civil society organisations not so long ago. He said that these organisations should be repressed by all means, and that they should be removed, and that now has the international opportunity to elect the new American president. As for the increase in the international situation, Szilárd Németh was probably wrong about this, but in terms of Fidesz-KDNP's intentions, he spoke as crystal clear as few of your factions; no one specifically spoke today. Let me be perfectly clear: despite any legal action, you now want to clean up these organizations, brand them in the first place, so that you can continue on this path. The argument is very strange, and it has also been said in today's debate, when you look at a method that you use about internationally, and you say that: but this is what we have in America - we have heard it before. How many times have we heard about various legislative proposals or measures that undermine the rights of democratic institutions, but that's how it works in France, that's how it works in Belgium, that's how it works in Germany. They sought to find a specific example from all countries, which would have supported their action or bill at the time. Yeah, but you're actually acting exactly like Victor Frankenstein. Victor Frankenstein has decided if this story is familiar to you, to create a new type of man. He did. Each part of this new type of person was previously found in someone else's body part. Each part of the body was real, the arms, the legs, the trunk, the head, the neck, the nose, the eyes, the eyebrows, everything. It was all the way it was, a freak, so much so that Victor Frankenstein was disgusted by it. This is exactly what you do now when you create a freak with different selected legal parts here in Hungary. This freak, your system, is called Viktor's system for the sake of simplicity. So, what's this Viktor system like? In this Viktor system, every footman's organization, every footman's media, every respectable member of every footman is dear to you. But those who are not with you, in your opinion, are against you. You are the enemy of everything and everyone, your enemy is free thinking, free education, free expression, free action. With all their tools available and always trying to expand this toolbox, they are working against free action, generally freedom. They want to put their hands on all the money, and to do that, they think they need to shut up all the free mouths that could tell the world. At the moment, various civil society organisations have been selected: Ökotárs Earlier; but we could say the Helsinki Committee, the Company for Freedom Rights, Transparency International Hungary and the Energiaklub. They could say the Eötvös Károly Institute, the Krétakör Foundation, the Roma Education Found, the Background Company, the Hungarian Women's Association - it would be a long line. In the footman's media, they find ample examples of exactly who Szilárd Németh was thinking of, and whose interests you are now acting against this bill. Dear House, Quite simply, this system is a freak. But we're not just gonna let that happen. We know very well that you are moving step by step. Now it's the CSOs' turn. Now the free activity of civil society organisations stings their eyes. By the way, interestingly, while visiting protestors arriving by plane, it does not bother you that Poles have been bused here to celebrate Viktor Orbán, say, for a celebration on 15 March. By the way, how do you feel when you use government and government funds to support organisations, political parties across the border, and, of course, organisations and political parties that are kind to you? However, how would you consider this activity from the perspective of neighbouring countries, if you dig your eyes in Hungary, that they support civil society organisations that are otherwise serving legitimate social needs, sire, even from abroad? By the way, that's a lot less for domestic taxpayers. So Viktor's system is a freak. A freak that, step by step, narrows the freedom to occupy, step by step, the media, if you can; which, step by step, grinds the various organisations, otherwise independent of state power, the prosecutor's office, or tries to occupy part of the courts with this staff policy. Right now, by cleaning up civil society organisations, for the first time stigmatizing them, to quote Szilárd Németh's words, they see the next step to be taken. You don't have to keep your mouth shut. It's not the hands that move freely, ladies and gentlemen. You need to hold your hands so that you can't bring such billings to this House. Never again should they have the majority to undermine democratic institutions, freedom of expression, freedom of expression, freedom of action, freedoms in general! We're gonna tear this system down. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-19-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. He announced his intention to speak in advance, István Ikotity, LMP. You have the floor.
u2017-04-19-77	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Continuing with the autopsy of this unrated proposal by my fellow Members, the question arises why the scope of the regulation does not cover certain types of organisations, such as religious organisations, sports associations or non-profit-making companies. If we take it seriously that the proposal does not want to violate the freedom of association and the autonomy of civil society organisations, then this is highly discriminatory. The distinction is not based on a drop of objective and reasonable grounds. Moreover, the argument in the proposal's explanatory statement on the difficulty in financing terrorism highlights the fact that the main basis for foreign financing of Islamic fundamentalist terrorism, which is a serious threat in Europe today, is precisely certain radical religious organisations. Where is the Prime Minister, who was discussing in his apocalyptic public radio interview this weekend, that when it comes to the safety of Hungarian people, there is no excuse? As with civil society organisations, the exclusion of non-profit companies that can be registered for public benefit and which do not continue to distribute profits to their members is particularly bad because they would be left out of the list, for example, by the Law and Truth Nonprofit Ltd., more commonly known as the Centre for Fundamental Rights, which, like the CÖF, essentially embodies everything this lying bill imposes on so-called organisations supported from abroad. The difference is that they do indeed operate under the cover of civility and professionalism and indeed merely as mouthpieces, and, as such, instead of pursuing Community objectives, they have a net government propaganda. [[12.40]] Now, these should be blacklisted as soon as possible by the proposal. There is probably no reason in principle, but it is also a significant problem that political parties are also left out of blacklisting. The reason for this is likely to be that a party cannot initially accept a contribution from a foreign state, organisation or non-Hungarian citizen, but the benefits subject to notification under the proposal are much wider than the direct financial contribution prohibited by the party law. For example, if a Russian bank found a loan to one of the Hungarian political parties, it would not base the rating of the organisation supported from abroad, while the borrowing of an association or a foundation from the same bank would. Shouldn't the proposal at least be coherent with itself? The last exception, which seems mysterious at first, in the proposal, concerns associations and foundations which do not qualify as civil society organisations. This is probably where scientific, educational, research and educational foundations that help the parties operate, and under their common name, the proposal was tailored to party foundations. Although these foundations typically do not collect donations from private organisations, their task is to use and donate budget support specifically to them. However, cooperation with similar foundations of European party families is an exception, as this Fidesz Association for Civil Hungary is an excellent example. Since the establishment of the Party Foundation in 2003, the Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung of the German Christian Democrats has been a regular supporter of the Fidesz Party Foundation, for example, with an annual average of around HUF 10 million between 2006 and 2012, and even with so many spicy details from the 2012 report in the register of civil society organisations, the costs of the KAS meeting were partly borne by KAS as part of an HUF 8.3 million grant in 2012. What cynicism it is for you to discuss the omnipotence of national sovereignty by eating scones from foreign money! A single citizen can be completely confused by this. Is there good support from abroad and bad support from abroad now? Aid that endangers or does not endanger sovereignty? Is good foreign funding a good-for-good-use organisation and a bad-for-nothing organisation? Unfortunately, the answer is yes, because in the narrative of the government, everything and the opposite can be imagined as dictated by their current interests.
u2017-04-19-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Péter Kónya, an independent Member.
u2017-04-19-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow members of the Government who are understaffed! You are systematically doing everything you can to silence, prevent dissidents and critics of government policy in our country. An example of this was the lex CEU law and the law on transparency of organisations supported from abroad that we are discussing today. I'm starting to feel more and more in Cambodia when I'm forced to negotiate such legislative proposals with you in this Parliament, where during the '70s during the Pol Pot regime, people were arrested on the street because they wore glasses and then tortured and executed because they were apparently intellectuals. You seem to be going against everything I've thought about democracy in the past. In the framework of the national cooperation system, you have recently sent out another national questionnaire for billions of voters. Among other things, such an issue has been formulated:. More and more organisations supported from abroad are operating in Hungary with the aim of interfering in our country's internal affairs in an opaque way. Their operation could jeopardise our independence. What do you think Hungary should do? With such a question, you suggest to our fellow citizens that these NGOs are spy organizations that betray our country in exchange for support from abroad. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You are aware that this insult letter is not even good for toilet paper, let alone knowing what people are thinking about this matter. After all, you are so not interested in the opinion of the people that they did not even wait for the questionnaires to arrive or even process the answers given in the questionnaire, and this law has already been submitted here. We should have at least waited for us if we had spent billions of public money waiting for people to answer this otherwise unanswerable question, because you have already given your own opinion on this issue, and you know very well that no one will be able to give a meaningful answer. In my view, what the name of the law and the title of the law say, namely that the transparency and transparency of the management of civil society organisations must be ensured, there is no problem with that. However, the problem is that you also know that there is a problem not only with organisations that are supported from abroad, but also with the transparency of certain civil society organisations that have been squandered from Hungary, which my fellow Members have already referred to. At the same time, you know very well that NGOs that receive support from abroad in our country pay particular attention to ensuring that their operation and management are transparent, precisely so that they cannot be attacked for their activities, which, by the way, helps a lot of people's lives and work, and how much money they receive as a subsidy and for what purposes, can otherwise be found transparently on the website of each such organisation. However, your aim with this law is not to make the management of these organisations more transparent, but to brand them, to undermine public confidence in them, thus making their operation impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, One more step from here is that prostitutes will have to wear scarlet letters on medieval samples, while our Jewish compatriots will have to wear yellow stars. Think about what laws you're putting before Parliament. Over the last few weeks, tens of thousands of people have protested, protested against the adoption of this law, and yet I have no doubt that my fellow government Members, ignoring the will and opinion of the people, will vote in favour of this law. At the same time, I am expressing my hope that, in the days or the near future, a law will be passed in which entrepreneurs will have to state that if they make a website or a business card, it should be written that he, for example, is an entrepreneur rich in public money, I am thinking of Lőrinc Mészáros, or a small entrepreneur with EU support. Then let them be branded, fellow Members. By the way, you are playing with this bill, because a few weeks ago, I asked each minister a written question, in which I wanted to know how the Hungarian government and the members of the Hungarian government and their wallets support organisations and foreign organizations from across borders with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. From this, the answers show that they support Hungarian cross-border organisations with serious tens of billions, and I myself do not dispute the need for this. However, have you considered, fellow Members, that if a similar law is passed on a Hungarian sample, whether in Slovakia, Romania or Ukraine, then what arguments will you be able to use to protect Hungarian organisations from being branded there, in that country, in the same way as you would otherwise like to label NGOs financed or supported by foreign aid? With reference to what my opposition fellow Members have said, to the popular opposition on the street and to the above I have said, I call on you to withdraw this bill and to throw this bill into the trash heap of history itself, because it is where it belongs; if you vote in favour, then you too will be there. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-04-19-80	Thank you very much. No one has made a two-minute contribution, so I give the floor to the pre-notified speaker, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP. [[12.50]]
u2017-04-19-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Fidesz has already begun its activities as a civil society organisation in the shadow of a far-off but still strong party of state. In many cases, his work was supported by unexpected outside actors who gave Fidesz young people knowledge and money, it is enough to think only of George Soros as a kind of external goodwill, without whom the leaders of Fidesz could not have become essentially nothing. In the shadow of the state party, in some places, they worked under stress, observed them, made their work difficult. I see they're pretty burned up, 'cause they're doing the same thing now. The then Fidesz looked to the future and built his own legend. During the first decade after the change of regime, the party sought its place, changed its electoral camp, and from now on it began a more healthy government than it is presenting today. Then somehow it started to rot from the inside, from the top. He was poisoned by fear, fear of power, willfulness and greed. The leaders of Fidesz are increasingly overwhelmed by darkness, fear, hatred and desire for money, and now, I add, escape from justice. Now it seems that they have slept with powers, if you will, the dark, barbaric leaders of the East, who infect the thinking of man, who have no respect for diversity, diversity, individual will, or human dignity, who know only the preservation of power, the world of domination and feudalism, and who are in every effort to expand and maintain it. These Eastern gentlemen's tools include flattery, extortion, promise of fabulous fortunes and, of course, a referendum spiced with fraud, media occupation, distortion of the electoral system, all the tools that Fidesz is now completely addicted to, while these Eastern leaders and Viktor Orbán look down on you to the extent that it is almost embarrassing to watch. The Fidesz has become what it was created against. CSOs, an enthusiastic group, became a repressive dictatorship, a servant of a greater power. In this worldview Hungary is a feudal estate, a given gift area on which the smaller dictator can collect money and suppress the people who live here if he fulfills the will of the great lords. This is the world this country has seen, and we know this world. This is how the Hungarian People's Republic worked in the shadow of the Soviet Union. Orbán's testimony here within these walls five years ago, when he said that my fight was not with dictatorship, but with the leaders of dictatorship. Well, that's very clear. But tragedy happens before our eyes. Fidesz has become what he organized himself against. He betrayed that idea, the faith that created it. Some people recognize it sooner, some people recognize it a little later, but the point is always the same. If you betray what you were created for, sooner or later more people will know than others have ever noticed. The law for the registration of civilians has so far been used only in eastern demagogic regimes. For example, Russia, as many people have said before me, but unfortunately this is the same as Netanjahu's government, and we have seen this in other smaller Asian regimes. In trying to introduce this in Europe, here in Western civilization, it is the case that they make fun of themselves. I'm sure this campaign will work for a smaller community, and I'm sure they'll be eager to believe you for more and more lies, they'll be eager to push new enemies, and maybe they won't ask you for a while, if the Civil Alliance Forum and the National Civil Fund are the main sponsors of the Fidesz protests, then how can we make any laws against civilians at all? I'm sure there'll be some Fidesz commitments who won't ask you that question until the election. But are they the majority, or are they the majority? Is that enough people for you to win elections in 2018 too? Well, it's not enough, and that's your fucking problem. There are not enough, and this seed is now asking you more and more questions. What's even more important is whether it's worth destroying hundreds of thousands of people, pushing them into hatred, feeding them enemies to keep you in power. Is it also worth betraying their most loyal supporters by creating all kinds of external enemies for them after seven years of government? György Soros does not organize against Hungary and does not organise mass immigration through civilians. Sensitive people simply don't believe you're trying to smuggle hundreds of thousands of civilian activist refugees across the border dealing with education, health screening, environmental protection, women's equality and study writing. What are you smuggling it through, fellow Members? In your notebooks and your baskets for underprivileged children? It is simply incredibly embarrassing to hear such nonsense from the Hungarian government's propaganda commando. Well, that's ridiculous. The civilians attacked by you are taking on tasks from the Hungarian state that the state has not been able to carry out, and I add, since 2010, tasks that the state has not wanted to perform quite simply. Do you think that the enemy and foreign agent, for example, is the Pearl Foundation, which pulls the poorest children out of the dump, while you have dropped 43,000 children out of public education without a primary education degree? ! Do you call those who hold schools and art schools for the poorest children to replace the state? ! Where do you see migrants, for God's sake? ! You think the Bibo College is an agent organization now. Perhaps his name is familiar, which today teaches children in Kiskunhalas and guard with the support of George Soros' foundation. You think he's an enemy and an agent of the Birth House Association, preparing women for childbirth. You can't be so stupid, so mean and unscrupulous, my fellow Members of the House of Fidesz. Yes, but unfortunately, yes. They're that unscrupulous, and they're even more evil. Hungarians are instigated against Hungarians while schools rot, hospitals rot, young people leave this country, there is not enough wages and there is not enough bread on the table. How do you get better health care and better education from enlisting and attacking civilians? Answer that question, press a two-minute button. How will there be more wages, better health services, and once again I ask you, more knowledge, a better life for the Hungarians with the attack of civilians, the attack of CEU and serialization? Answer this, fellow Members of the House of Fidesz. Our real enemy now is hate. The real enemy is cynicism, the world of anything. The real enemy is the betrayal Fidesz commits against its own voters and the country. The fact that they provide the country to repressive powers for decades, including fidesz children, who would be as miserable to live in a country that is as miserable as everyone else. That's why you need to be replaced, which is why you're going to fail in 2018. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-04-19-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Szabolcs Szabó is an independent Member. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems to me that we are getting to the end of the debate, because there are not many who wish to speak to it from the pro-government side. I hope they change their minds. I can't help but notice that there's no one in the room, as far as I can tell. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes!]] I said original referral. Congressman Vitányi - and it turns out that even the members of the Fidesz have not yet known each other's names - joined afterwards, obviously because he had received the task, but Gergely Gulyás had long gone, Szilárd Németh and Lajos Kósa have not even been seen throughout the debate. [[13.00]] That's what I'm wondering. It is not necessarily the opposition representatives to be respected, but let's say the electorate and - I don't know - the Parliament itself as an institution, or, if nothing else, Parliament as a building should be honoured by the fact that if you put forward a bill, you will be kind enough to sit through the debate and, let us say, express your opinion. And, uh, he joined up afterwards, and it was up to him to do that. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is also interesting in this whole story that such fantastic preparations preceded the submission of the bill, that Gergely Gulyás, the petitioner, had made a definite statement a few days before the submission, that he did not participate in it, when he was on 444 - parentheses, Soros, parentheses closed - when the text of the bill was published on 444, and then he told himself that, well, he was not involved in it, and then it turned out afterwards that he was either involved or told that you were involved in it, and that he was given this fantastic task of starting the debate here as an author. Then there are some other interesting stories, such as Congressman Hollik, who said and went away; for example, Congressman Hollik read Mary Schmidt's fantastic article a few days ago, and she didn't say that she read it as if it were her own comment, so she took the parliamentary debate so seriously that she read the absolutely amazing writing written by Mary Schmidt; let's say, she could at least have noted that she was reading another text, but it seems to be the way the debate is going here. And then, of course, there were even more strange elements in this debate, and here many people asked themselves, "Well, here's Russian contact, whoa, well, there's no, and there's no doggies, and everything's said here. I took the trouble, and since I don't know Russian - although I was taught in primary school for five years, because I had to then - I gave this bill submitted by Fidesz to a Russian-speaking friend of mine, and the Russian bill, which became a law in 2012, a law on non-profit organizations operating as foreign agents, the title of the Russian law. He compared it to me in a certain way. Now, it's not that there's a context, there's literal takeovers, literally, preamble literally, definitions taken literally, and so on. So it's not that they're simply pleased by Putin to make such a law, but that the law was sent here, and it was given, and they didn't even bother to rephrase it, it was simply translated by someone; it's obviously not Gergely Gulyás, because from his resume it turns out that he doesn't speak Russian, obviously not Szilárd Németh, because his résumé revealed that he doesn't speak Russian, [[Dr. István Vitányi:]] The congressman doesn't have it in his résumé either. It's only written at Lajos Kósa's, that he speaks on a conversational level, which means that he obviously doesn't understand a complicated legal text. [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] I don't know if you can do such a complex codification task. [[Mihály Balla intervenes.]] I mean, we could assume that he's a language expert, but I don't really think he is. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai intervenes.]] So someone did this, someone translated the Russian law that was sent to you from the Kremlin, and it was first submitted here with the three Members, and then Mr Vitányi joined them. You can say that Mátyás Rákosi would have licked his ten fingers, that if the legislation had worked like this, that the texts from Moscow would come like this, and, uh, ooh, it's submitted. It's absolutely amazing what they're doing, and then we haven't said a word about what the content is, and what the consequences of this bill that they're going to push through Parliament. Well, I could ask you the first question, even if it wasn't for us, but for you, why are civil society organisations protesting on the street? [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Which one? Which one?]] Because the members of civil society organisations have gone out with Molinos, they have gone out themselves, civil society organisations that, for example, deal with Roma settlements. They took their own data out, put it on this big yellow tableau, how much money they get, where they work, how much taxes they pay. By the way, they weren't political once in their lives, they were so delicately absent, they went out there, and they said they weren't being bullied. Why, for example, do they object if this bill is otherwise all very well? And I'd say we could go through all the civil society organisations and wonder why they're protesting. Because they feel - quite rightly, by the way, because this is what the taxative of the law says - that they are branded: an organization supported from abroad. Several raised the problem of Gergely Gulyás' support from abroad. Because they're in line with him, several people here have said that it makes perfect sense that you're sending a message saying that Soros has been sponsored from abroad, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. To tell you the truth, I grew up watching the meetings of the Parliament so much. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] I liked to listen to the debates, even though I had some interest in politics, because I thought it was a normal place where arguments could be conflicted, and then the better that would govern the country after the next election. That's not what you do. They keep making an enemy image, they just focus on this one: there must be an enemy, cap adjusted, there is an enemy, there must be a shot at it, and no God or man is known, they just go forward and say-tell-tell-tell. That's what they did to refugees, they invented the word "supplier" for them, because it sounds so good, because in connection with the refugee, we would remember that they might be so poor, because they need to escape, no, migrants, we create a new word: pfuj, migrant! It's just that now you don't have any, so what? The Soros! And then the others will come in line. So what's the end of it? Now, are you going to continue to do this while you're in politics, that there will always be an opponent against whom you can provoke hatred? Because it's so... From a power-technical point of view, I understand that this is such a good thing, because it's a good thing to achieve results in elections, the only problem is to control the country, to look around what's going on in the country. This is where we attach you to civil society organisations, because these civil society organisations perform a task that your government doesn't do, a public task: they deal with poor people, they deal with disadvantaged areas, they build a community, they do rights protection activities, I could tell you that. They are carrying out a task that the State should perform, but the State is not or is only very partial of it. And that's why they're pissed off when they see this bill, because they feel like they're trying to get all the support they can from across the country, from abroad, wherever they can from wherever they can, because they see the task, they're conscientiously organized, they're doing as much as they can from their talent, strength, financial resources, and not only are they not caressing their tunics, because they're still fine, but they're kicking them to the side. So, you shouldn't be doing this, it's not going anywhere. That's why civil society organisations protest, which is why they went out on the street themselves, and that's why they said thank you, but they don't want much of this. Because, by the way, if you want to know how much support you have received from abroad, you have to look at the public data, they operate in a completely transparent manner, because they are sensitive to reporting on all the support, and you have to look at it. In connection with the COF and among themselves, ask where they get it; they don't like to talk about it, but settle this among themselves. In addition, they belong to a different category, because they are not NGOs, they are not government organisations, they are government-driven organizations, and they should be left out of this story, settle it differently. So it would be best if, by the way, all of this were withdrawn, who submitted this bill, and they would be better if they came to themselves and wondered why they were doing so much damage to Hungary, or wondered why the laws received from Moscow should be almost translated literally. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause in the ranks of independent representatives.]] [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2017-04-19-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two-minute comments. First from the Jobbik Group, Mr István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament. We'll wait for him to put it on. [[István Szávay: Sorry!]] Congressman on the mike. [[István Szávay: That's right, that's right.]] And from now on, I'm asking you to start your watch. [[13.10]]
u2017-04-19-85	Meanwhile, my notes are gone... thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In other words, a little more than that, because I didn't get an answer, and let me repeat a few more questions. I do not know whether Mr Vitányi is only here as rapporteur or has an opinion on these matters. If there is, I would like you to answer that, because Congressman Gulyás missed this. What happens if someone comes from abroad, but is a Hungarian citizen, opens a foundation and influences politics? What about the donations of people abroad who want to influence politics? Because the law doesn't provide that either. What about what I said in my keynote speakers, but one of my fellow Members indicated in religious organizations, what if this clause remains in the proposal, and we can go further through a religious organization as a pro-immigration or even further, some Islamic fundamentalist propaganda will take place in Hungary? How does this law intend to regulate these issues? The other is, let me draw your attention to just one contradiction. When we always tell you how many hundreds of thousands of people have fled this country over the last few years, including because of your disastrous economic policies and how many people are working abroad, you are always talking about it - and now you have been able to get better young researchers to do so - that in reality, who is working in the European Union, does not actually work abroad and should not be treated that way. Here, in fact, all the money comes from abroad, even from the European Union. Finally, let me read you some data quickly, although it may be for the next one. Based on a summary of various press information, you have spent a total of HUF 1 billion to support migrant organisations linked to György Soros in Hungary over the last two years. Achieving family reunification grants, training and apprenticeship programmes, helping migrants become entrepreneurs, migrant-specific intercultural training of professionals, for example. I'll continue with this at the next opportunity. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-86	Thank you very much. The next two-minute speaker is Ms Erzsébet Schmuck. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although the LMP has tabled amendments to the draft law, it would be acceptable for us to withdraw this law. However, it would be very good to find out if the government is thinking about another law or programme that would change the situation of civil society organisations at home. I think that in my comment I have made it quite clear that in recent years what has happened is that domestic funds have been completely decommissioned, foreign resources have also been significantly reduced, and we are now heading towards virtually no use of foreign resources by Hungarian civil society organisations. The domestic civil society sector is in a great deal of trouble, but there is a great need for the activities of civil society organisations, as civil society organisations carry out a great deal of work to fill the gap. In the environment, I can say that there is a need to increase the environmental awareness and environmental awareness of society, to explore and participate in a very, very large number of local environmental and nature conservation problems, but also in other civil society organisations, in the health sector and in the social sphere, there is a need for civil society organisations to work, but civil society organisations cannot function. This possibility of taking on public tasks for civil society organisations should be rethinked. So civil society organisations need to be taken care of. My question is whether the government is willing, instead of the law that stigmatize civil society organisations, to think about whether or not it is willing to draw up a programme or to make an amendment to the law so that civil society organisations can actually be in a position to fulfil the task assigned to them. A society cannot flourish without civil society organisations, and the question here is whether civil society organisations in Hungary will remain, how they will remain, and whether they can really take part in the implementation of the tasks ahead of society.
u2017-04-19-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Csaba Hende, from Fidesz, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I wanted to answer to Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi, but unfortunately she had more important things to do, and she left the room immediately after her speech, although I wanted to tell her that her speech, her speech, was completely false, less polite: it was based on a false comparison and a parallel, because she said that we are living here and creating times like those in the time of the dictatorship of the party. He was obviously not alive, or even if he was alive, he was a very little girl, so as a man like Ágnes Kunhalmi, who in 1988 - which is important for a few months here - joined the then Hungarian Democratic Forum and the democratic opposition, I would like to say that this kind of comparison is false in every taste and every element of it. Consider some of the factors that are important to our topic. At the time, there was no freely elected parliament where the opposition - then it was us - could have said what they thought about certain legislative proposals. At the time, there were no free-standing and functioning NGOs, as there are today. There was no freedom of speech at the time, no freedom of the press [[Zoltán Grimlock: Well, that's what we can talk about right now!]] And there was no freedom of assembly. These freedoms in Hungary are now guaranteed to everyone without restriction and without prejudice. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] The bill before us now does not stigmatise and, above all, does not make the operation of civil society organisations impossible, they can continue to operate freely, and they can continue to accept donations. It is simply a matter of confessing their donations over a certain amount of money from abroad. The truth can never be offensive, it can never be stigmatizing. However, there is a public experience that says that the person who pays is the one who pays the music. Put your masks down, the masquerade ball's over! Make it clear who's on whose behalf. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will return to the proper speeches. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has applied for a proper speech. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that Congressman Hende, as well as the other pro-government Members, is extremely aware of the specific features of which system; then it is certain that, if nothing else, they will at home admit to themselves that, by the way, there is an authoritarian system in Hungary today, which is only the cover of democracy. The fact that there are still democratic institutions exists is such a thing as the Constitutional Court or anything else, an absolute vision. It's institutional, but it doesn't work. It is quite clear that these institutional systems do not work, it is now an authoritarian system, but I think that they may be able to resolve such divisions by themselves sooner or later. What does government policy look like now? What you can't occupy, destroy. It's been about this for years, what they've been doing, exactly about it, and this actually brings back times that I think a lot of people would never want to see again in Hungary. You know perfectly well before we go into any technical detail here... - I think it is unnecessary, because here, behind the cover of professionalism, you simply order political retention interests, nothing else, so it is worth talking about. But they know quite clearly that civil society organisations, legal protection organisations, humanitarian organisations, who do work for the state, are the last islands of democracy in Hungary today, and are committed by pro-government representatives to abolish it. These are the civil society organisations that draw attention to the divisions, restrictions, abuses that the Orbán government is committing against its own people, against the Hungarian people. And by the way, this isn't any kind of attack or conspiracy, it's a legitimate criticism. Here you can try to sell that it's a lie. The Hungarian people are well aware of what you are doing. They are well aware of the disenfranchisements they have committed against them, they are aware that they are constantly abusing their power, selling the security of the country, only because of individual, limited group interests, business interests, and constantly stealing people. Everybody knows that. There is no need for any influence here, and everyone is well aware of that. I believe the truth hurts you, but these are still facts. [[13.20]] And, as I mentioned, these civil society organisations, in addition to this legitimate criticism, and obviously, in addition to the continuous illustration of democratic rule of law standards, carry out a great deal of valuable tasks instead of the state. I add that they should, of course, have an important role to play, and the state should also take on these tasks, but of course it is clear that it has no intention; it is not intended because the more vulnerable the Hungarian people are, the more the government's players can control them and the more they can try to influence them to keep their own self-interests. So I think that's their goal. It was mentioned here that Mr Gulyás mentioned that we could hear from him about freedom of expression for a long time, that, by the way, there could be a positive, negative assessment of something here, that is freedom of expression. That is true, freedom of expression can work, but, you know, in a democratic rule of law, laws are not based on all kinds of subjective considerations. Here in Hungary, they are not looking at national interests, they are not looking at generally accepted democratic standards, but they are making laws on the basis of purely subjective interests, individual interests and business interests. So that is why I said that this is no longer a democracy, it is an authoritarian system that has been built in Hungary. I would add that dictatorships also fail. Civilians manage transparently, several of my fellow Members have clearly explained that data is still available; it is not true that there is no way to see what foreign resources they would receive. On the other hand, the government circles, the related institutions, state-owned companies, public media, sports subsidies and, by the way, the Civil Alliance Forum, which has been mentioned by several people, are not operating transparently, and the spending of public money in Hungary today is not transparent at all. Examples of this are such as priority investments. I now write to the Centre for Major Government Investments for a long time to even tell me what these investments are. To this day, they could not even tell what investments they were engaged in, although this organization was created for this purpose, so let no one here talk about the transparency of government spending or spending public money at any level in Hungary. They have built institutionalized corruption in Hungary, and this is exactly the system that is dangerous to Hungarian society, because they are stealing people's money, so they have no moral basis to talk about transparency. And I would add that it was precisely the Hungarian government who forced Hungary out of the international anti-corruption programme - this is the Open Government Cooperation, of which 75 countries are still members - so I think this also shows what the government's policy looks like. While we are talking about influence and many people have mentioned that these organisations represent all kinds of foreign interests and want to enforce this in Hungary, I would like to ask what the government is actually doing. Each law and every decision made by a pro-government majority is actually all about the business interests of the narrow circle, nothing else. By the way, István Hollik himself listed how much support was granted to which organization, so this proves that it is not true that the operation of these organisations would not be transparent. Furthermore, they are listed in the law, and you have mentioned a lot, all kinds of national security aspects and the fight against money laundering, which are referred to as such; the bill has nothing to do with those reasons. However, if the national security aspect and the fight against money laundering were so important to you, then, for example, there would not exist a settlement bond case, a Moscow visa case, for example, a Pharaon case, when precisely you opened the door for criminals to come into Hungary, endangering the security of Hungary, and simply because of the business interests of a narrow circle, you will also sell the country's security. I would also like to ask where the Hungarian authorities are when, for example, paramilitary or radical organisations practice with foreign diplomats, and unfortunately, a tragedy had to happen in order to deal with the Hungarian National Frontline as such. So I think that there is in no way any basis for the government to impose any similar accusations on civil society organisations and organisations carrying out humanitarian tasks. The fact that they use a national security pretext for daily power and political purposes actually quotes the activities of Mečiar and Milosevich; perhaps this should not be done in Hungary. As a result of the bill, it should be stated on the brochures and materials of these organisations that they are foreign-funded organisations. I think that from now on, you should put it on the government posters - these beautiful blue posters, right, to stop Brussels! And all the other extremely relevant messages - that you people are spending your money on this! You can also say that you are Fidesz, and that you have an influence on it. It is a pity that Congressman Gulyás is no longer here, because he mentioned that the problem is not that someone is getting foreign money. Then I would like to ask what is wrong, because there is legislation now, and if someone is committing a crime, if one of these organisations is not acting according to the law, then there must be a procedure against it, or there must be a way to press charges. I would like to ask whether this happened anyway, whether there was anything like this - or whether the Hungarian authorities are now at a low point so far that they cannot do their job under the current laws and that a new law must be made? Don't make fun of yourself. This raised the issue of EU funds and the issue of nationality organisations. I'm saying that I believe that if I see any changes being made to this, but I'm saying that this doesn't need to be modified, we need to withdraw this entire bill as it is. By the way, it is very interesting why sports associations and religious organizations, for example, are left out of this circle. So, is there any interest in this, perhaps, in the government? So, if we are talking about influence - you believe that these organisations could endanger the democratic institutional system - I ask you to show me one single case in Hungary when this happened, bring evidence of one such case. Have they ever filed a complaint in such a case? What's the proof? So let's look at the basis of this entire bill. Here, I told you about the power tools and many before me. We remember that some pro-government Members, I think perhaps János Lázár, have repeatedly mentioned all kinds of vague reports on which civil society organisations are based. In addition to the fact that it was mentioned a few times, no one saw anything about it. My colleague Bernadett Szél also said that he saw nothing in the National Security Committee, the Director-General of the Information Office said two sentences. Is that what they're basing anything on? For some time now, I have been in correspondence with both the Information Office and the Minister who oversees it, and I will be very curious whether you have anything to show me. For more than a month now, I have received no meaningful answer from anyone; this is, by the way, an obstacle to the work of representatives. I'll be very curious if the case gets there, see if they have anything to show for it. I suspect not, because there's nothing beyond power technology to back that up. You're looking at power technology, but there's no rational argument against these organizations. That is precisely why I am interested in the fact that three Members, namely Mr Vitányi, are four Members, so where did four Members know that these organisations would be a huge threat. I don't know if they read it at the Lokal or they read it on 888.hu, and then they feel that it is absolutely proof that such a bill must be submitted. [[Dr. István Apáti's intervention.]] Besides, I don't know how they took this whole case. Oh, and the government doesn't want to take responsibility? ! Well, I'm not surprised, because what they're doing is unsuitable, and they've really been lying all day, so I'm surprised the ceiling didn't break down today. I'd like to ask you if you don't have a shred of fear - so are you not afraid of being held accountable at all? However, I think that it would be better to fear that international law and Hungarian law are being held accountable for the continuing violations of international law, the disincentives and, by the way, the betrayal of the Hungarian national interest, because that is why the political actors who have taken these decisions will be held accountable, as well as the professional players will be held accountable. [[13.30]] By the way, in the last few days, you can still withdraw this bill. And I think that, as our fellow Member Gulyás mentioned, how important the transparency of Hungarian public life is, it seems that this is not happening at all. There will be a time when this will take place after 2018, and transparency will be ensured. We will look at the propertyization of Viktor Orbán, the propertyization of Antal Rogán, and all the laws that serve individual business interests will have to be abolished, and everyone will have the same wealth as Lőrinc Mészáros, and then there will be transparency in Hungary; not from organisations that are working instead of the state, which are still trying to save the position of Hungarian society to some extent, where they have brought Hungarian society themselves, these organizations. I find it unacceptable and can still withdraw this proposal. Thank you.
u2017-04-19-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Gábor Fodor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to state my position in the debate, as well as the position of the Liberal Party, because it is worth mentioning, I think, some of the issues that were on the table here in the debate, but perhaps, after several interesting comments, we can give other aspects to these important and important issues. First of all, I would like to start by saying that the bill before us is nothing more than part of a political hysteria; part of a political hysteria in which it is a campaign element. A campaign element that basically runs against György Soros, and the hysteria against George Soros is the attack of the Central European University and an element of the attack of civil society organisations, which we see now in this proposal, which is, among other things, the author of Mr Vitányi. He represents the authors here in this debate, and I am pleased that there is one who listens to our words from the pointers. Well, political hysteria is not a good thing. It's not a good thing, because it can lead to bad cases, and it's a bad thing for both of them. The CEU, the Central European University, is a nasty issue, and it is also a nasty issue for civil society organisations to destroy. These are bad cases, because if I were to ask the question in itself, going beyond the usual platitudes and publicism, which we can read constantly in the press, elsewhere, we can hear here, in the benches of Parliament, where there is mourning about power and ugly politics and so on, I would now put aside these stupidities, and I would say that it is a legitimate aspect, of course, that a governing party wants to keep power. It's totally okay. There is nothing wrong with that, and power cannot be measured simply in this way, that because it is power in itself, it is bad or good in itself, of course, it does not depend on that, but on its performance at all times. So now, from these usual platitudes, I'm asking those present to listen to me to make reference. So it's a legitimate pursuit if a government, if any, the Fidesz government, wants to retain power, and that's why it's taking steps to think that it can keep its power. Even if, as we say, liberal doesn't like it, and it's against my values, it's still a legitimate pursuit. But when does this become illegal, inappropriate, and unacceptable? That's what I was just talking about. I said it was a bad thing. This becomes a nasty business, so it becomes illegal when it goes against the desire to retain power in the interests of Hungary, which is in the interests of the people who live here. Is it in the interests of the people living here to have a Central European University? It's in your best interest. It's primarily for the young people here, but it's for everyone. You are interested, because it strengthens and enhances Hungary's reputation. The young people of the surrounding countries come here to study, the elite of the surrounding countries, the political and economic elites of Budapest graduate. We should be proud of that, not drive a university out of here. I note that also, if I have used this expression earlier, that there is mourning or lamentation, when all this is going on, that Hungarian young people are going to study abroad, then they will not come home to Hungary, here is a university at last, this is the virtue of the Central European University, I note that they can give an American diploma in addition to the Hungarian diploma. This is the essence of which you are attacking, and this outrageous bill, with which the country is once again discrediting itself internationally, and we are embarrassing ourselves at home, so this bill, when it was adopted here and accepted, was not understood that this is the essence of this university to give an American degree and a Hungarian degree. And that's why a lot of young people don't go, that's why they stay in Budapest, that's why foreigners come here, that's why they study here, that's why visiting professors come here, that's why it's great. That is why we should be proud that this is not in Prague, it is not in Warsaw, it is not in Zagreb, it is in Budapest. And it's a huge pride for us. So it's not in our interest. It is not in the interests of Hungary's students, its members, the citizens who live here, but what you do goes against the interests of Hungary. In the same way, the attack on civil society organisations goes against the interests of Hungary. After all, it is in the best interests of the people who live here to have a civil society, a strong civil society. What is the essence of civil society? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Csaba Hende has brought up the times before the change of regime, and he has done well, you are right, Congressman, I remember those times, and I know how much we have fought for that time in the circles, how much we have fought for civil society to be established, for civil society to be strengthened. For civil society can be described with one concept: a society independent of the state. That's the point. So we're talking about organisations who don't get support from the state, they don't suck that kind of milk out of the state's bosom, they're able to stand on their own feet. In this respect, where do they get the money? Well, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. They can get it from abroad, they can get it from domestic, they can get it from entrepreneurs, they can get it from companies, they can get it from private people; they can't get it from one place: from the state. Because that is the essence of civil society, that would be worth understanding. You can't get it from one place: this is the state. They can get it from anywhere else. And they should be. It's very good to get it from abroad! Great. I'm happy for you. Wonderful! This strengthens Hungarian society. It's very good to get it from George Soros. I'm happy for you. We owe him thanks for this, Hungarian civil society is strengthening, and this is in Hungary's interest. It is great that there are Hungarian citizens who support such organisations. Wonderful! There are companies in Hungary and abroad who support various organizations and international companies. After all, many of my fellow Members have spoken about this in their speeches about what these civil society organisations are dealing with. Many support their activities, including international companies and Hungarian companies, because otherwise these are great activities. If you are dealing with children with disabilities or adults, helping the Roma - by integrating them into Hungarian society - or with other areas, because we could list different important areas here, not only in relation to migration, or in relation to the homeless, or in relation to the poor or education, but also in relation to very diverse cultural and artistic activities, these are all the interests of Hungarian society. Are we interested in these organisations being branded in Hungarian society? No! And just like what has been done to the Central European University, it is a mistake, a political mistake, and it is not in the interest of the Hungarian society, so your political pursuit is not legitimate here. The pursuit of holding power here becomes illegal, because the country, if you will, is facing the interests of the nation. And it's worth paying attention to because I can cynically say, "Well, what does it matter to us?" It's good for us opposition. Well, they've been protesting out on the streets for days, thousands and tens of thousands. A generation will grow up with a different basic experience. Do you remember, and many of you here in Parliament remember, that young people had the basic experience of all kinds of circuses and protests in 2006-07 on the Gyurcsány get out! , moment on the streets. Now there's a generation on the street whose basic experience is to get out of Orban! And this will not have political consequences directly in a month or two, but in six months and a year, there will be political consequences, you can be sure of that. A generation of people who think differently about this issue is growing up. Did you need this? I could say cynically, what difference does it make to me? Well, as an opposition, I think it's good for us. [[13.40]] But I would like to look beyond that. I would like to emphasise once again that what they are doing - now, beyond what is good for us oppositionists, we could say, on the basis of our political perspective - is not good for the country as a whole. So Hungary suffers so much and receives so much negative and discrimination on the international stage, and I would stress once again that at home, by the citizens of Hungary, they are losing illusions about you, that this is not good otherwise. It's not good! By the way, it's worth reading through the press, it's worth watching that you can't find a day, I couldn't list a day out of the last three weeks that I wouldn't read an open letter, I wouldn't read a speech, there wouldn't be anyone who wouldn't come forward that I, please, was on the right, I'd ever voted for Fidesz, but I'm not gonna do that. Say this to academics, say this to scientists, say this to sports leaders, say this to college students, say this to university teachers and others. From László Sólyom to the Bibo College, through the Nobel Prize winners, through the members of the Academy of Sciences, international and I would add, through the domestic scene, people are constantly publishing and publishing their own statements, letters and more: I was on the right, I voted for Fidesz, but I will not do it again. That's what I said, we could say, please, just do it, okay? Here's some more CEU laws. Let's just attack the NGOs. You could say that, but that would be a cynical mentality, and I don't want to do that. That's why I'm saying I think what they're doing is wrong, it's a bad thing. It's a nasty case twice, and it's a nasty case because it goes against the nation's interests. It is against the interests of Hungary, and here your ambition is not legitimate. And what they're doing is a mistake. Speaking of civil society, György Soros, I would like to reflect in a few words on the fact that Mr Gergely Gulyás, who was here for a longer period of time in the debate, and I think that this is the right thing to do, and he responded to a number of questions - he showed a way of thinking, which I would certainly like - and I also appreciate him for his work as President of the Commission - but the problem is that this is not a professional debate, as many of my fellow Members have mentioned here, because if it were just such a technical operation of something otherwise well-intentioned law, then what Gergely Gulyás spoke about would be fine. But since I started my speech by having a political hysteria here, where the target is George Soros and György Soros's various branches, Central European University, NGOs and others, unfortunately this is Gergely Gulyás's argument, the fact is that he is becoming weak. The reason why George Soros is a target is because we all know that again, because the pro-government voters need to be kept in a state of excitement all the time. So you have to put them in a fighting position forever, you have to have an enemy image for them, you can hate them, you can say that please, we are manipulated from abroad, many want us to be manipulated from abroad, background powers, conspiracies and all that, and with that you have the will to fight, you think many. But this is what I said before, that there are goals that are acceptable in order to maintain power, there are some that are not. This destruction, which is taking place at the moment in the case of the Central European University, in the case of civil society organisations, is not acceptable from this point of view. As I said, I would like to mention George Soros for a moment, because he is actually the target here. György Soros has been told a lot of things, most recently the leaders of Fidesz have grown up with various Soros scholarships and various Soros grants. It's not a very interesting topic anymore, because everyone knows it. However, I would like to say that George Soros owes much to this country. I think Hungary should be grateful to him. This is about a billionaire of Hungarian origin who, at the time of the change of regime, as we have already summoned in the House, could have spent his billions on himself, bought a few more castles, or I don't know what, an island, this, this is not what he did, but created various foundations in Central European countries, created support and helped us to make the change of regime a success. This has been forgotten by many of the members of the Fidesz group, because Fidesz and others have been supported so that Hungary can make a successful change of regime. This is due, among other things, to George Soros, and I think that we should be grateful. That doesn't mean that, by the way, in the last 30 years, what George Soros represented would have been great, because there are some things I agree with, some things I don't. But this element, that this country owes him thanks, is worth pointing out again. We liberals, on the other hand, have tabled a counter-proposal to highlight the absurdity of this proposal - I would also recommend it to Mr Vitányi - where we have made the hassle that this proposal, which you have tabled, has essentially not been touched, we have just replaced the civil society organisation everywhere, and we have replaced the government with civil society organisations everywhere. We also made it clear in the bill that if it serves foreign interests, if it is manipulated from abroad, don't give up, say, the Russians are manipulating it, or Putin is manipulating it, then you will certainly have to account for it. The bill is absurd, it is worth reading just because it is trying to highlight how absurd the bill you have tabled is. However, I would not treat Russian influence as a secondary issue; unfortunately, parallels can also be drawn in relation to the bill, since such a bill was also made in Russia; we know that there is a Russian influence because of the banning of the referendum on the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and other matters. So, ladies and gentlemen, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] overall, I think that this bill is not good for anything but political hystericalism, and it would be best to withdraw it immediately. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-19-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Zoltán Kész. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased that Gábor Fodor has included in his statement that in recent days many right-wing thinkers, conservative intellectuals have condemned the government both in relation to the CEU law and in relation to civil law. I can say for myself that I was on the right. I was a Fidesz voter, and the reason I started that election in 2015 was because I was sick of it. I was sick of Fidesz forgetting to hold a mirror in front of itself, and we wanted to keep a mirror in Veszprém that shows what real civic values are, which are not just marketing. I think that my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás also went home and tried to look in the mirror, and just because he went home, the kind of attitude that he had shown in the last few days and weeks was quite cynical, because he said that he had nothing to do with this bill, and then he also found himself there among the petitioners. But as my fellow Member Szabolcs Szabó has already mentioned, he probably didn't do the translation work, because Gergely Gulyás doesn't know Russian, but they simply put it there to come out and say something. I believe that the opposite of the government's claims in the case of civilians is true. Everything is completely backwards, and since many of my fellow Members have mentioned transparency, I think we are sitting on the horse the other way around with regard to transparency. The funds received from abroad are the most transparent. It is not by accident that my fellow Member Hollik also said when he mentioned the amount of money he received from a particular NGO abroad. How would he know? Because, my fellow Members, these are available on the website, they are completely transparent. Therefore, it should not be those who spend money from abroad on public tasks, public purposes, but those who spend domestic resources and domestic public money on private purposes. Before me, speakers have already mentioned the CÖF, and we could list the various fake civil organizations that this government has grunted about. You talked about foreign representation. With regard to the representation of foreign interests, I think that we are also sitting backwards on that particular horse, also vice versa. It is Viktor Orbán who represents foreign, foreign interests in this country. The Hungarian Prime Minister is also trying to destroy the European Union by serving Russian interests, and only good business for the Russians is the Paks atommaty, a decade of debt slavery, and at that time we have not talked about the unhindered influence and propaganda of Russian secret service in Hungary, because under the government of Viktor Orbán Budapest became one of the most important bases of the information war, and I believe that Hungary is once again a Moskovita government. As I said last night after my agenda, I believe that the moment has come when the government's operation is in conflict not only with common sense and the interests of Hungary, but also with the laws that they themselves have adopted, such as the 258th and 259th of Act C of 2012 in Btk. It goes in front of the article, which is about treason and infidelity. [[13.50]] And this whole story is shocking when we see it, and we are in great trouble when all these paragraphs are true to the Prime Minister, both in relation to the CEU law and in relation to the civil law that you have just submitted. Because what we call a prime minister and his government in Paks II. By investing for many decades in a never-reimbursing debt slave, as I have just mentioned? What do we call a man who wants to wipe out a trade channel with the money of the Rosatom, which, instead of brainwashing, dares to broadcast real news? What do we call a person who applies Putin's laws that stigmatize and instigate civilians in an EU Member State just to destroy the remaining islands of freedom? What do we call a man who wants to drive away the best university in his country because of his own past, because just like him, his Moscow boss is disturbed by freedom, academic autonomy, the mass of educated heads of people? What do we call a person who opens wide the gates of a NATO and EU country to Russian secret services and organised crime with a typically corrupt migration bond business? What do we call a man who blocks the defense of his country's secret service against Russia and does not take part in the defence against the Russian information war on his allies' side? What is the name of the person under whose government data and political opinion are sent to Moscow by Hungarian voters in a law-breaking propaganda operation? What do we call those who refuse to answer directly in the Parliament questions concerning the origin of their assets and their foreign placements? Let us call it what it is: treasonous and unfaithful to the interests of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us finally realise that, in this country, it is not the civilians who are political, but Viktor Orbán and Putin's aggressive policy, which seeks to wipe out all the autonomous areas, has entered the world of civilians. Nothing disturbs Putin and Orbán more than a person who may be involved in corruption research or legal protection, because both systems are driven by corruption and disenfranchisement. Orbán has done this more delicately for the time being, but he has now advanced to a higher degree by destroying the freedom of the press, limiting the university sphere and stigmatizing and harassing civilians. Viktor Orbán is just as violent as the Communists were in their worst times, he wants to deal with anyone who doesn't like in a quick way, by means of moskovita methods, by force. The Hungarian government and Moscow are conducting a disinformation campaign against the West, and Budapest is doing this against its own interests. Let's stop Brussels! In every word of the campaign, it is a lie and contrary to the interests of the Hungarians. The ruling party slandered tens of thousands of people by protesting for migrant business. Well, there is indeed a migrant business, it is called a settlement bond scheme, as my fellow Member of Kunhalmi already says, which is related to Antal Rogán, Minister of Propaganda, and this was not only the corruption business of the year, but it was possible to obtain large amounts of Hungarian documents by persons who belonged to organised criminals or intelligence from foreign states. Another very important thing to mention is that Gergely Gulyás mentioned in his speech a certain FARA Act of 1938 - this is the Foreign Agents Registration Act - and it was very interesting that yesterday in the Committee on Justice this debate was already held between Répássy and me, then Róbert Répássy argued that this and this and this is what is happening in Wikipedia. Well, I don't know, if Wikipedia is the reference point for Fidesz, congratulations. I am now offering to tell you what this law is really about, but my fellow Member Barondy has already referred to it, and perhaps even Gergely Gulyás explained it well: it is about political lobbyists. As Ágnes Kunhalmi mentions, this law was passed in 1938. There was a completely different scenario in 1938, and as we can see, on September 1, 1939, World War II broke out, there was legitimization of the law that still exists in the United States. The other, which is an interesting story, and I believe that Congressman Szávay has already mentioned what is the further purpose of the government with this law, because, as he said, such a regulation, as has already been done in Russia, may serve the purpose that if we already have this register, then perhaps further legal consequences can be more easily conceived... conceived... can be implemented - now I say this difficult term. Then again, I think it belongs to the category of cynicism, when István Hollik says that these civil society organisations did not raise their voice before 2010. That's a lie! Yes, you can. I do not dare to point out that I, too, should not be accidentally called upon by the President to present some papers on how many pro-government Members have said not only between 2002 and 2010, but even in their own term, how much they need these organisations. Let me disprove Mr. Hollik, who, as in last night's debate, left again, called the Christian Democrat, Zoltán Balog praised Helsinki and TASZ in 2006 in connection with the siege of the MTV headquarters. This is what Zoltán Balog said:. Who claims that the attack on the police and the rule of law is a violation of human rights, is playing against each other for the sake of party politics. The Hungarian Helsinki Committee, the National Legal Protection Foundation or the TASZ do not belong to the same political camp, but they know that the issue of human rights is not a party political issue. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What is also important to me is that you, I think, have not consulted society on this issue. Others, however, do. There was a poll conducted by Závecz Research: 81 percent of Hungarians believe that it is acceptable that a civil society organisation criticizes the government, and 63 percent also accept that money is received from abroad. 71 percent of respondents, however, oppose the government's granting of money to a civil society organisation that supports its policy. My colleague Mr Bernadett Szél also mentioned and tried to address the national security risks mentioned. You're absolutely right, because the civilians, according to Fidesz, are a national security risk. But I beg you, in the case of Szilárd Kiss, who failed twice in the national security review of the visa business? Didn't the same thing come up in Pharaon's case, who might have made friends with terrorists? We could continue the line, my fellow Members, on what you have said about civil society organisations, whether between 2002 and 2010, or even since then, but I think that really makes little sense. However, I would like to speak specifically to my fellow members of the Government. Not for long, but I think that it is still possible to turn back, you can look into the mirror in front of which Gergely Gulyás practices so much in the morning that he can tell you the mantra written by Árpád Habony. If you think you're going to be an exception, you're seriously mistaken. The Orbán system is certainly moving on the Turkish and Russian roads, and it takes away the rights that we are already used to, starts chasing potential opponents, or anyone who does not clap and refuses to stand in this particular chain. The Hungarian application of the former law of Putin, which stigmatizes civilians, is an important step on this path that leads to a shameful and chasm. Not the already fully transparent civilians, but, as I have already said, the Hungarian government, which is running a migration business, has co-ordinated with foreign power. It's not the civilians, it's the government, it's the foreign agency. The way to Orbán is to the world of Asian oppression, half- or whole dictatorship, where the European Union no longer protects you, where only the German madness rules; where the arbiter, as we know, has itchy palms when he sees protestors, and where he can sprinkle with salt the traces of the newspapers that write that his accomplices are robbing the state. If you think, my fellow members of the Government, that there is a border on this road, you are wrong, because your loyalty will not be enough. Orbán's personality and the distorted, inhumane system that he has built up in some places follows directly, not only that he does not tolerate any opposition, but he does not tolerate any abstentions. He's more of a student of Rakosi's than Kadar's. There will be any pro-government politician, a government newspaper, a university that refuses to imagine its existence only in servitude. Thought is sin, independence is sin, freedom is sin, integrity is sin. [[14.00]] The sooner they wake up, the more chance we'll have to rebuild this country torn apart by evil and power madness. Remember, the historical responsibility is yours. There is no obligation to follow Viktor Orbán on the road to Moscow. I am very sorry that Csaba Hende left, because he set a 1988 example of what they were doing in opposition. I started high school in 1988, and I still remember the posters of the MDF mentioned by Csaba Hende. The MDF posters told me that tovarischi, konyec! I hope that in 2018 the posters of Fidesz will not have Cyrillic letters that are "zdravstvuj, tovarischi" because then they really rang for us and really turn off that particular light. Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-04-19-96	Thank you. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Teleki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have become accustomed to the Fidesz government and Fidesz not doing any impact assessment when they bring such a law before the House. The reason why we should have the impact assessment in this case is because we can see that the money that will be withdrawn from civilians will be missing from somewhere. For example, we will miss education, health care, building a civil society, building democracy, and not least the fight against corruption. You must be interested in this, especially in the last, so that no progress is made, because then there won't be anyone out of your circle who's committing corruption. By the way, the civilians who deal with this could point to the financial abuse that has taken place. But I don't want to deal with that, it's not my area, but I wanted to tell you that you've brought back a law that doesn't have any impact assessment. However, what I would like to say is that the impossibility of the civilian sector, which you have just started, leads to the fact that there will not be a civil sector, a kind of civic courage that could help those on some level in local settlements or even here in the capital for whom it was established in its statutes and statutes. So you don't want to help civilians, you want to make it completely impossible. And on behalf of the civilians, I've been head of civil society for 20 years, and I'm asking myself that the resources that can otherwise be delivered and spent for a good purpose, you want to withdraw them. When I talk about impact assessments, there is no amount in favour of what budget line is included in the 2018 budget if so much money is withdrawn from the civilian sector. Will civilians replace the resources that will be missing from these cases that I have listed? So what I see in my 2018 budget vision is that you will not create the lack of what you are doing with this law. And the biggest problem is that the cases that are in the local government area and in the area of state institutions, which means that civilians are taking on various tasks from the local authorities, from the state, you do not realize that no one else can and do not want to see that. Therefore, they are committing a crime against those who will be injured in the next period, because there will be no source of schoolwork to provide scholarships to disadvantaged people, and not just Roma, nor will there be any source to put the Roma community in a position in this case to promote their development with the resources they receive from it. So you're taking development away from civil courage, that is, society. The third thing: George Soros was mentioned several times. However, I must mention it, as Gábor Fodor said, that we can certainly be grateful to George Soros for a few things, because, either during the time of our government or during the time of your government, he has put a lot of resources into the Roma issue that can be seen in these seven years. I'll tell you three things. No government has managed to eliminate the Roma settlements. György Soros, through the Decade of Roma programme, said that this issue needs to be addressed, and he himself made money from his own source to stop the Roma settlements in Hungary. After that, György Soros had the expectation that every government would add any amount from the budget, that these Gypsy settlements - some 600-650 Gypsy settlements in Hungary and some 120 thousand Gypsy people live here - could be eliminated. And if that's what he said the government would do, then I'm gonna do it. This money is also being taken away by you now that those who live in such extreme poverty every morning, every day, to stay there again and spread poverty, hopelessness and poverty in the gypsy settlements that he has supported so far. I would go further: when I say that it is a Roma intellectual, it cannot be said that your government would have done something in order to develop a scholarship system with which the Roma intellectuals can appear in Hungary. In fact, my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi is right, the Public Foundation for Gypsies in Hungary has been abolished. You have abolished the public foundation that has made it transparent how many Roma receive scholarships in Hungary today; in 2011 you have terminated it. What responsibility do you have if the foundation in which the taxpayer's source was seen and the source of György Soros in the public foundation system was removed by a pen stroke? [[István Ikotity takes his place in the notary seat.]] And it is not possible to see today how many students can be sent, say, to the graduation system or to the higher education system, because they have made it invisible. So they have a responsibility that the Roma intellectuals in Hungary cannot develop. He cannot get there to see a percentage of Gypsyism that is able to be present in public institutions, state institutions, municipal institutions, and not only as a cleaner in the public employment system, but also as a lecturer or department head, head of department, deputy. You're stopping this. So they steal the future of Gypsy in Hungary by not giving national minority organisations the opportunity to be in exceptional procedure in this law. But you shouldn't, because no civilian should be put in a position where they can't draw these funds. And I'd like to say two or three more things. For example, scholarships were mentioned. Let us be honest, it was seen that something started in Hungary in the education of the Roma when György Soros founded a scholarship. Until then, only one government did not think after the change of regime to deal with this issue. György Soros thought that yes, there is a Roma population with between 700 and 800 thousand people and no intellectual layer, no education, especially in higher education, secondary school education, and a scholarship with which he will definitely appear at a level that is essential for development. You leave the development of Gypsy in Hungary on the side of the road. I can't! You can't do that, because you're gonna show off and a lot of other people are gonna point out that the gypsies are still here, 300-400-500-600 years ago, where they've been. We'll be there and they'll be there because you're the barriers to development. The next, which is a very important phenomenon, is that the elimination of independence, the eradication of the independence of civil society organisations, is primarily dangerous because there will be no one to deal with the problems listed; as I said, neither the municipal supply systems can, nor the state systems can. Therefore, free independence, democratic independence, should be ensured for the benefit of civilians, so that they can carry out their duties, because the tasks they do help every segment of society. [[14.10]] How will they account for the charities that have done a lot of things in Hungary and have functioned or functioned as various aid organisations today? How are you going to face those charities that you're over 7 million forints, and from here on out, you're not getting a single forint? However, 7 million forints is not such a large sum that it will not reach it soon. Then how will we be? Will people who cannot receive this care stay hungry every day, living in poverty? I think that can't be done, so the law that's in front of us is irresponsible. And, as I said at the Justice Committee's meeting, I would like to emphasise, I would like to say and say that this law should be revoked, so that you do not become the barrier to development. If they do not withdraw, they will achieve a crack in the civilian sector by extracting the resources they have been able to exploit in the public interest, in the interests of the common good, if that is the case. You do not want the interests of the common good, but you want everyone to depend on the government; the civilians, the various segments of society and the individual themselves to depend on the government, because now the grandmother doesn't dare to go out and protest if she doesn't agree with the Fides, because she says my granddaughter is in danger of being dropped out of kindergarten. And believe me, we have heard this more than once from our opposition benches, I'm sure, but you may have heard it, too. So, therefore, do not eliminate the democracy that we have done in the past 27 years, if we have done it together, but even if it is difficult, because this is definitely the beginning of the eradication of civil democracy. So when I say to withdraw, I say this not only on my behalf and not only on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, but also on behalf of a lot of civil society organisations, if necessary, I can submit it in writing, because a lot of people have written emails to protest and to call on the authors, to call on the government that they cannot negotiate such a law today, and if they negotiate, then take it off the agenda, because we cannot break the democracy that we have achieved so far. If you continue to say that this law is sustainable, then you will go against civil society in such a way that you will never take the path of a development of Hungarian social democracy that many of us would like to see now. Therefore, once again in my last thought, in my last sentence, I ask the pro-government, the authors, to withdraw this law. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-19-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is also Mr Attila Mesterházy from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the comments made in the debate, although those who said so are no longer in the Chamber, but it is perhaps interesting or worthwhile to make these comments for the purpose of the minutes. The first one would be linked to Congressman Hende's sentences. He asked himself that Fidesz cannot be compared to a Bolshevik party, since it does not stop in any way. I would also dispute this statement in substance, but then it would also be interesting to ask Mr Hende what to do with the sentence or idea that the Speaker said, who said that being a communist does not mean that the party of the state was a member - then there are quite a lot of communists among themselves - but that it is a form of behaviour. Then I, who was born in 1974, can be a communist if it's a form of behavior. But if you accept this argument from your own Speaker, then I don't know why you're surprised if someone else sees you in the form of a party of another historical age. It is also difficult to understand that the MSZP is the successor party to the MSZMP, as Mr Gulyás spoke about it, because then we can also reject these sentences in a similar way. The other thing that was quite surprising to me was that Congressman Hollik came up with a quote from Ponta Fidesz. as a representative. I remember the times when I invited Ponta as the Prime Minister of Romania to Hungary for a forum, and then she made a huge outburst against Fidesz Ponta, and now it is a point of reference, because if she thinks so, then there is actually no problem with this idea. Here, let me draw the attention of politicians who claim to be nationalists to one thing. Let us not end by using this argument against Hungarians across the border in Romania, and then try to use this argument against Hungarian NGOs across the border so that they no longer receive funds from Hungary, the mother country. So don't let the ice cream lick you back, and then you have to take steps to prevent Romania or politicians there from using this type of argument as a card against Transylvanian Hungarians or in other cross-border areas, which you are now applying to Hungarian NGOs. Then another interesting suggestion is that Gergő Gulyás is talking about Russian friendship and that he is asking us why we criticize the government's desire to have a good relationship with Russia. Please, this is not what we are criticising, that the government is seeking a rational, fair relationship, even for our economic interests with Russia. The former MSZP governments did the same. What we criticize is two things. One is that there is a different economic interest and a different set of values or political identity; this is a criticism of content. The other criticism is that when the then MSZP government signed the South Stream contract with the Russians, Fidesz also launched a massive attack on the MSZP, how to agree with Russia, this is the betrayal of NATO, the Atlantic values, and Fidesz politicians quickly bought the plane ticket to Washington, and announced the socialist government at that time with all the fine American organizations, and, of course, when MSZP politicians visited Washington, we had to explain to Fidesz's report what this agreement was about, what it was about, what it wasn't about, and the other, and then the government had to take diplomatic steps, because the United States was susceptible to this Fidesz report and criticism at the time. So it seems to us that your position is determined by your meeting point: when you are on the government, it is perfectly all right to build a good economic relationship with the Russians when they are in opposition, and then this is treason, and Viktor Orbán immediately talks about the proliferation of Putin's finches in Europe, and now it seems that he is wagging his tail the most. I would also like to say such a civil society organisation or international organisation as the Council of Europe. In the Council of Europe, when the Venice Commission criticized the Gyurcsány government or any other socialist government, Zsolt Németh sang long odes about the importance of the Venice Commission, the great authority of this organisation, its professional competence, and the world scandal when it came to the criticism of the Hungarian Government by the Venice Commission, and he whipped the government that these criticisms should be taken into account immediately, and then these comments should be corrected immediately. Compared to this, when you were criticized not so long ago by the Venice Commission, it immediately became a sort of sufnituning organization with agents and hostile party politicians, and it's actually a salt office that doesn't really need to be dealt with. I just wanted to give you this as an example of how you change your mind just as your party political interests require. I have two specific questions, in case anyone can answer it, perhaps Mr. Secretary of State or the author. A reference to this has been made here in a different way, and I would just like to interpret it; I have read the text of the law; it is not clear to me, but it may have been just me. Religious NGOs or related civil society organisations have come out of this. But let me ask you, if, for example, the Church of Scientology is supported from abroad, because there have already been various Islamist organizations, I see less danger in this; but if, say, a Scientological Church is supported from America, then it is one of these organisations, because they have many NGOs that are supported and funded in this way in different areas, from drug prevention to sport, they are active in many areas. So please reassure me that in such a case, these NGOs are not among the exceptions. [[14.20]] Then let me ask another question: what is the difference if, say, you say that political influence is taking place, so we must make these things public. Okay, I get that. But what if, let's say, a multinational company finances a civil society organisation in Hungary or sets up a civil society organisation to influence lawmakers politically? I'll give you an example. Let's just say a tobacco company can't advertise itself. Therefore, it is common practice everywhere in the world that tobacco factories either form or choose and support NGOs and start to finance culture, finance sport and thus influence them. And now I don't necessarily mean influence in a negative or even negative way. So what if an economic lobbyist uses civil society organisations to influence political decision-makers in the government, Parliament, whatever? If the Audi is doing this - I'm saying this directly to the company, so that no one gets the wrong idea - it's okay, but if I don't know what foreign government or foreign company has its head office abroad, if it finances a civil society organisation in Hungary, then that's a problem, because there's a transparency problem there. If it's the same... I'm telling you, I don't even know where the Audi center is in Germany. Where is he? [[Intercoms: Ingolstadt.]] Ingolstadt, thank you very much. So if ingolstadt is to fund a civil society organization, then that's a problem. If you organize from Győr, the same company will finance, finance the same civil society organization, there's no problem with that. In English, it seems to me that not only the horse's foot hangs out in this, but probably the horse is hanging out now, too. The other, as you said, and Gergő Gulyás tried to be precise at the beginning, that he talked about civil society organisations that were constantly funded from abroad, but then only one commentator from Fidesz spoke about non-governmental organisations that were not financed from abroad, but György Soros. So I see that you are making a law because George Soros is financing 3, 5, 10 civil society organisations here in Hungary. If, therefore, what you say is true is that the problem is with NGOs that are funded from abroad, then I think you would also be talking about it. But all their political communication is always limited to one person, and this is György Soros, and I am proud to say that I applied for a soros scholarship in Veszprém at László Lovassy High School. Please, I didn't get a Soros scholarship, unlike you. So in Hungarian, I don't have this kind of commitment to György Soros, and I'm even angry at him here, because I would have liked to have gone abroad with this scholarship, but I didn't have that to study in Oxford, and it was a little more complicated to learn English. So in Hungarian, I'm just saying that it's quite clear that this bill that you brought here to the table in Parliament, please, is not about what this debate is about, by the way, almost on your part, but rather about that this is about politics. And what kind of politics is that? Please, this is certainly only a political question because I see in the Fidesz mechanism - or in its communication strategy - that you are constantly looking for enemy images. The fact that this is changing according to historical times is clear. Right now, migrants are on the agenda, as well as soros György's civil society organisations, but this basically helps your party's political intentions; namely, to create an enemy image, they share society and thus try to keep their own electoral camp together. The other is that it is quite clear that this is a proposal to address an extreme right-wing voting camp, because it is a covert Jewishism that you are doing using the name of George Soros. [[There's a riot in the benches of Fidesz. Dr. György Bárándy: That's true! The president's ringing the bell.]] And in Hungary, who can read between the lines, and this was what was needed to read between the lines, it is quite clear that you never say, of course, always ask for it, but why was István Csurka always the main enemy image of George Soros? Why did he always talk about Soros being hired? As a matter of fact, you're the ones he always said about, the Fidesz, that you're the Soros rentals. Why is this connected to an extreme right-wing politician, the topic, the communication tool you have now picked up and are fighting it again in Hungary? It's very clear, once again, that this is about getting a vote, addressing extreme right-wing voters, and that the Fidesz communication machine, as it has already worked, can continue to rumble in the production of the enemy image. After all, the bill itself, as I have referred to before, can be technically avoided. So there's no problem. The same NGOs can also be financed by someone - let's stay with György Soros if we are here - in Hungary, a company or whatever, and from there, a Kft registered in Hungary. support these civil society organisations and, from then on, no such publication or registration will have to be taken into account by these civil society organisations. I was just suggesting that this thing doesn't even make sense. So if someone were to fund these civil society organisations for some secret, low-key, ulterior motive, based on some special, secret interest, conteo theories, they would certainly be able to do so in a much more discreet way than to transfer these funds, which the whole country now knows exactly how much money, where they come from and what they serve. The last thought is really about this political self-acting group, the PÖCS, which is CÖF, because I have been suing this COF since about 2014. I sue them because they used my image and presented me in the 2014 campaign as a convicted felon - I welcome Jobbik like this, in this club a few years later - and I sued them because I thought this poster campaign was bleeding from multiple wounds. And a very interesting court decision came out of this. I won it in the first degree, and then I lost the lawsuit in the second degree, because I had to tolerate or tolerate this kind of poster campaign, because please, it's a political expression. So, the CÖF what it did is a political expression as a civil society organisation whose registration page says that it operates independently of politics and that it is a public benefit organisation that does not deal with party policy issues. So if you miss transparency, tell the CF to do as you expect other civil society organisations to do. If, therefore, they describe that they are a public benefit organisation operating in a policy-neutral manner, then it would be important that, on the one hand, the prosecutor's office should have banned this organisation long ago, since it has no clear funding and carries on an activity that is not allowed for its own definition. I'm taking this case as long as I can, as long as there's legal scope. At least this way we'll have a little fun with each other in our spare time. I would just like to say to you that this law is wrong, that it must be withdrawn - we too believe this - this law, because its purpose, even if it had a sensible purpose, cannot be achieved, so what you refer to is that argument failing in the field of daily technical solutions. Two, it is quite clear that it serves political purposes, but then there is no need to introduce a law, so it is enough that they continue to exist in their political communication, and then they will certainly be able to achieve similar goals with this covert Jewishism. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-19-100	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A general debate in Parliament always gives us the opportunity to talk with some perspective on a given area, and this is, where appropriate, the circle of civil society organisations. I'll tell you the truth, I'm one of the few people who took note of this legislation with a bit of secret pleasure, but in this it was only that the submission of it determines and indicates the degree of fear of the Fidesz administration. You're scared. In such a personal cult society, one of the indicators and symptoms of persecution mania is when they're basically looking for an enemy who needs to be caught. Because obviously, when I talk to you, as an ordinary Member, I wonder why we are not talking about laws in Parliament that make this country a better place. Because in this particular proposal, I simply don't understand where the possibility is. Why will Hungary be a better place if this law is passed? There are a lot of topics that could make Hungary a better place, but this is not one of them. And this degree of fear has a bearing on how you treat and treat the civilian sector. I think it is interesting to talk about this, and I urge my fellow Member Vitány to take part in the debate, so that we can still exchange ideas here and not react in the end, because the measure of democracy is how separate, let us say, the economic sector, the political sector and the third, the civil sector. [[14.30]] In Hungary, these supposedly independent social actors have now become confused, you have intervened in this, you want to be the civilians - everyone here has already mentioned the CÖF, I don't want to, I say the other one, my favorite in my field, when Minister Sándor Fazekas tells his buddy Tibor Flag, such a GMO gentleman, that we should already create a GMO organization, because I need a civilian with whom I can conclude a strategic agreement - and the background of the establishment of a grassroots social initiative will disappear, but the government will create a civil background with which strategic agreements will be concluded. So this is an indicator of what our democracy is like. It is also obvious how the political sector overlaps with the economic sector and how they say different economic laws to the Hungarian government, from the CSOK to a lot of examples of this, all the way to the legislation on the trades, obviously this is all one indicator. When we look at how you treat the real civilians, where ten people are self-organizingly assembled and formed a civil society organization under the Civil Code, we need to see that they are constantly being dealt with, not only in this cycle, but also in the previous one. It started with the National Civil Fund programme, there was a basic programme, there was an initiative about the fact that the amount of tax that Hungarian citizens offer to Hungarian citizens is set aside by the Hungarian state and distributed by tender. This was done by the delegation of various electors by civil society organisations, and the state took part, to a lesser and lesser extent, the better it was, in order to oversee all of this. That was the first time. Instead, the tender fund was reduced, so less money was spent on funding civil society organisations, instead the NEA was created, where, however, the organisations on whose behalf it did not include the fact that it was "citizen" or "Christian" or "national" were excluded from the name. So, first of all, there was a void. Civil society organisations in Hungary, just as anywhere else, perform public tasks, public tasks which the state does not perform or does not perform properly, they are created to perform public tasks. One thing they never want: to get in power, the task of politics, they do not want to become social leaders, they just want to have some kind of impact on society's processes. It is somehow appropriate to support these organisations in the performance of their public tasks. There is another solution: if the state does not perform the public tasks and these tasks are not to be performed, but the current government, as can be said before, has left so many areas of expertise in which it has no meaningful action, and a multitude of civil society organisations have performed the public tasks. Accordingly, the rise of these civil society organisations and their social needs have clearly appeared and many organisations across the country have carried out such tasks. Overall, in the submitted bill, there would be a clear registration, stigmatisation and comment on organisations receiving support of an amount of approximately HUF 7.2 million from abroad. The basic question arises: why will this make Hungary a better place if this happens? Our fellow Member, Mr Hollik, has demonstrated here in his speech that it is still possible to access the data; it can be read now, who is interested in this, and can look into it at the moment. The May Other was initiated by Politics, and the Head of the Group has already said that if there is such a real need and you want to increase the level of social transparency, then we should not make any distinction, but we should look at the impact it has on both domestic and Hungarian corporate money. After all, if you assume that there are subsidies with some harmful intent, speculative intent or any kind of tactical intent, then it is obvious that if Monsanto Kft. is registered in Hungary, it may arise as a question. You give money to a GMO NGO, what representation you want; or let's say if the MVM gives money to - I don't know - Real Green people or anyone in the country, you expect to stand up for, say, Paks or anything like that. So the impact that exists between the sponsor and the sponsor for a value representation clearly implies a relationship that should be discussed more broadly. It is now easy for us to talk about this because the proposal of the May Other Politics is broadly in line with what Attila Péterfalvi, President of the Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, Attila Péterfalvi, wrote to Vice-President Gergely Gulyás Fidesz, Vice-President of the Parliament responsible for the legislative process, a notary of the Act on Anti-Civil Stamping, and here Mr Attila Péterfalvi clearly says that, in order to achieve the regulatory objective of public interest, it is possible to further widen the scope of those who are obliged to publish the data, and that, literally, in the case of civil society organisations acting in an independent opinion-forming role, not only the transparency of funding from abroad is essential, but also the transparency of domestic, corporate, state or institutional political political policies can be used to enforce corporate lobby interests or to influence public opinion. It may therefore arise that information on entities financed by an economic operator or organisations supported by a government or a political party should be made available to the public in a similar manner to that of an organisation supported from abroad. In this case - I propose to the notaries of this legislation - it is clear that it is necessary to consider whether only those who have been supported from abroad should be branded, because if we assume that this affects their commitment to the nation, then we can rightly assume this, let us say, Monsanto Magyarország Kft. also in the case of beneficiaries. And a number of my opposition fellow Members have said that in this case, if we broaden this and make it general, it could be a matter of substantive consideration, how this should be achieved, not to have a negative impact on the country, but to make the country a better place, where the transparency will be increased. I therefore wish to bring the content of this resolution and of this letter to the attention of my pro-government colleagues, because it essentially creates the possibility of creating a cleaner and better democracy to the same extent as the views of the May Other Politics, so that Hungary is a better place. If such amendments were to be able to reshape and rewrite this draft, it would be possible to talk about and say that this could contribute to the way out of the kind of problems that civil society, the political sector and the third sector have created with the current overlap of the economic sector. Obviously, this is strange because it is recorded by representatives of a party who has been influenced from abroad: they represent American interests in the European Parliament when they support the Transatlantic Free Trade Agreement - American interests! - they did the same to CETA, opened the EU to a country of 35 million, and contributed to the opening of a 500 million-dollar market until it served Hungarian interests. This is a foreign representation, so let's face it. They do the same with the Monsanto: when Minister Sándor Fazekas is out in America asking how Hungary should participate in such research, although Hungary's constitution would forbid all of this, it is foreign interest and they represent the interests of Monsanto's large company. But Putin is no longer mentioned, because obviously it is how Russian interests are served in general with their policies, and let's say, during today, I was able to listen to the Minister without a wallet in our committee, and to face this amazing thing once again, that, in fact, according to Russian interests, Hungary's energy vision is tailored to Putin's image, that is basically what represents a foreign influence, which is a threat to Hungarian society. And if we are talking about foreign financing and foreign interests, then basically we also need to talk about them, and we need to add them to this package. All in all, I can therefore say that, if the objectives are understandable, the instrument itself is unacceptable and that at a level which is narrow and unacceptable, it will be necessary to carry out these public tasks at a level that is otherwise public at a level which is fundamentally risky to maintain the performance of these public tasks, which, at the moment, and which is likely to remain so under the governance of the Fidesz-KDNP, will be necessary. I wanted to respond to one more thing, because there was a very interesting debate here during the day - I did not want to say that in the morning - Mr Csaba Hende spoke about part of my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi's response to the fact that there is no party-state system here, and how no attitude of this kind has been, and he has excused how much better this Hungarian society is now. I'd say different - but not better. Overall, the whole point of all this legislation, all these problems we are talking about, is that the technique and culture of power that could be used to in the party state does not change substantially. [[14.40]] Now, if we're talking about whether this is a democratic arrangement, an autocrat state or not, then obviously we have to look at what has changed. In the communist system or socialist system, a party has decided everything. How many will decide now? A couple. Fidesz-KDNP, if we consider it a party, as a political community. It's the same choice. It's a one-party system 2.0. And this one-party system 2.0 creates the possibility of a XXI. One-party system of the century, which gives us the opportunity to sit here in Parliament, to express our opinion, but this does not have any impact on Hungarian legislation, we cannot change your views in substance - not even with the best arguments - and the vast majority of their representatives who do not come to Parliament and then vote here to vote off a law that they do not even know what it contains. It's the same for a couple to decide everything. If we look at the history of civil society organisations in the last thirty-forty years, then - sorry that I will say a green example again, as my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck - it was possible to set up green organisations in Hungary since the 1970s, but they always said in the 1990s that three Ts can characterize the relationship between the state and the civilians, this tug, tolerates and supports. From the 1970s until the beginning of the 1990s, in the early 1990s, the category of tense came, and now, instead of making some progress in society, we are going back to the category "dipor" and we are trying to complete their public service with such registration obligations. I would therefore like to defend the position that these are indeed party-state tools, because in a well-functioning democracy, it is precisely the bottom-up self-activity that should be supported and to be grateful to the Hungarian State and the government for the public service. We do not see any trace of this gratitude and minimal humility in this draft law, but, obviously, our own political goals, the kind of terror that I was talking about, that they are now afraid of everyone, that they are also terrified of a few civil society organisations that employ some people, and that they can feel the mood of it through this bill. Accordingly, I would like to ask the distributors either to withdraw this completely or to completely redesign it so that we can see the support of the Fidesz party foundation as well as the support of the large multinational companies in Hungary, to see the political supporters, and I do not want to give examples, to see the corporate tax beneficiaries. They can all be known and can be discussed in a single regulation. I ask you to do this, and I would ask my fellow Member to change the substantive consideration of this, in particular, on the basis of the opinion of the President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-19-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Obviously, as the debate progresses, we are going deeper and deeper into the bugs that you have actually dug for us, so it is worth noting that two people have given us the basic voice of this debate. One of them was your Vice President, Szilárd Németh, who used to say - what the country was shocked to hear - that they had to be cleaned up from here; that's what he said at a press conference. And then, here in Parliament, our fellow Member Hollik gave his basic voice, who then read everything he had in his hands, there was an independent, non-independent expert, non-independent media, that civil society organisations that were created without social support and without social support, which did not support protesters in 2006. What you don't care about is that maybe those of you who are 20 today were probably 9-11 years old in 2006. But you can take the bus here for every Hungarian holiday, by the way, Polish friends, what the CÖF wants, post in this country, and, of course, even refuse to compare with Russia. Now, look, every time you say these things, every time you tell me that this isn't the Russian example, every time you tell me that this isn't about Soros, or it's not just about Soros, and all you want to say is transparency, it's actually just that you want to regulate civil society organisations. And again, it is the same as always: they are putting the debate aside, they are making a populist debate out of it, they are making a sound and moody debate that really doesn't suit this House - this is what my fellow Member Hollik's speech was - it is not only inappropriate, it could also be said that this level of attitude is unworthy. And on the other hand, you're always holding, strangling, and clutching 90 percent for 10 percent of the time. We've had a similar debate here in Parliament, we've talked about it in connection with another law, and one of your fellow Members said that even in a given world of heaven, he was not disturbed by the need to make a declaration of assets. And we know that, because you usually don't mind making a property statement, because after that, we see that the immunity committee is about to meet, and then there's the starring parts and the fixed parts. Who left out a land-based grant, the other, who became a minister, had a steady increase in his apartment, or there was the mayor of Felcsút, who had left out last year's estate, if I remember correctly, ladies and gentlemen, a dirty billion. What kind of a transparent system is that? And what example do you set for civilians who you think are not transparent, and you want to start by looking into all sorts of things? It may still be possible, but then we must set an example, honourable Members. It is not possible that the mayor of Felcsút, who is an example of the Prime Minister's friendship, who is known only by the half country as "Customshop" and Lőrinc, can, without further ado, leave a dirty billion dollars out of his declaration of assets. I'll tell you honestly, you're a long way from the end of the line, and you can ask someone for transparency. Of course, the interest of the state is far more important than who asks for it. By the way, the public opinion that thinks the same thing about you is quite wide. But the interests of the state are more important than that. But these organisations are still on the table, you could see which organisations have a more transparent, credible and detailed balance sheet, such as, for example, the CÖF or, for example, one of the charitable organisations, which my fellow Member, István Hollik, has smuggled by a minimum of people, which otherwise stand by refugees. Your experts have said that it is very difficult to separate charities and human smugglers, it is very difficult, but they can do it. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's about defenders!]] Your experts have said it's very difficult, but of course it can be distinguished. Or are you going to admit that you can't do that then? So charities and smugglers should not be confused, even if this is in their short-term political interest. However, the fact that, in addition to the government, there is a Civil Alliance Forum, which forms public life and public speaking, where even the name is not true, because that Fidesz people dressed in the Civil are, right, this is the CÖF, and with that organization you are installing the country. I wonder how much budget this NGO has, what cost it gets these posters, who prepare these creative materials. And that, for some reason, it's always in your political interest, somehow it's always your political campaign, your prelude, or your afterglow. Somehow, he's in some incredible synergy, and you're thinking infinitely together, which is obviously okay. You now think and say that this is in the interests of the Hungarians. I think it is in the interests of the Hungarians to get to know the world around them as widely as possible, and you are building walls around them - and not always just brick and wire and fences, because not for their safety, but in order to see anything from the world around us. You have reached the point where you no longer need to learn a foreign language, because in the end, you will be able to read a foreign newspaper, watch a foreign news report, and you will accidentally say the same thing as the M1. You know, Soros recipe, independent media. The M1 is independent of what, ladies and gentlemen? [[A statement from Jobbik: The opposition! Defiance.]] Well, that does. [[14.50]] Young people no longer need to learn a language, otherwise they don't have to study public studies, because their horizons would be wide. Now, there was one thing left to do, there are committed civil society organisations that have worked for the past 60 years, that would teach the doctrines, those ideas and those methods in the coming period, and would do so at an otherwise high level, recognised at European level, well, then you will embellish them into the ground. This is not because it is in the interests of the Hungarians, no, it is in your short-term political interest. Possibly, the propaganda industry measured this with a large-scale poll, looked at who it was, what the enemy image we needed at this very moment. It was necessary to realize that those who came here again, Meranies, foreigners, and teach Hungarians things that you do not like, and then you immediately embellish them into the ground, but without thinking, not thinking about what long-term consequences this has. Gentlemen! Those who always see the next step fail, the third, the fourth, especially not the fifth, but from you, that's what we could expect. A generation who does not speak a foreign language will grow up again, a generation of subjects of public knowledge will have a lower education than those before and after, and then you will be amazed that there is such an exodus in Hungary. Well, what perspective are you opening up? ! What is your perspective compared to what is now available to everyone? They take themselves, go to Austria, Germany for higher wages, get more normal care, and it doesn't matter that education, health care, whatever we're talking about, we're talking about public services, there's a free expression of opinion, and maybe it's better to live in that environment. So, your civil perception, as far as I can see, is very similar to Islamic religious freedom. Islam also has religious freedom, but it is free to choose only Islam. In your opinion, there is one kind of civilian who does your work, who does your ideas without any criteria, criticism, comment or anything else as a mameluk. And the fact that you're here is that we're being examined, ladies and gentlemen, you were probably members of MSZMP, we couldn't even be pioneers. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It wasn't any more.]] We couldn't even be pioneers. [[Attila Petneházy: I resent it!]] Don't ask for it. I'll give it to you. [[Agnes Kunhalmi is laughing.]] We couldn't even be pioneers, just like we did in 2006. Let the 20-year-old stand up. At least at this time there should be so many criticisms in István Hollik, and don't teach people that this can be said without further ado, don't teach the Hungarians to come in here, make a circus here in Parliament, say what they want, what they write in one of the departments or in one of the companies of the Habony works, read it without any criticism, and then leave this House. These are not arguments, or arguments, but they are against you, because actually, if Soros had someone trained and Soros supported someone, then they were you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Agnes Kunhalmi applauds.]]
u2017-04-19-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask István Vitányi, on behalf of the rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. [[István Szávay: Shame on you! We talked for four and a half hours. Well, what kind of construct is that?!]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity, recasting, and draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity, also recasting, and a joint general debate on the proposal for a decision adopting it, pending closure follows. The report submitted by the Committee on European Affairs B/15096, and the proposal for a decision H/15097. It is available to all of them on the Parliament's IT network. I would remind you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, Parliament will discuss the proposals with a derogation from the House Rule and as an EU item. First, I give the floor to Mr Richárd Hörcsik, rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, author of the report and the proposal for a decision, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman, as President of the Commission.
u2017-04-19-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the Parliament decided by a majority of more than 4/5 to derogate from the house rules in order to allow the House to discuss today the two motions made by the Committee on European Affairs, which Mr President was pleased to mention. The two legislative proposals on the agenda that we have examined by the Committee would lay down rules on the internal market in electricity. This was presented by the European Commission in 2016, i.e. on 30 November of last year, with a very nice, soundy title: "Clean energy for all Europeans! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. This is a package of measures, which includes the following two legislative proposals, namely the draft regulation on the internal market in electricity and the draft directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, These two legislative proposals are closely linked, part of the same package as I mentioned, and it is therefore appropriate that we partly save time to negotiate the two legislative proposals together. Yesterday, at yesterday's meeting, the Committee on European Affairs noted that the examination of the principle of subsidiarity was legally possible, as the eight-week deadline for sending Parliament's reasoned opinion for the draft directive expires on 9 May 2017 and on 17 May 2017 for the draft regulation. Mr President, For the fifth time in the plenary session of the Parliament, we are conducting a so-called subsidiarity inquiry. I would like to remind my fellow Members that this is a special parliamentary procedure under the second Protocol to the Lisbon Treaty which aims to enable national parliaments to express their views on the draft EU legislation and, if necessary, by joint action, to prevent the EU institutions from exceeding their delegated powers. I believe that the Members have learned last year, and we have learned that the so-called reasoned opinion of Parliament is only worth accepting on a matter of outstanding importance. I believe that this is the case in this case with these proposals, since these may have social and economic consequences that justify the conduct of Parliament's inquiry. The two above-mentioned EU proposals, in particular the adoption of draft directives on common rules for the internal market in electricity, would indeed have a strong impact on the financial situation of ordinary citizens and families. To put it bluntly, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the fact that, if the draft directive was adopted, there would indeed be a risk of a reduction in the costs of electricity which was felt in the citizens' pockets, and that what the civilian government has achieved over the past year and a half would be put at risk by the joint effort of the electorate, if it pleases, against the Brussels Commission, representing the interests of multinational companies. [[15.00]] It is clear that the draft EU directive would make public intervention in the pricing of electricity subject to strict conditions within five years of its entry into force during the transitional period. It would then fully refer to the Commission's so-called discretionary competence to decide. Ladies and gentlemen, In our opinion, national regulatory price regulation is one of the necessary means of keeping energy prices at affordable levels for retail consumers. Hungary also applies regulatory price regulation for retail electricity prices. Article 5 of the draft directive would limit this current option to an extent that would in effect lead to its abolition. The fundamental weakness of the draft directive, ladies and gentlemen, is that it ignores the fact that the energy sector is an extremely specific segment of the economy, and therefore the liberalisation of the energy market, the introduction of regulated prices, has shown that it does not increase competition but leads to significant price increases. When, therefore, honourable Members, the draft EU directive before us proposes to close the administrative price by the deadline, we do not believe that it takes into account the serious economic difference between the individual Member States. Yesterday, Secretary of State Aradsk, in our committee, said that the situation of consumers in Eastern Europe is completely different, and that per capita income is 70 per cent of the EU average, while household energy costs are twice the EU average in relation to their income. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Let me briefly summarise the experience of the so-called subsidiarity study carried out in the Committee on European Affairs as time progresses. The draft regulation on the internal market in electricity proposes the introduction of new rules which, without taking into account the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in our view, unduly exceed the powers conferred on the European Union. Firstly, there is an increase to the EU level of decisions on the capacity mechanism, which violates the principle of subsidiarity, since there is no reason why it is not possible at national level to eliminate market disturbances in this way. The breach of the principle of subsidiarity is mainly due to the application of the mechanisms set out in Articles 18 to 24 of the draft regulation. The capacity mechanism is an existing practice designed to address market disruption. The aim of the mechanism is to provide electricity in the medium to long term so that supply can cover needs and needs of the population. In principle, the capacity available or to be newly built by capacity providers is provided with additional revenue from State aid in accordance with the legislation. The draft regulation sets out as a new element among the general requirements for the introduction of capacity mechanisms that, contrary to current practice, the Member States' proposal should be based on a European resource conformity assessment. Another problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that the draft regulation does not take into account cost-efficiency aspects and does not require an analysis of any economic aspects. Thus, there is an easy possibility that a potential capacity mechanism will significantly increase the cost of addressing a future capacity shortage. The question of subsidiarity is raised by the indirect withdrawal of the definition of the energy mix in the Member States by the draft regulation. Here, the production capacity determined by the investment decisions taken after the entry into force of the Regulation pursuant to Article 23 (4) shall comply with the emission limit value of 550 grams/CO2/kilowattór, which clearly excludes coal-fired power plants from the capacity mechanism. In this context, the above emission limit may put coal-based electricity production at a disadvantage, and in the case of those Member States, for example Poland or Romania, which are based to a significant extent on the production of coal-based electricity, this provision constitutes an indirect limitation of the energy mix definition. Ladies and gentlemen, In our view, it violates the principle of subsidiarity that the draft regulation would bring some elements of the Member States' electric transmission system operator's responsibilities to the regional level. They would set up regional operational centres with independent decision-making powers, which, in our view, is contrary to the fact that the EU Member State is otherwise responsible for security of supply. The establishment of a regional operational centre therefore severely limits the possibility for Member States to intervene in the interests of security of supply. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, the Committee on European Affairs discussed the draft regulation and directive for the second time and adopted the report and the draft decision by 6 votes in favour with 2 abstentions after the debate. The latter states that the draft regulation on the internal market in electricity and the draft directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity violate the principle of subsidiarity. Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, I referred to the fact that the subsidiarity assessment could have a real political impact if several national parliaments adopted a reasoned opinion on the same legislative proposal, so-called reasoned opinions. This is what the German Bundestag and the Bundesrat have done, and they have adopted a reasoned opinion on the draft regulation, i.e., as I said in my speech before the agenda, they have shown the European Commission a yellow card and such a reasoned opinion can be expected from my seym. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention here that the President of the EU Committee of the Polish Lower House, Isabela Kloc, has drawn our attention to these two problematic proposals. We must now work to ensure that as many national parliaments as possible object to the European Commission's drafts. I believe there's still a good time for that. I would like to thank you for the close cooperation of the Ministry of National Development and the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office for European Union Affairs in the course of the procedure with Parliament's Committee on European Affairs, so in my view I can safely say with the necessary information that our committee has come to the conclusion that the two legislative proposals are in breach of the principle of subsidiarity on the basis of clear reasons. Finally, I would like to thank the colleagues of the Committee on European Affairs, László Juhász and Csaba Tamás for their excellent work. I would ask my fellow Members to support H/15097. A proposal for a decision was adopted as soon as possible. Thank you for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-04-19-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr András Aradski, State Secretary, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. András Aradski: Yes.]] I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-19-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the European Commission published a clean energy for all Europeans on 30 November 2016! The package of proposals contains rules, guidelines on the basis of which it is justified to examine the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. [[15.10]] This package has a relatively well-defined and undisputed objective of introducing legislative frameworks that better integrate renewable sources into the current electricity system and serve consumers by completing a consumer-centred, flexible, competitive internal energy market in order to increase renewable energy use. I must make it clear that we are basically supporting the implementation of the Energy Union adopted at the end of 2015. It can be stated, however, that "Clean energy" for all Europeans! We disagree with some of the detailed rules set out in the package of proposals, and these are the detailed rules that Mr President has just listed. According to the draft regulation on the internal market in electricity, the new rules for the establishment of capacity mechanisms are a dereliction because, so far, it is the responsibility of the Member States to develop methodology, but now the responsibility for supply remains the responsibility of the Member States, whereas the methodology and methodology of capacity mechanisms must be implemented on the basis of the results of a European resource conformity assessment. I believe that this duality also shows that it is not certain that this measure is proportionate to the methodology so far, even because, as I said, the responsibility remains at the level of the Member States, thereby violating the principle of subsidiarity. However, there is an important provision limiting the definition of an energy mix according to which coal power plants which do not meet the limit values of 550 grams/CO2/kilowatto are excluded from the capacity mechanism. This clearly indirectly affects the Member State's right to determine which energy sources are being used to ensure energy supply. I must say that this provision is also of concern, and I must say most importantly that it is interesting that the European Union's exposure to external energy sources is very high. I am thinking, first of all, of gas in the Russian direction, and the exclusion of coal power plants from the capacity mechanism in this way results in the lack of spare capacity being replaced by a gas power plant in the European Union and the source of gas power plants and the purchase of natural gas in Russia in the majority. It may not have been the intention in advance, but it is certain, but it may not be a coincidence that the Nord Stream I and II. A significant amount of Russian gas flows into Germany via the pipeline, while this provision excludes the coal power plants in Europe, which are locally produced in Europe, especially in Poland and Romania. I must also add that the creation of regional operating centres is also rather dim. The terms of operation of the draft regulation are laid down only on a principle level. Their geographical boundaries and areas of operation are not defined, but their granting of decision powers is a significant violation of regional cooperation based on already well-functioning voluntary cooperation. Hungary is a good example of this: in relation to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, the cooperation of system controllers is particularly good, and during particularly difficult periods they can work together to ensure security of supply from the point of view of Hungary and other countries. What may be most painful for us, and most unjustified, is a draft directive that violates the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, and that is a draft directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity, Article 5 of this directive, which would prohibit regulatory price regulation in the field of electricity. This regulatory price regulation could be maintained for five years from the date of adoption of the Regulation, but still in a narrower segment for consumers living in domestic or energy poverty to be protected. You have rightly said, Mr Member and Mr President, that this draft directive is unthinkable and does not take into account the different characteristics of the Member States, nor does it take into account the experience of the fact that where a market price has been applied instead of a regulated price for the last 6-8 years, electricity prices have increased everywhere, compared with those countries where the regulated price has been applied. Hungary is a good example of this, because Hungary has reduced energy prices in Hungary compared to the 20-25 percent increase in consumer prices in the EU, with about 27 percent electricity prices and 36 percent gas prices in Hungary. The reason for abolishing the official price is to disturb the market. Please respectfully, the market has not become larger, there have been no more operators in places where the price of electricity has otherwise been charged at market prices and the price of electricity can be priced. This experiential fact shows that competition has not increased, but, as I mentioned earlier, this has led to significant price increases, and a very important element, which Mr President has also said, and I must stress this once again, that, in view of the electricity price in Hungary, which is low in the EU comparison, as I have mentioned, it is still necessary to say that the share of expenditure on energy prices in household total expenditure is higher than the EU average. This does not appear in the text of the draft directive itself, but we have also received an impact assessment, which explicitly states that the draft cannot take due account of the social and economic specificities of the Member States. I believe that these facts and the reasons given by the President are valid reasons for Hungary's participation in this so-called yellow flat procedure. I must say that professional debates are kept at a constant level by the portfolio, continuing with the European Union, Brussels, trying to explain what has been said here in greater depth and with greater professional detail, but in any case this is also a political struggle, to which Parliament's proper decision is very helpful. We can therefore support this initiative from the State Secretary for Energy of the NFM, but it is not yet possible to present an official government position, and I will describe it at the later stages of the parliamentary procedure. Once again, we need political support to protect our values in the energy market. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. [[15.20]]
u2017-04-19-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing a very important agenda, because it is not only about the issues of electricity supply and the Energy Union, but it is also about the government's internal political aspirations that are being included in this agenda today. President Hörcsik has tried to say the principle of subsidiarity a thousand times - I have full sympathy - which in his dialect is little of subsidiarity; say it as a decision on the spot, and then it can be understood in Hungarian. Listening to the speakers before me, I became more and more attached to the feeling that the government and the government side were in a state of schizophrenic schizophrenia, which was also confirmed by the professionally correct prelude of Secretary of State Aradski, which he began by believing in the Energy Union, and we support, but not the details that are in front of us. I can honestly say that with this one sentence, I myself am the same, because these details contain elements that need criticism. You are right, Mr Secretary, that the details here are a little rough, not those that would help a voluntary transition, a natural development. At times, the design of the Energy Union is not as precise as it should be, but the real reason is to show a yellow card, in my opinion, is quite different from what you have just presented here. I'd like to ask you a few questions. Why do I say that this justification is pursuing a false argument system, the political overtones that really have an internal political purpose to stop Brussels? Because those who are anti-EU in Hungary are also the enemy of the HUF 10-12 thousand coming from the EU, and no one can seriously accept this. There could not be a 3 percent increase in GDP in Hungary if 5-6 percent of EU funds did not flow in. So you can't be serious about this. Here the justification is involved, not by profession, but by other political reasoning or understanding, which I consider to be extremely harmful, and as I am speaking to your experts, it is in fact foreign to them. I see that in Hungary there are those who understand the essence of the Energy Union, and the profession is actually acting accordingly, but at the same time the policy is relegated to the weaknesses of this process, and to goals that have only an internal political and, in principle, a beneficial aspect for Fidesz, they distort real professional judgement. Let me ask you a few questions, maybe you'll think a little bit. How is it that, while Hungary was a signatory to the Paris climate agreement, the Hungarian government is struggling to continue to build coal power plants with state aid? I would like to note that the 550 grams - which I do not have to say the exact unit of measurement, because I do not know, is included in the exact descriptions, but the number, I think, is correct, is that 550 grams - excludes state-supported coal power plants. If someone thinks that it is worth it to build a coal power plant on a market basis, along with paying the CO2 emissions quota afterwards, it can continue to be. The state signing a climate agreement and then submitting to the attempt to stop contaminating the air itself with carbon dioxide, I think, in fact, it would be in line. So I believe that your argument is at least contradictory. Or here is one of the arguments or outbursts of Minister Szijjártó, who wants to push Romania and Croatia one day to comply with EU rules, to dissolve, I quote, the southern energy blockade against Hungary, because it is currently not possible to transport gas to Hungary on the Hungarian-Croatian or Hungarian-Romanian pipeline, but vice versa, while on the other day the Minister of State creates a problem with regional cooperation, so that we do not accept the rule that regional management centres could have certain rights. This is surprising, because with simple kitchen logic it is possible to decide that if Hungary has a system management resource in order of conformity, it is also possible to debate the order of conformity of a regional resource, and we can see that a larger energy base is based on this, too, that it provides much more opportunities to select cheaper energy than a narrower energy source. Thus, the general economic principle of size efficiency can in any case be applied in a regional cooperation. I think we should try this way. So to argue that we are in breach of our rights, while our options would be extended to establish an optimism from a much wider energy spectrum, at least contradictory, so we should be prepared to think. Or here's the question of the prices you've mentioned a lot. There's quite a lot of falseness in this for you. How is it that, while European wholesale electricity prices decreased by 70 percent compared to 2008, European wholesale gas prices have decreased by more than 50 percent since 2013, while the Hungarian population has been paying the same tariff for three years compared to 2013? If this decline trend has been taken seriously, it should have been enforced in the official prices in your hands today. The tariffs for retail and market consumers should have been reduced, i.e. industrial consumers. Another comparison on price issues. When the world market price for oil was 100 forints per barrel - I suppose no one disputes that the world market price for oil and gas prices are strongly correlated - so when there was a barrel of oil in 2009, the price of gas was below 100 forints. After that, for the next three years, you have nicely raised it to 134 forints, and as a result of your incredibly high energy reduction, when the oil price per barrel is below $50, we are paying HUF 101. I think that this shows some discretion, and we need to be further compared. I'll tell you more numbers that are very talkative. How is it that, while the oil price was $50 in 2005, there was a retail gas price of around 50 forints, in 2006 the gas price was 60 forints in Hungary, then tell us why we are paying 101 forints for gas today at the $50 oil price? Where is the protection of residential prices here? I don't see it. These numbers don't support it. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's communication in this area is confusing and false, so let's try to sort through these categories and start at the beginning. The European Union is inherently an economic community. This is how it started 60 years ago; you forgot to remember this, but it is no problem, and now you think that this is of little benefit to Hungary, even though, if you think about it, one of the great achievements of the Union is that there is a customs union. This means that there are uniform customs duties on the basis of uniform rules and that in-house barriers to trade are removed from one point to another. The purpose of the Energy Union in the field of fixed-line energy is essentially the same, or at least very similar, but the obstacles to electricity and natural gas must be removed here. [[15.30]] As with other commercial products, as with this special energy product, the removal of barriers can result in lower prices and stability of supply. This means that outwards, united action can help to ensure security of energy supply and improve the negotiating positions of procurement. I say the extreme value: if a 500 million energy market tries to negotiate procurements in a single way, it can achieve a much better position than a 10 million-dollar Hungary. Inside, building infrastructure, strengthening regional cooperation can also help solidarity, creating a genuine competitive market, resulting in many products, at least in the market for normal products, being more competitive and cheaper than just looking at a narrow market. So, ultimately, energy is becoming more and more a common commodity, so the price can also be reduced. Over the last 15-20 years, the European Union's internal market regulation has been in this direction, and it is fundamentally different now than it was 10 years ago. Different in the legal system, different in institutional conditions, also significantly different in physical infrastructure. MOL's efforts in infrastructure and the development of interconnectors have been very valuable, taking advantage of these opportunities through plans, through the use of financial opportunities and through the involvement of EU funds. The supply market, good network infrastructure, uniform rules and solidarity will also help to increase security of supply. So we do not need to think that cooperation with our neighbours is damaging Hungarian security of supply, because it is the other way around. If we can get help from our neighbors, we have better security of supply than just being on our own. There is no good solution only within national frameworks, but only a better solution in the framework of regional cooperation, and this can create a new situation. Instead of the relationship between the centre, the developed centre and the periphery, we need to think in a network and in cooperation. The Energy Union connects the region to the European energy market and strengthens competitiveness and security of supply. A well-functioning competitive market reduces prices, but the conditions for operating the market need to be established. Again, European wholesale electricity prices have decreased by 70 percent since 2008. It's a trend that can't be ignored. At the same time, wholesale gas prices in the Union have decreased by more than 50 percent since 2013. This is also the result of the Energy Union. This is also the result of the fact that the European internal energy market has been able to train the fall in oil prices, precisely by building the infrastructure that has taken place on the world market. The question is why this did not appear in the Hungarian end-user prices. Why have Hungarian end-user prices not changed if environmental prices and purchasing prices have decreased by 50 percent since 2013? You share the same perception of end-user prices and are talking about protecting the reduction of the overhead. That's what I say to falseness. That's not something a serious professional would do. Fellow Members! In the proposal for a decision, which was brought here, and in the argument system in the report, it reflects an extremely outdated energy policy approach 30 years ago, an introvert, and the objections do not really hold up. In contrast to the objectives of the Energy Union, the supplier, the most important supplier, i.e. Russia, would be the sole beneficiary of national frameworks and energy policy within the borders of the country. Not the Hungarian consumers. Hungary has no interest in this. The successful implementation of the Energy Union is in Hungary's interest. Fellow Members! Now the President of the Commission, Richard Hörcsik, on behalf of the Government, says that the Energy Union is a threat to the benefits of the reduction of costs. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, You are endangering the benefits of the reduction because you could have reduced the price of energy two years ago. But they didn't. For years, the Fidesz government has been giving retail gas, electricity and district heating more expensive than it costs. The price of natural gas has been halved since 2014, and oil can be obtained 60-70 percent cheaper on the world market, while Hungarians have been paying the same tariff for two years, which you say is low. That's just not true. It's unworthy, unfair. Someone's winning here. They mention a company called MET, which already drains this certain margin out of the country. How is it that in 2005 the gas price was 60 forints at a 50-dollar oil price in Hungary, and in 2006 at a 60-dollar oil price the gas price was 60 forints, so why does the Hungarian citizen have to pay twice as much, 101 forints for gas at a 50-dollar price today? It's hard to explain, these are extremely stubborn facts. The Hungarian Socialist Party supported all previous price reduction measures. So what you're saying isn't true. There was a problem when it was wrapped in something that couldn't be accepted. If they wag their heads now, I'll tell them we're in favor of a price reduction. When the oil price went up from $40 to $100, we had to increase the price of gas, but then we introduced a social tariff, and we moderated the impact of this on small retail consumers. Take a look at the voting behaviour, you can't argue with that. On the other hand, you have said no to our proposal nine times in the last two and a half years, which concerned a reasonable price reduction. So we submitted the proposal for a price reduction to the Hungarian Parliament, and you voted against it nine times, and nine times you said no. What kind of overhead cuts are you talking about? You are maintaining unduly high prices in Hungary today. In addition, public gas supply and wholesale are in the hands of the state. Public ownership is also decisive in the electricity sector. Why don't you give me the gas and the light at a cheaper price? Why don't you want to push down prices through your own companies? Why don't you want to enforce existing strong state positions in the competition? I could do that. They could cut prices. Whether there's price control or not, state firms can give power for as much as they want. I am very sorry to be distracted by the Secretary of State for Energy because I am going to go to one of those details, Secretary of State Aradski, if you don't mind talking to Pogács. [[Dr. András Aradski: I don't mind. I already know him. Gyula Vantara: Briefly.]] What? Should I bother you? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If you'll understand, I can say it in a very concise manner for the third time. It doesn't cost as much electricity and it doesn't cost as much gas as you give it. In addition to such vast public ownership, it would be cheaper to deliver this product to the consumer on a market basis. Thus, the position of the State in the energy sector was not strengthened in such a way that the consumer would benefit from it. Moreover, they are not talking about the general introduction of price regulation in relation to the draft EU directive, because this is not included in the EU directive. Public pricing may remain for low energy consumers, i.e. low energy prices and vulnerable consumers, and public pricing may also remain for system usage charges accounting for around half of the electricity price. [[15.40]] So all this remains in the hands of the state, according to the proposal for a directive, according to the directive, which, in my opinion, is not good, so the yellow flat procedure is justified. We are abstaining because, not according to this argument system, which you have drawn up - so system usage charges, which account for about half of the final consumer price, remain the possibility of state price regulation under the directive. Moreover, today's price regulation requires that it cannot be permanently and significantly diverted from market prices, i.e. current retail universal service prices must also be market-based. On the basis of EU rules, Hungary does not comply with this, as it applies higher prices to the population. Let us not forget that between 2010 and 2012, the Fidesz government raised both the electricity and natural gas retail prices by more than 30 percent in three steps. So you increased the price by 30 percent between 2010 and 2012 and then went back 25 percent when a reduction of 50 percent was justified. Fellow Members! The government also says that regional cooperation, taking certain decisions at regional level violates the principle of subsidiarity, endangers security of supply and the independence of the Hungarian state; this is difficult to imagine on the basis of the reasons that I have opposed your argument. What would be wrong with closer regional cooperation to reduce energy prices for industrial consumers in Hungary? For example, this could be ensured by regional cooperation. They laughed at the committee meeting when it was said that the coordination of the regulation of the regional electricity system in Scandinavia has been going back more than twenty years, because Central Europe, Eastern Central Europe, is not Scandinavia, but our goal is to achieve something so advanced, such as advanced society, such advanced care. In the north, security of supply is even more important, because there they simply freeze when something is missing, so I think it would be worth learning from them. Why are you disavowing yourself from learning from a practice that is already showing results? Some decisions need to be taken at regional level because they can lead to better results; this was also missed by Minister Péter Szijjártó when Romania and Croatia lacked compliance with EU rules from neighbouring countries. With regard to the electricity market, why would there be a problem of interoperability back and forth, of expanding the network of cross-border capacities, of strengthening them? Regional cooperation clearly strengthens security of supply and is a false approach to breaching the definition of an energy mix in national competence; it remains a national competence. The fact that Hungary has adopted certain aspects of climate protection, what it wants to enforce in the field of clean energy, naturally brings up certain environmental aspects, but what the final source of compliance list will have to be contested is not solved by rejecting it now and we do not want to participate in this. Finally, the government also says that the Commission's draft regulation wants to intervene indirectly in this particular energy mix definition, in the regulation of capacity mechanisms. On the one hand, would the Hungarian government really lobby for the construction of coal power plants, while signing the reduction of our CO2 emissions with all objections and strong support with the Paris Climate Agreement? That's a contradiction somewhere. By the way, the construction of gas plants will continue to be eligible for 550 grams under State aid. I also have a further suggestion that this objection, which you object to, only concerns what kind of power plants the government itself can support. It is natural that Hungary is interested in building renewable energy sources, even because we are getting quite serious EU funds in this respect. So this should not be done by the Hungarian government, it should not be financed by the Hungarian government, or it should not be fully financed by the Hungarian government, so that these renewable energy capacities can be built up, and there is EU funds for this. I don't think it's stupid to live with that. So it would also be good to hear about this when we talk about the promotion of the Energy Union, not only about the false arguments of the reduction of the rent, which, as I have proven, is lagging behind, should have been reduced by now. Overall, there may be room for improvement in the draft EU legislation, so I agree with what the Secretary of State said, that this draft may have been exaggerated in certain details, especially as regards the operation of regional centres, so this yellow flat procedure may be justified, so we do not say that we do not support it, but this argument, which has been put before us, is simply lame. You have not implemented the reduction in the costs, and on the basis of purchasing prices, a much higher price reduction could have been applied, thus excluding Hungary from a regional cooperation that could subsequently have a significant security of supply benefit, a significant cost reduction benefit, and thus a noticeable price reduction benefit. So I really do not understand why, in the draft EU legislation, the yellow flat procedure is being conducted along such a false line of thought, why they do not emphasise the real, forward-looking, constructive criticisms on which this EU proposal would be better, and it would reveal what the Secretary of State said that Hungary does have an interest in implementing the Energy Union. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-19-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-04-19-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to Congressman Józsa, before I make my point, allow me a few thoughts, as we did in the Committee on European Affairs. When it makes price comparisons and refers to different oil prices, it would have been good if it had said one thing: what is the price of electricity now in Germany and Hungary: one third of German prices in Hungary, one of them. The other part is when, in his last thoughts, he puts out what the provisions of EU funds can be and what Minister for Foreign Affairs Szijjártó has objected to. That is precisely the problem, honourable Member, that there were indeed and there are European Union funds for cross-border interconnectors, but they have not been implemented. So when the Minister for Foreign Affairs talks about the need to implement these points, he says that it is possible to make use of it, so that the gas can not only go in that direction, but also towards Hungary. The other is what we also discussed at the committee meeting. The Scandinavian example has been set, but he forgets to say, Mr President, that in Scandinavia, the natural conditions, the gas production capacity of Norway in their environment, the available water energy and others can make energy security much more homogeneous than in a Central European region. I think that the discussion of these issues is real if we say this in detail here. The Swedish economy, either the Norwegian economy or the Finnish economy, is essentially decades ahead of us, and everything you have talked about has evolved, but it should have been said in the end. On 30 November 2016, the European Commission presented Clean Energy to all Europeans! We are talking about the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity and the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity. [[15.50]] That is why I took the liberty of bringing up the example of electricity prices, which is in Germany and in Hungary, which proves that we can indeed deliver on the electricity prices that we have put forward so far. Part of the package is the implementation of the Energy Union, with a particular emphasis on energy efficiency, with a focus on renewable energy sources and the desire to achieve a stable energy supply and an integrated energy market, as well as regulated energy prices. So it is stated that regulated energy prices must be driven out. With regard to the draft regulation and the draft directive, it is important to point out that they actually limit the room for manoeuvre of the Member States in defining the energy mix for those countries. It is simply a fact that this is indeed limited in terms of energy mixes, and it should be noted here that when the various representatives of the European Commission speak of the increase in the role of national parliaments, their stealth behaviour comes here, that they actually want to limit the possibility of national parliaments at all. There are indirect and direct instruments for this in the draft, contrary to the fact that Member States have the right to define their own energy mix as enshrined in the Treaty. It can therefore be said that several elements of the regulation violate the principle of subsidiarity, as Mr President has said, and that Mr Józsa has repeatedly referred to it. I would just like to point out, as an example, that the regulation raises to regional level certain elements of the tasks of the Member States' public electricity transmission system operators; it would create regional operating centres with independent decision-making powers. On the one hand, you consider this to be absolutely good, and this cooperation works. What works also works on this basis if it simply does not limit Member States' responsibilities and Member States' price regulation. After all, security of supply must always be ensured by the country with the tasks defined by its own nation. If this can now be done through regional centres, then I ask: where is our own responsibility, our own role, so that we can participate in this? And these were just a few examples, but the package of measures has, as we have already said, a far more adverse element than that of Hungary, according to which price regulation really appears in terms of electricity. This is basically - in our view and in the view of the Christian Democrats - a matter of sovereignty, but on the other hand it also includes the possibility of participation in dynamic pricing, which explains that in Hungarian it also provides an opportunity to raise prices for those involved in this regional system. In practice, this seeks to abolish the right to set national prices in the case of electricity. Although Mr President said that in the socialist argument there could indeed be an opportunity for those who need it more to be given some opportunity, but once again, it is much simpler not to be based on EU rules, once it is against the principle of subsidiarity, but to be able to set prices on the basis of our own powers. With this, we want to set prices for Hungarian families and Hungarian households, but also for the Hungarian economy. Therefore, the Parliament Committee on European Affairs has submitted a proposal for a decision adopting a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity and a proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity for the adoption of a reasoned opinion. And I, as I said at the committee meeting, for more than a decade as a member of the Committee on European Affairs, believe that it is important that Hungary actually takes this opportunity, which, in fact, Mr Józsa has said somewhere that there are elements that we really need to apply the yellow flat procedure. Under the proposal for a decision, Parliament may conclude that the draft regulation and draft directive violate the principle of subsidiarity and invite the President of Parliament to forward the reasoned opinion contained in the report to the President of the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission and to inform the Government at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 6 March, the Committee on European Affairs, as has been said, the Secretary of State, briefed us in detail on the draft Council regulation of the European Parliament and on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity and on the main elements thereof, as he has already done here. Subsequently, the Committee on European Affairs concluded that examination of the subsidiarity principle was legally possible and that the Committee on European Affairs had also formulated and adopted its position. Raising decisions on the capacity mechanism to EU level violates the principle of subsidiarity; the indirect withdrawal of the definition of the energy mix in the Member States raises a question of subsidiarity; the exclusive use of the analysis based on the source-side security of supply methodology as an assessment supporting the introduction of the capacity mechanism, and the increasing of certain elements of the Member States' electricity transmission system managers' responsibilities to regional level also violates the principle of subsidiarity. The creation of regional operational centres with independent decision-making powers, as we have just said, is also, in our view, a violation of security of supply. The Committee on European Affairs has also pointed out that the European Commission's efforts threaten Hungarian national independence and the social security of Hungarian families. The proposal aims to reduce national powers by regulating the prices of electricity in the internal market and electricity prices at EU level. To the detriment of Member States and national competences, the European Commission would refer the right to decide and therefore violate the principle of subsidiarity. Indeed, these efforts have greatly influenced what the Hungarian government has achieved so far with the reduction of the rent. And our job is to enforce this and try to prevent it, and that's what this yellow flat procedure is all about. Ladies and gentlemen, In this regard, it is also important to say what Mr President has already said that there have been various opinions from Member States on the matter, which are also in line with the Hungarian position. If these were not so, I would say once again that we should fully represent the opinion that my fellow Member Józsa said, but Mr President said that the German example, the Polish example, and many examples in the Member States are similar to the opinion that Hungary represents on this issue. Because Member States also consider the right to determine the energy mix to be a matter of sovereignty. There should be a balance between the competences of the Union, regional and Member States. In addition to strengthening regional cooperation, it is also important to emphasise the responsibility of the Member States, which ensures the competence of each Member State in the decisions outlined. There is also an important element of the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of national energy and climate plans, which was issued in November 2016. This proposal for a regulation is for ten years and requires integrated national energy and climate plans covering all dimensions of the Energy Union, which summarises the plans currently drawn up separately in one document. While we agree with the simplification efforts, we believe that greater leeway should be given to achieving the objectives set out in the plans in the Member States. That is why we say that we must submit this yellow flat procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, As in all national cases, the Hungarian government consistently stands up for the interests of Hungarian families, Hungarian households, and for the representation of the Hungarian national interest. Therefore, in addition to the establishment of well-thought-out, coherent regulation, we consistently and firmly stand by the free choice of the energy mix, in the universal service relationship, to maintain price regulation in its own national powers, to maintain the reduction of the rent, to which we have the support of the Hungarian people and to which we ask for it. [[16.00]] Using our instruments, we propose to this House, on behalf of the KDNP fraction, the adoption of a report on the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion. With respect, I thank you for listening to me and for allowing me to express these thoughts. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to make my speech shorter than the previous speakers did, because it is pretty clear that indeed, the Hungarian Parliament has a right to take the appropriate initiative towards the European Parliament if it sees the principle of subsidiarity being violated in an EU legislative act, and this is what is happening at the moment, the Committee on European Affairs has initiated this before the Parliament. So far, it would actually be okay, because it will continue at European Union level and it will be there to see if the subsidiarity principle is really violated. In our view, this injury, the violation of the principle, could have happened, because it is indeed more appropriate to regulate at Member State level issues that directly affect citizens' everyday lives, such as overhead costs and, of course, electricity prices, as this is the case. The government had a package of measures, which we always say, which was essentially a political product, which Jobbik supported and voted here in Parliament from the very beginning. It could be argued whether in recent years this has fulfilled the expectations, or not, it has obviously created a great deal of problems; how the savings have come to pass, it is for people to decide for themselves. In fact, since then there have been significant changes in energy prices in the market, these changes have not been taken into account by officially fixed prices, so not only could they have been an advantage but also a disadvantage for Hungarian citizens when global energy prices have fallen significantly in recent years. Perhaps it would have been more appropriate - we said this in the debates at the time - to conclude that if market prices were lower than this established official price, this official price would sometimes follow market prices. Secondly, what we have always said about the reduction of the overhead is that, in fact, it should not have been introduced in the same way for everyone, but that it also shows social sensitivity to the higher levels of concessions than consumers, or to the lower levels than those on higher incomes, which would have been fairer, but of course this concerns the reduction of the rent, and only part of this proposal, or part of the draft EU legislation on which the report is based, applies to the imposition of public prices, which, as has been said several times here, should have been imposed over five years, but in those five years, it would only be possible for Member States to apply it under different strict conditions. We therefore agree - I repeat once again - that Hungary has the right, the right to do so because of breach of the principle of subsidiarity, and we must do so to initiate such a measure, but we do not necessarily agree that the Hungarian Government has done everything in its power to enable Hungarian citizens to enjoy lower overhead costs, even for the future, regardless of the future measures of the European Union. Because you have known for years, since you have been told in Parliament that the European Union is preparing to deliver the official price, and this has been discussed several times, in various energy policy debates, so it has been expected that in this form you will not be able to protect this regulatory price, this reduction of the rent. However, you have continued to maintain this unchanged, using it as a political tool, rather than allowing households, whether with the support of energy efficiency investments, with much greater support or otherwise, to create a real reduction in the cost of electricity, by using less energy carriers in the first place by households, as they can use more energy-efficient equipment or buildings using various renovations and subsidies. These subsidies have been very minimal in Hungary in recent years, even though, in the longer term, it has been known that, with the introduction of the fourth energy package, it would have been possible to eliminate these benefits, as that is the very point of the Energy Union, with many aspects of which we also do not agree, that, with the help of the Energy Union, the European Union's energy market will become almost one, and that it will be much more exposed to imports, energy imports to the Member States; that is why we do not agree, but of course this can also be the subject of a debate, and we also said that when we discussed the Energy Union here in the National Assembly. However, there are initiatives that are indeed good, if, for example, the bilateral interoperability of cross-border capacities - which we have already talked about a lot about - will be ensured at the stages and at the border sections where this has not yet happened, of course, this is in Hungary's interest. The purpose of the entire Energy Union itself is yet another interesting question. It is rare to hide behind any proposal at European Union level to ensure a level playing field and equal opportunities for all Member States to access energy sources, since, as has already been said, the European Union was established as an economic community, and it is clear that in this community, the current European Union, there are dominant Member States and there are less dominant Member States than the Central and Eastern European region; to talk only about wage differences, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State of Aradsk at the time of introduction, how the Hungarian population could pay the same bills when we are well behind wages in this region. Of course, we do not understand why the government and the governing parties did not support Jobbik's wage union initiative, which is exactly the same for the purpose of raising cohesion funds at European Union level, so that the spending of cohesion funds is carried out in such a way as to ensure that the Eastern European region is caught up in wages, so this huge pay gap should be balanced, not only because, and not primarily, so that Hungarian people can pay higher bills, but also, above all, so that they can live on a higher standard of living, but this is an indispensable measure, because this is the cause of a great deal of trouble and problems. This has also been said here in the head of the Secretary of State. The Energy Union, on the other hand, I think, is more precisely aimed at becoming an appropriate market for energy sources from abroad, both electricity and natural gas. A little detour, but why has the European Union not supported the South Stream gas pipeline and why is it supporting the Nord Stream gas pipeline? That's an interesting question. Because, through the Nord Stream gas pipeline, its capacity is doubled, it will arrive in Germany twice as much natural gas as we will be able to buy back from Germany in Central and Eastern Europe. And, of course, in terms of electricity, it has also been said that Germany has tens of thousands of megawatts of capacity from renewable energy sources, with which, if it has overproduction, it cannot really do anything, so it would also push this onto Eastern European markets, because it cannot regulate itself, it does not have the appropriate regulatory capacity to do so. So the dangers of this Energy Union for Hungary always exist, and Jobbik has always imagined Hungary's energy policy in such a way that we can decide on our energy mix in our own Member States, on what proportion of energy sources we want or what energy production units we want to create and build. The government did the same when the so-called nuclear-carbon-green scenario was decided to build on nuclear energy, coal and renewables, which took place in the previous government cycle when the Parliament accepted this. [[16.10]] Another issue is that this proposal for a directive is now in jeopardy, since coal, as has been said, will fall out of this system if the European Union does not allow installations above 550 grams of CO2 emissions to be built from now on. Therefore, Hungary should not forget that the second largest electricity plant after Paks is the Mátra Power Plant, which is coal-fired, and whose loss would be a huge shortage in Hungarian electricity supply, as Paks' loss would obviously mean. The reason why this is strange is because the news has just been released - even for a sentence on coal - that the association in which MVM and the German electricity supplier RWE are involved, among others, stated that after 2020, they do not want to build coal-based power plants in Europe. We also know that in the Mátra Power Plant, the state, i.e. MVM, is trying to acquire an ever higher share of ownership or even to go to majority ownership. The other owner is RWE, who also stated that they do not want to build a coal power plant after 2020, even though until now it has been said that the Mátra power plant will be expanded with a new block, and thus in the long term here too, if the current block that is still in operation but which will stop in the future is out of the system, then there should be a power generation unit that will replace it. This results in Hungary's lack of electricity generation capacity in the medium term, with thousands of megawatts of deficits, and I think the European Union has a very good idea that we will be able to obtain this from imports thanks to the blessing of the Energy Union, but it is a huge dependence on the country. I am not talking about the possibility that the European Union may not last forever, this is an extreme scenario, but of course it is in the cards, but a country must always be able to stand on its own feet. That is why Jobbik says that centralised energy production networks are still indispensable, but we should increasingly move towards local, more decentralised networks, also towards smaller energy systems, which, of course, raises a lot of questions, but this is the future, and of course, also means the spread of renewable energies. I may seem a little distracted by this proposal before us, but it's all connected to what's written here. In fact, there is a strategy behind this draft directive and not only this directive and draft regulation, but also the whole package, the whole EU energy package, which could affect Hungary's energy security in the longer term if we are not in a sense and we are not paying attention to how we can protect our own energy security. Subsidiarity means that I may have been told by others because the word has been spoken many times, but it actually means making the right decision at the right level. So what can be done most effectively in the Member States' competence, in the most cost-effective way, is not done at European Union level, or even at regional level, but the point is that if the best way to determine at Member State level how to use different capacity mechanisms, or if we want to keep pricing at our own national level, official pricing, then, of course, do not go over our heads at European Union level. Obviously, each Member State must have the right to have access to essential issues such as its own energy supply. For this reason, Hungary has also been... - we have discussed several times with Mr State Secretary here in Parliament and in Parliament; Hungary has also been subject to infringement proceedings for this reason because it has tried to shape its own energy policy and pricing in a way which is not acceptable to the European Union. When it came to the competence of the Utility and Energy Office, the MEKH had the power to regulate prices with the regulation, and the European Union rejected it, and this decision was subsequently withdrawn; when we discussed this in Parliament, it was also said that Hungary could suffer serious damage from this, even from an infringement procedure, if a fine was imposed, if the European Union's governing body decided that Hungary had failed to comply with EU law. It doesn't matter when we think about it, either, that one of our decisions, which we make here in the Hungarian Parliament, will have the consequences. We are trying to take our own path, but because we are members of the European Union, this could mean a fine of up to millions of euros for Hungary, for which, of course, not now, but in a few years' time, it will be up to another government, for the decision that today's governments are making. So these are very responsible and need-to-know decisions, I think. It is natural for all Member States' parliaments to try to take advantage of all their powers that they can use vis-à-vis the European Union. The objection to breach of the principle of subsidiarity is just one, not too strong, otherwise, because if we look at the mechanism of this mechanism, it would not be possible to achieve much otherwise, at least a number of other Parliaments in the Member States would need to make a similar objection to this draft legislation in order to at all make a substantive appeal to the legislator, the Commission, about how it thought this whole procedure. But if there's any result in the end, there's no way to know. It's actually a sign, and it has to be said, obviously, that because Fidesz has colonized the country, let's stop Brussels! It is clear that this is a good thing for them in domestic politics, because in recent days, in weeks, the media have been hearing the news that Brussels is trying to take away the results of the reduction in the amount of money. I do not want to use this item on the agenda to debate the reality of this, because populism is quite strongly suspected in these sentences, and it is clear that the picture is more nuanced. This does not mean that Jobbik, as you like to say about us recently, would have taken the side of Jobbik Brussels, simply sided with common sense, as the Jobbik has always stood there, and we like to consider a decision from all sides before we make it. Hungarians have the right to cheap, affordable and secure energy supplies. There is no party in the Hungarian Parliament who would argue that. The way in which this can be achieved there are differences of views between us, but the principle itself that Hungarian citizens have the right to cheap, safe, affordable and high-quality energy is clearly no one will dispute it. However, we do not want the next year, do we not, to have an election campaign period, the government, by putting aside all kinds of professional foundations and reasons, would only communicate with such a very simple two-bit communication that anyone who is not in favour of this, in any of its initiatives, is on Brussels' side, and is against the reduction of the rent, and that is obviously not important, because this is the initiative of Fidesz, and they are the ones that are reaping the political laurels. We do not want to reap any credit for this, we want Hungary's energy security to continue to exist and be guaranteed in the future, and the governments of this country, regardless of party politics, would strive to minimise our dependence on imports, or, if there is an import dependency, to be as diversified as possible, to come from as many directions as possible and to source energy from as many markets as possible. [[16.20]] Otherwise, it doesn't matter whether the Russian gas comes from the east or from the west, if it's the same Russian gas, then we can't really talk about diversification there, at most we get it from the west more expensive, because even Germany is putting its own profit on it. But it is a fact that Hungary still has significant improvements in this regard, and in order to achieve energy dependence It is also necessary that, if this is a threat from the outside, we fight outwards, if there is a threat from the inside, and the government is preparing to take measures that threaten it, and then, as opposition parties, we raise our voice against the government. In this case, in this proposal for a decision and in the report attached to it, on which it is based, the government's justification and reasoning is written out quite clearly, clearly and intelligibly, we cannot agree 100% either, because it was a bit of an actual political smell, although it is a fact that it is partly justified. But they will never be able to avoid taking a little action and populism on the way to such a resolution proposal. This is about what I wanted to say on this proposal, and we would very much like to see, if such proposals were to be submitted, then they could actually result and could actually represent Hungary's defence and not only serve as a simple internal political tool in the hands of the government. It's true I promised I'd be shorter, but these thoughts came out of me. In any case, I thought I was much shorter than my fellow Member, Józsa. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2017-04-19-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This bill relies on two false statements. According to one, the public energy price introduced by the Orbán government in the residential energy sector is better than the market price in all circumstances. This claim is not true. Another false claim is that public control of system governance is better served by energy independence than by linking European energy systems with their respective management powers. If these two preconditions were true, then it might be worth voting in favour. However, none of them are in a thank-you relationship with reality. If this draft becomes a law, it will not serve the interests of the Hungarian population, but rather the interests of Russia, as well as the most important energy project of the Orbán government, the planned Paks expansion. The government still wants an official price on the retail energy market and is trying to curb the European Energy Union, which would require, among other things, a partial transfer of system management licenses. It is worth examining both intentions more closely, also considering the expected effects. In fact, the government proposal is a counterpoint to an EU energy policy reform package. After a transitional period of more than six years, the European Commission would like public electricity prices in the Member States to be determined not by governments but by market competition rules. It is not so easy to decide at first glance whether it would serve a cheaper or more expensive electricity price. To answer the question, it is worth asking the facts. Let's take a look. The Orbán Cabinet's first, all-inclusive approach is the so-called reduction in overhead, which has now been enlarged to an unlikely size by government communication. You started your governance by increasing energy prices in several steps from 2010 onwards, and then there was a price reduction intervention, resulting in a decrease in household electricity prices of around 15 percent compared to 2010 prices. This would be the huge reduction of the bills that they are so proud of, and which they claim to want to protect from Brussels. They just forget to add that market producer prices in the energy sector have fallen by about 40 percent, i.e. if the market was regulated instead of the government, the energy price would be now not 15 but 40 percent cheaper. The fall in market prices has not been passed on to the people, but has increased the margins of public and private energy suppliers, which means that everyone has won the electricity price in recent years, except for the population. Therefore, there is no evidence that the price of electricity by public authorities is more favourable than market pricing. But let's see what's going on with the system control. Here again, it is appropriate to turn back to the point where prices in the European electricity market are persistently low, due to cheap green energy, which increasingly dominates supply. There are days, especially during summer days or other windy periods, when the market price falls into the negative range due to overproduction of solar and wind power plants, i.e. producers pay to those who take over the electricity. This situation will not change in the foreseeable future, as a huge amount of new renewable capacity enters each year, with a further downward impact on prices. You regularly complain that the import price rate in Hungary is 30-40 percent. It's only half-truth. The number is correct, but it's this high because it's a lot cheaper to import than it is to grow at home. Brand new Hungarian gas plants are untapped because they cannot maintain competition with market prices. It appears that imports will be permanently present on the Hungarian electricity market, as will exports. At peaks of consumption, we have to import, but whatever energy system we choose, there will be periods when excesses are formed, or we will export. It is therefore necessary to prepare for Hungary's integration into the European electricity market, so that we can obtain the missing quantity from any direction at any time and sell what we do not need. This, in other words, a well-functioning and secure market, requires individual governments not to compete with system management individually, but to have some regional level to coordinate production and network capacities. Therefore, there is no Hungarian interest in keeping pricing and system governance in government control. However, there is another interest, not Hungarian, but Russian, which is in favour of maintaining an artificially distorted energy market in order to at least justify the Paks expansion on paper. If prices are regulated by the government, it is easier to establish a price level which makes the expansion of Paks seem to be a profitable investment. If we want official prices, we need to rule out competition, which is an excellent tool if we no longer allow others to access our networks. Your proposal is therefore not of Hungarian interest, but of their own material and political interests, on the one hand, and of the interests of Russia on the other. No one should have any illusions, your propaganda machine does not by chance conceal from domestic citizens the positive consumption impact of the European Energy Union and the security policy dimension of this new step towards European cooperation. You are the great masters of the silence of strategic issues, which we saw last week, when we had to find out from the Iranian press the details of the Hungarian-Iranian nuclear pact, which could not be called a silent or negligible development. But if we recall, in January 2014 the news of Hungarian-Russian nuclear cooperation was also a surprise to the Hungarian public, Viktor Orbán from Moscow said that he managed to commit the Hungarian energy future to the Russian atom for a hundred years. You are talking about the proposal that we are discussing here, and this is obviously what you will continue to say in the future, that we need to protect the reduction in overhead. Anyone who engages in a dispute with you, who dares to argue with you, puts facts or opportunities in perspective, will be accused of attacking the reduction of the rent and pushing George Soros's chariot. This has become the debate culture of Fidesz by 2017, which you represent. [[16.30]] That is why I feel sorry for you and, above all, I feel sorry for Hungary. However, I must say that, on the basis of the arguments I have just put forward, it is also clear that the situation is not as simple as you would like us to see that there is not only a reduction in your rent, it could be much more and much better. In English, energy in Hungary could be significantly cheaper than you claim. What does it depend on, what is the real question here? The real question is how we think about energy. If we think of it as a product that some mammoth companies can continue to produce and can only get to us through public intervention, then we need an official price and a closed energy system. However, the world is not moving towards the Soviet energy model, but in the opposite direction, local energy needs are generated at the point of use, most users are also producing solar cells, and current surpluses can easily be transferred to where there may be a shortage. The Orbán government is constantly talking about reducing costs, but a sustained and sustainable price reduction requires not a nuclear power plant and a state price monopoly, but an increase in energy efficiency, thermal insulation, the replacement of windows and the promotion of renewables. The current bill aims to cement a defective energy system with a Soviet pattern, but Hungary would prefer the European model, which requires the possibility of competing energy production methods and connecting energy networks. This guarantees a long-term affordable overhead and not that all the legislation is adapted to an unnecessary nuclear power plant expansion. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to add a few points to the comments made earlier. Subsidiarity, the concept of subsidiarity, has been said very often - unusually often - between the walls of this House. Obviously, the sociological, political meaning of this concept is used, which has already been explained here by several people with different precisions. So, obviously, it's about making decisions at the lowest possible level, where knowledge is available, where decisions are made, only if something cannot be resolved locally. Dear Fidesz-KDNP, When you argue with this, it has a special charm, tell us what you are doing in this country - by the way, in your principles - subsidiously, which is the area where you give the local level the opportunity to eliminate the county system; you, who are constantly bleeding out the municipalities, leave less and less legal and economic means in your hands; you, who in education are eliminating the possibility of appointment of local directors, putting chancellors and consistors above universities, with ministerial appointments. Is this what serves local self-determination, my fellow Members, to make a decision on the ground? This is very specific, because the term itself - when the government exercises power - is least likely to be taken into consideration, but when it comes up to the problem, they come up at the moment: oh, yeah, there is such a thing! Why don't they just do the same thing in internal politics? I could bring you the metaphor when a child in the kindergarten group aggressively treats everyone for a long time, and then suddenly they catch you on the ear to come on, Pistike, now! Then you'll stop talking for a second, and you'll start a loud tantrum that she's been raped here. Gentlemen, this is what you've been doing for seven years. And now that you feel that your subsidiarity is insulted - by the way, of course, you are right about that - then at that moment, you will start making these arguments in the head. But where's the consistency here? Where is loyalty to their own policies, coherence? Please consider these and draw conclusions not only on energy policy but also on their own government action. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-19-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give you the floor... [[Dr. István Józsa: You spoke well! Gyula Vantara: Very! Dr. István Józsa: Did you recognize yourself?]] Fellow Members! It would be an honor for me to give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki, who asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-04-19-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It was a very substantial and extensive debate, no doubt what I have heard so far, and I have tried very hard to take notes. What I saw was that what the speakers had to say was defined by the explanation of what was not on the agenda. But in addition, I think it is important to note that Jobbik and the MSZP are saying that there is indeed a problem - clean energy for all Europeans! The package and its regulatory objectives have provisions that violate the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity [[Dr. István Józsa: The title is good.]] and, therefore, it may be justified and acceptable for them to make this proposal for a decision - [[Dr. István Józsa:]] Not to the law, Congressman, to the resolution proposal - they can join us. But I think that, as Secretary of State for Energy, I must also respond to the comments that touched on this proposal, and that interesting findings have been made in other areas of energy. Congressman Józsa has offended us that the Hungarian Parliament is defending coal power plants, by signing the Paris Climate Convention, we are going against this statement. Two small clarifications: Hungary did not sign the Paris Climate Convention, it was signed by the European Union on our behalf... [[Dr. István Józsa: The Hungarian Parliament...]] - this would have been my next sentence, under the authority of Hungary and the other EU countries. The agreement thus adopted was first ratified by the Hungarian Parliament in the European Union. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] We were first, yes. This is an apparent contradiction, but it is capable of pointing out how stealthy this kind of approach is to this regulation, because climate protection is an effective way of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In this respect, the European Union has consistently agreed to reduce emissions by 40% for the 2005 base by 2030. It is left to the states to see how they can achieve this. The introduction of this rule, the 550 grams/kilowatt-hour threshold, is important that, if you do reach it, dear Member State, this 40 percent reduction, still close your coal power plants, which do not correspond to this 550 grams/kilowatt-hour, because you cannot participate in the capacity mechanism with this type of power plant. But that's the conclusion of this thing, that even though you're doing 40 percent climate protection, you can get to that position... [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] No, it says you can't participate in the capacity mechanism. So this is also a typical stealth legislation, typically by sneaking around, by circumventing other rules to regulate these power plants. And we don't know what's next. There's a large area of pricing, the official price. It has been said in several cases, and we will not argue with Mr Józsa about the price before 2010. The EU's trading system and pricing system were different, there were no network codes yet, which is yet another proof that we are on the right track because the introduction of network codes was accompanied by a price increase. We weren't in government when the principle was set. [[16.40]] But the point is, before 2010 and before the reduction of the rent - let's be precise - in Hungary before 1 January 2013 and between 2002-2010, the price of gas and electricity was the most expensive in the 28 EU countries, if you look at it. I'm telling you, 17th was the most expensive price of gas and electricity. The prices of gas and electricity were cheaper in countries such as Britain, France, the poor Netherlands, Italy, Luxembourg, living in terrible bad conditions, whereas wealthy Hungarians could buy these two forms of energy more expensively. The second cheapest in Hungary is the price of universal service gas and the fifth cheapest is the price of universal service electricity. I stress that you are universal service providers, because when you talk about the extent to which the stock exchange price has decreased, it is another issue, a pear, that the prices of universal service providers should be compared at European level. In this respect, once again, the second cheapest in Hungary is gas and the fifth cheapest is electricity prices between EU Member States. I believe that this tells us everything, especially since 5 or 6 of the 28 Member States now have a level of regulated universal service provider prices, so this price is no longer regulated, but market based, and what Lenin gives, please, is more expensive than the price of electricity and the price of gas is more expensive than in Hungary. So if you compare these two, you can't, even statistically, look at the facts, you can't say that in Hungary the reduction of the rent didn't reach its goal. In Hungary, it has achieved its goal, because in contrast to the previous 18th most expensive price, the prices of gas and electricity are 5th and 2nd today. So I think it is possible to argue with these, to trick with numbers, to say that the gas is cheaper now and the electricity is cheaper, but the facts are persistently showing that the reduction has reached its goal, and the price of gas and energy is permanently low and affordable in Hungary, which has resulted in other social benefits and a better position. What is important, I fully agree, Mr Józsa, is very important regionality in Hungary, and let us now narrow the situation down to the electricity market. The regulation of electricity in these two proposals, in the draft regulation and in the draft directive, is not about gas, because it is a completely separate issue, but we say, and have always said, when we have adopted the Energy Union on European scenes, not only Hungary, other countries, to support regional cooperation, the conditions of that regulation must be promoted, but it must operate on a voluntary, bottom-up basis. On the other hand, the proposal before us does not impose regional cooperation on us on a voluntary basis, not on a bottom-up basis, because of reasons and intentions that severely restrict the possibility of national regulation; in the case of national legislation, let us be precise, the regulatory right of the system manager, because it is not regulated by the State, but regulated by the system manager, i.e. by the FGSZ and Mavir. I believe that if such regulation goes against it, which, when the Energy Union was adopted, was declared in the language and in the decision-making mechanism, we must oppose it because it clearly violates the principle of subsidiarity. We must add that Hungary is not the problem in this area, it is not the region that is the problem in this area, because Hungary has a 50 per cent share of the installed capacity in terms of cross-border capacity. Between France and Spain, this is going up to 15 percent in the coming years, they have a deal. In Hungary, the electricity market is volatile, prices are very easy to move, and consequently market processes are operating outside the universal service price, the Hungarian economy has no competitive disadvantage from the electricity price, because of the market price, but there is certainly no disadvantage for consumers, as has been shown by the practice that electricity is more expensive on a market basis in the Czech Republic, for example. I have to add, there is a service provider in Hungary, not even one that offers consumers electricity to buy on a market basis, but again I'll just say what Lenin gives, the customers in the universal service do not go there, because the electricity purchased on a market basis is more expensive and cheaper, but more expensive in its trend. I believe that these reasons, once again, confirm that we need to address this issue, we must address the need to change the direction of regulation, if possible, with the democratic instrument that Parliament has put forward, and I can therefore say again that I can confirm that we can support the adoption of this proposal. Unfortunately... [[István Ikotity leaves the notary seat.]] He didn't go out, the notary's here. There was this cold, honourable Member of January, notary. On the coldest day, we looked at the percentage production of the built-in Hungarian renewable capacity. There was a time when the sun wasn't shining, it was extremely cold and the wind wasn't blowing. If we had to supply the Hungarian population and the Hungarian economy with electricity in terms of the amount of electricity emitted, as the renewables produced at the time and there, I must say, my honourable fellow Member, that we should have installed about such renewable capacity - the better number - that, given the cost, it would have been possible to build a 2.9-sized Paks Nuclear Power Plant. If we had tried to solve this from the sun, this number would have been even more brutal, about 11 Paks nuclear power plants would have had to be installed. So the idea of providing Hungarian electricity from renewables alone leads to such brutal numbers. It was a day when there was no wind in Europe, there was no sunshine, and the Hungarian population and the Hungarian industry demanded electricity because life would have stopped without it. That is why I am saying and stressing that the goal is to better integrate renewables into the existing system, which this package also contains, which was issued by the European Union on 30 November 2016, but if we want clean energy production and secure energy production, we cannot spare nuclear energy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-118	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very pleased that the debate has taken a professional turn, so, in connection with the subject matter of the agenda, I would like to mention the incredible domestic potential of deep geothermic or Hungarian: deep earth heat mining as an explanation of the compliance list of the source of system management. It is difficult for scientists, who are not professionals, to imagine that Hungary has the geological potential of Iceland relative to neighbouring countries. I can give you a concrete example of this: in Fabiánsebestyén, a geyser broke into which the oil researcher in Szolnok had been disabled, costing 10 billion dollars by which he was repressed. [[16.50]] So this is an opportunity that Hungary could unfold its natural features and meet the 550 grams/kilowattor criterion. I do not want this to go into such a policy approach, rather than a professional approach, because what the notary has said is that there are two false statements in this proposal that the public price is better than the cheap market price, then I say that your state-owned companies provide energy at a cheaper price on a market basis. There is nothing to prevent you from being suddenly asked for a double price by the state-owned First Hungarian Public Service Provider, who took over the gas supply of my apartment. He's just starting to come back to the usual. But why are they asking for more than the previous scolding multi? Make them cheaper. Thank you.
u2017-04-19-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2017-04-19-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On the one hand, I would like to express my joy at getting into the debate and not just at the end of it. At the same time, I'm sad to say that you're saying something I didn't do. I did not make a statement in connection with the previous speech by the lead speaker that Hungary should only be able to use solar energy or wind energy to power its power supply. You know as well as you do from the Rothschild report, if it was shown to you, for example, in order for the nuclear power plant to be able to operate economically - the return is not even mentioned - energy prices would have to double. And the example of the cold days in January is obviously an extreme, something to be prepared for. [[Gyula Vantara: There are winds!]] There are edges, yes, we know that. However, there are examples of such extremes, while operating a whole other type of system is not entirely correct, all the more so because you know that a road that would not be about nuclear energy, but about green energy, along with an energy strategy, would be cheaper to solve the country's power supply and energy needs, and gradually, not at the same time, should be too much in advance. Therefore, I would like to point out that this was not entirely correct and correct. Besides, there is not only solar and wind energy for renewables. Thank you.
u2017-04-19-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik Group.
u2017-04-19-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the words of State Secretary András Aradski. As a matter of fact, as a problem, the world market price for natural gas has gone down incredibly since its peak in 2008-2009 and is constantly moving at a very low level. On this point, Minister of State said that when the consumer price is determined, we should not start from the world market price, we should not take that into account, but said that the universal service price will be the basis and that the price will be determined on this basis. [[Dr. András Aradski: I didn't say that.]] I even took notes that he was talking about a universal price. What is included in the universal service provider price? What is the price? This consists of the purchase price of natural gas, or where it is produced, the production price, the transport costs on it, storage costs, distribution costs, commercial costs and taxes on it, VAT and other taxes. They give the universal service provider price in total, but at some point the world market price should be the determining factor. If we look at the period of three times the price of gas during socialist governance in Hungary and each family had to pay three times as much - this price explosion occurred between 2004-2010 - then we can see that the world market price has tripled during this period. What happened next? This has already been mentioned by the Members who spoke before me. At the turn of 2008-2009, there was a huge drop in prices on the world gas market, when the world market price for natural gas went down to about a quarter. This does not mean that it should be reduced to a quarter at the moment, but when it grew, the socialist government tripled it, just as the world market price required this trend, but did not decrease when Fidesz came to the government, and even because of the increase in VAT and other things, a small increase was observed. Then, when we turned to the finish line, and the 2014 parliamentary election followed, obviously for political reasons, a reduction was announced, and the huge difference resulting from a fall to a quarter of the world market price, Fidesz returned a total of 25 percent discount in three steps, resulting in a 25 percent reduction in the price of natural gas in Hungary, even though there was a huge difference between the world market price and the consumer price at that time. But also during socialist governance, when it tripled, the cost of purchasing natural gas, transport costs, storage, distribution, trade and taxes were also affected. They were just as good as they are now. So to me it is inexplicable that about 75% of the reduction option has been reduced by 25 percent. So where's the 50 percent difference? If the price of natural gas has been constant and has remained stable since then, why is this not reflected in the price of gas consumers in Hungary? I think that there would still be very serious opportunities that the government has not had in any form in recent years. In fact, the reduction of the rent is part of an, ready-made scam show, because it could have been reduced to a huge extent, but only to such a small extent did the government reduce the consumer price of natural gas in Hungary. That is why, in my view, this sector is still far from profitable today, and the Hungarian population is still paying much more than they should pay. That's our opinion of him. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As none of my fellow Members have made themselves known in a normal time frame, we are now again going to have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki, within a two-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Gyure said something very interesting. It's more like it's itching my palms 'cause it's growing together, isn't it? The MSZP and Jobbik say what is not true in their beautiful canon, but Jobbik doesn't like George Soros as much as he used to, so it's perfectly normal for you. Congressman, we are talking about a universal service price. If you were right in your reasoning, it would be true that the Czech, German, French, Belgian, Danish capital is draining the population, because despite the fact that the price of gas is cheaper than before 2010, it is more expensive than in Hungary. Such a shame! These bourgeois, these multinational corporations are sucking it out, fooling the population! But it's not that, Congressman. It is about not mixing the stock exchange price with the universal service provider price. The stock exchange price is to go to the wholesale market or buy tomatoes in the field, but by the time they bring it up to SPAR or any of the stores and pack it up for you, it's a little more expensive than buying it in the field. That's part of the thing. The other part is that when we look at world market prices, there was indeed a low point in April, but if we look at the price in December and adjust the price to that, we are talking about a 10-15 percent increase in gas prices. The universal service is special because it is not about following the market price on a daily basis, but it guarantees a predictable, safe and affordable price for consumers, and Hungary is doing well in doing so. The second cheapest is the price of universal service gas in Europe, and the others all take it more expensive. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.00]]
u2017-04-19-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Once again, speeches will follow in a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, MSZP.
u2017-04-19-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very pleased that there is such a great interest on the Fidesz side in my intention to comment. I am sure that what I am saying is incredibly useful to the Fidesz-propaganda-blinded Members. Because the political failure, according to Winston Churchill, begins when serious politicians like you begin to believe their own propaganda, which is not written by you, but by the press. So be very careful of your own minds so that you can keep your common senses because I say there is a different political strategy, a different political mindset than that that propagandists write in the press department. So I'd like to protect you from eating what you've been describing from reducing your rent, because, as the Secretary of State has said, one thing is certain, this is a very complicated issue. When my fellow Member raises the question of how the price of electricity in Germany is three times higher than in Hungary, I will tell him how it can be. In the budget of a two-seek average German family, the energy balance is half as much as in Hungary. You can't just compare prices, you have to compare the situation in society. This can be described somewhat in the purchasing power parities, but it is not entirely; it depends on much else. I would like to encourage the government, which I have just mentioned for half a sentence, to make more serious efforts to run deep-earth mining, because there is very serious EU money for this. Not with its own money, but with the resources provided by the green money distributors of the Union, it would be possible to build deep Hungarian earth heat mining. I stress this because I have been talking about this in the Hungarian Parliament for more than ten years. In 2009, even in spite of all the counterwinds, we were able to pass a law to define what deep earth heat mining is. In less than 2,500 meters, it is typical of the same mining industry as oil mining standards for deep earth heat mining. This is the zeroth step, which should be continued in the area of legislation. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Returning to the presentation of what we should point out to the EU in a yellow flat procedure: by no means to the blackboard that tells us to stop Brussels under a blood-red tablet on the background of the deep blue SZDSZ. Brussels is a city, it is in one place, it is not going anywhere, its inhabitants are relatively happy. So it's a perfectly meaningless poster that confuses the concepts we've had so far. Let us stick to what Mr Secretary of State rightly said: clean energy for everyone is a directive, not a law, it is a directive with an extremely good title. What's in it is also fundamentally forward-looking for the Energy Union. There are some details in it that need to be clarified; but not with this propaganda text, which, I'm saying, was written not by professionals, but by the Fidesz press department, four years ago. I think it'd be a little better to get past that. I would also encourage the government to stop thinking in patterns when it comes to government prices. Do not think that there is an energy price, and it serves from the thousand cubic meters or the thousand kilowatts or the smallest consumer to the largest. In this respect, this Directive provides a particularly good opportunity for national governments, national parliaments, to set social price categories. I would urge you to do so in the case of the smallest consumers, consumers whose energy poverty unfortunately acts factually. This can be shown by the increase in the number of backlogrs between 2010 and 12 due to your price increase, the increase in the number of people whose services have been disconnected. Of course, it is possible to show that after raising prices by 30 percent compared to 2009, they went back to 25, of course the number of back-payers improved a little. But you played a yo-yo. It is a well - known phenomenon in diets that one gets fat first, then reduces it, and then the situation has not changed much. Mr Secretary of State mentioned in his anger during the debate the voluntary cooperation of system management, Mavir. That's a perfectly correct thought. The Hungarian government should take the initiative to develop the benefits that make voluntary cooperation worthwhile. I don't think it's so much magic, you just have to see when, in the current voluntary cooperation, the individual system controllers are using the possibility of a common solution, and then they should be preferred. If there is sufficient experience, these can be done. So the lack of system governance, the lack of development of regional system governance rules in this material, which is a matter of fact, in my opinion, should not generate the position of the Hungarian party that then this regional system governance is a dead end - because it is not. In this direction, we must continue to move forward, not abolish it, but propose to clarify and correct it, in the spirit of a progressive approach that does not reject Europe, rather than show a stop sign to Brussels, but to paint a green field, so that this green field, on which many flowers can bloom and give us the opportunity to bloom a hundred flowers, the greener, the better. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-19-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. Good afternoon. We will continue our work with the speech of Mr Attila Petneházy, representative of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-129	With all due respect, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, A sentence by Congressman Józsa inspired me to think that he called Fidesz's argument a propaganda tool. If we run back to before 14 when this is certain, let's call it that, but the reduction in the rent has been done, although I add, I have only seen it as a television viewer, not from here, the Parliament live, but as a screen viewer, which may have reduced my insight, but it has come to me that there are several opposition representatives, and if that wasn't the case, I apologize to him, but several opposition fellow Members said that the reduction of the rent was very dangerous. Because it can lead to the fact that it will raise sustainability issues, i.e. a dangerous reduction in the amount that can be reversed in the sector, therefore it poses a threat. Then they realized that this was not very good propaganda, because there was no doubt about the right to reduce the rent. At the time, they quickly said that there was something in it, and now you're saying that it could be reduced even more. Propagandatic means are a big part of this. [[17.10]] Apologies to Mr Gyüre, but the direction in his speech was very spicy, when a better Member defended the kind of direction that the MSZP raised energy prices under its governance. In fact, he gave a lot of reasons why it was right and why it was completely self-evident when it fell. It's also a matter of perspective. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-130	Thank you. Members have applied for a two-minute speech. Congressman István Józsa first, MSZP, here!
u2017-04-19-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to reassure my fellow Member, Attila Petneházy, that I have always said that he is late and few. Because I knew the numbers of the purchase price, the background behind it, it could have been done first. This was timed for the 14th election, only motivated by purely political means, and its scale was set so that MET and other private, masked gas dealers could benefit from it. So sustainability has come up from a different perspective from certain workshops, not in relation to pricing, but in relation to operation. The other thing is, what's to protect the price increase? I gave you the exact numbers. When the price was $50 a barrel, you could get a cubic meter of gas for 50 forints for the population. When it was $60, it was 60 forints. The correlation is very clear, the world market price went up over $100. [[Attila Petneházy: Tell Congressman Gyure!]] That's why I'm telling you, but these are facts. You can't say we raised prices. The price of energy on the world market has increased, the purchase price has increased, and in a certain proportion we have increased, you have raised it more between 10 and 12 and reduced it less than it could have been. So you have to take care of your own propaganda here, because when you took control of companies at extra costs - we also criticized it - you shouldn't have given that much for it, because I don't understand it - then you could have done it now that these public service companies are monitoring the purchase prices and giving the public gas and electricity at a cheaper price. Thank you.
u2017-04-19-132	Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik will be here in two minutes. Here.
u2017-04-19-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Fellow Members! I would like to respond to my fellow Member, Attila Petneházy, in that it is not my place and I do not want to defend the MSZP - and I did not - the MSZP's measures, because it is clear that the consumer price went up three times during their governance, and it must also be noted that this is the world market price that we talked about and the drop in world market prices occurred in the second half of 2008; a radical price reduction occurred in 2008. Therefore, if we had looked at it, the Bajnai government could have fallen in the same radical way as they had followed the increase in world market prices, they could have followed its decline in the same way. We know that this is not how the system itself worked, so it did not work exactly that way, because there were interstate contracts for the purchase of gas, which made the purchase of gas prices predictable for Hungary at least in the medium term. So the market did not react directly, another issue is that the MSZP government immediately transferred any changes to the Hungarian population and did not remove anything from the burden. Even when, in my view, there was a very serious profit at that time, and it was a particularly serious profit from the second half of 2008 when the Bajnai government had the opportunity to correct retail prices by April 2010. They didn't. They are as flawed as when the Orbán government, the second Orbán government, was established in 2010, did not make this reduction and even increased the retail price of gas. And that's where the huge profits that people made came in, and the Hungarian population paid for this huge extra profit that was made in the gas business. In fact, Fidesz and MSZP are equally flawed in the fact that this happened, and I'm not defending Fidesz, I'm just stating factually what happened at the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-134	Thank you. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, will take the floor. Here.
u2017-04-19-135	I do not want to jest the speech, but I was forced to note that perhaps, by resolving today's debate or by resolving tensions, in response to what Congressman Józsa said, Brussels cannot be stopped, because it is a city, and it does not need to be stopped. By the way, you're right, you can't stop it, and this may be the hot response to propaganda, but you can also use it on the propaganda side: based on current GPS measurements and GPS tests, the distance between Brussels and Hungary is measured in the cortex movements. And by the way, Brussels is approaching Hungary by about 2.5 millimeters a year. [[Defiance.]] So the government - and not joking about not suggesting it - may need to be consulted with Gyula Verne on how to stop Brussels from getting closer to us by means of natural processes, and, for example, in ten thousand years, Brussels will not be 2 metres closer to Budapest. This may be the way to stop Brussels, but it will take superhuman efforts. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-19-136	Thank you very much. His enjoyable and remarkable speech was limited to the draft regulation of the European Parliament on the internal market in electricity, but, of course, I tried to appreciate his association. But now, Congressman Vejkey, the KDNP representative, will have the floor in two minutes. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, very briefly, it is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not want to stop Brussels on the basis of the disk-tectonic European geological movements, nor are we afraid that the Hungarian mamas would want to be overrun by the Brussels tweezers with their laces. The problem is that Brussels is building a dictatorship. [[An uproar in the benches of the MSZP. Attila Mesterházy: And the Orbán is not?!]] It is building a dictatorship, ladies and gentlemen, and this proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity, which is also a point on the agenda, specifically discussed by the Committee on European Affairs. It proves this, and it is therefore extremely important that Brussels should be able to exercise only powers which have been delegated to it by the Member States, powers which have not been delegated, and not to try to exercise those rights. It is therefore extremely important to maintain the principle of subsidiarity, which is being repeatedly, and not repeatedly, deliberately crossed through. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-138	From a meeting point of view, there was a specific situation where a representative of the MSZP Group had already spoken for two minutes, but no one else had come forward. [[Attila Mesterházy: Normal!]] So, if you had applied to normal, for example, now you have this opportunity, Congressman Cook, I will give you the floor. This should in no way encourage you to speak further. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will take your advice, obviously only when you hear that Brussels is building a dictatorship, it is not very possible to leave it without a word at any level on the one hand. A very large part of the Hungarians decided in a referendum that we wanted to belong to this community. And last but not least, this constant struggle of yours would be much easier to resolve if you were to be smarter at politics. We started here from the point of view of energy, so that the energy office does not take a decision, because it is being attacked by multinational companies and attacked by Hungarian companies, and therefore it is necessary to regulate this by regulation; which they can attack in the same way, only in another forum, and in fact here you are trying to protect the reduction of the rent by means of a much more straightforward decision-making mechanism, for example, in this respect. True, this goes against European law. You have argued, for example, about this law, that your keynote speaker said that if, for example, energy prices, the energy office states not in a regulation, but in a decision, because you thought so a year earlier, it would have no impact on the effects of the reduction of the overhead. [[17.20]] Look back at the report. That's what you said. A year later, when you changed your mind, it turned out that the regulation of the European Union, to which the Hungarian rules were harmonised, of course, is no longer good, and now it is possible to fight Brussels again. This is what is important for you to stop Brussels again, where we belong, the centre of the community to which Hungary belongs, the European Union. There, my dear fellow Member, Imre Vejkey, if they are building a dictatorship, they will certainly learn from Viktor Orbán in this regard, but I think it is quite simply impossible to leave this behind. This, which you have said, is not politically correct, and if, by chance, you do not say in Parliament after a nice Wednesday night, mostly after a quarter past, that Brussels is building a dictatorship, then you will have to think very seriously about how this is explained, although there is nothing else in Parliament but that you are misinterpreting the events and that the government is pursuing a wrong policy. They don't build dictatorships there, believe me. A simple interpretation should be able to decide how to transpose what is written there into Hungarian legislation. By the way, it's very simple: if there's an energy agency, maybe make decisions that we can be sure won't be attacked. Let's say there are coordination mechanisms. As they are not here in Parliament, otherwise there are no negotiations on energy and energy prices. You go your own way, you run against the wall all the time, and it's always the wall that's to blame. And you, my honourable fellow Member, once again, if you don't happen to say this on a nice Wednesday night at 5:30, then I think you would have a lot to explain with just one foot out of the European People's Party or almost thrown out of it by Fidesz's representative. It would give rise to a lot of explaining. [[Dr. András Aradski: KDNP!]] If word gets out. Now I hear that solidarity is different, because you're already in another party, but you're still a pro-government faction, but you're a pro-government faction. I think you should be more careful with those adjectives, because you're gonna get this story out of here, and I think you should think about it when you say something like that. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-19-140	Thank you very much. Congressman Józsa, third time!
u2017-04-19-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fortunately, the house rules allow anyone to comment at this debate stage, of course, not uninterested. I would like to advance that I respect Dr. Vejkey as a private person in an extraordinary way, and I appreciate his conservative conviction, but by saying that Brussels is building a dictatorship, he said almost as much as a fellow party who found it, I think, in 2006, that single hordes are terrorizing downtown Budapest. He wanted to express something in the spirit of his conservative view of the world, and it became a huge scandal. Let me tell you something about Brussels: your Conservative party of the People's Party is in the majority. So if you think that someone is building a dictatorship, then I suggest that the 60-year-old story of which we were celebrating the anniversary not more than a month ago should look at the history of the Roman treaty and see if there was such a peaceful time in Europe's history. Not because it is a dictatorship or not, but because it is in the spirit of voluntary cooperation, it has started and is happening now. So I would like to remind you to read Machiavelli, find parallels to current political practice, and there are others, to say the least, that belong to the theorists of dictatorship. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Lenin!]] Basic work, which you can safely compare with the history of the system of national cooperation over the last seven years. But what Brussels is trying to build in the spirit of voluntary cooperation is not against us, but for us. [[Defiance and noise in the pro-government benches.]] So, on the agenda of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the internal market in electricity or of the directive, we do not agree with certain things in detail regulations that Brussels is building a dictatorship, to come from a yellow flat procedure, that is a bit much. As I mentioned from Winston Churchill, be careful to transpose the texts of the propagandaists, because strategic thinking may not be helpful. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-19-142	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Hörcsik, President of the Committee on European Affairs, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to reflect. [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: Yes, Mr. President, very briefly.]] Congressman, please.
u2017-04-19-143	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, After the long debate, I must thank the factions for the fact that today's plenary debate could take place away from house rules. This means that in two weeks we can decide whether or not to take a decision. Thus, Parliament's decision can take place within a deadline, as I have already said, as the deadline for sending a reasoned opinion on the draft directive expires on 9 May 2017 and on 17 May 2017 on the draft regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond only in a few sentences to what has been said in the debate of three and a half hours. Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Aradski, State Secretary, for speaking and responding professionally to the questions raised by Mr Józsa or other opposition representatives. After his speech, I thought that the debate was going a little towards professionalism, but there was a lot going on in this debate, and, as President Hiller mentioned, we were a little bit off our original topic, the proposal for a resolution that we had on our table. So what's this about? A draft regulation and a draft directive, which we are discussing together, is about a common regulation for the internal market in electricity, and that the Parliament establishes with a proposal for a decision that this violates the principle of subsidiarity. In comparison, there have been a lot of things, which do not belong here in the first place, but a question of politics, which my fellow Members have said nicely. What is it, and let me just say one very, very short thing. I am glad that the debate has lasted so long because this is the fifth time the Parliament has conducted a subsidiarity inquiry, and from the speeches it can be heard that my fellow Members now feel the importance of this. This is extremely important. I believe that we are at an early stage of EU decision-making, i.e. during this period a national parliament, such as the Hungarian Parliament, has not only the opportunity but also the duty to draw the European Commission's attention to the aspects on which the draft regulation and directive is not considered compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Subsidiarity, as I said, is not only difficult to say, but also to understand what it is really about. This is nothing more than an opportunity in the hands of national parliaments, to raise awareness, to prevent or warn the EU institutions, so that they do not exceed their delegated powers. That's basically what this story is about. The draft regulation on the internal market in electricity proposes the introduction of new regulations which, without taking into account the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, do not unduly exceed the powers conferred on the European Union. [[17 .30]] This can be debated, I believe that if the Bundestag or the Bundesrat has stated this, then we can find it in a safe way, and it is very important that we can say that the Hungarian Parliament has made use of the yellow flat procedure - we will do nothing but what we do. And we trust that many national parliaments will follow our procedure, just as the two houses of the German Parliament have already done. To this end, today I sent a thank-you letter to Polish President Isabela Kloc, who drew our attention to these problematic proposals. Well, I hope that not only the other parliaments of the Visegrád Four, but also the two houses of the Romanian Parliament will take a similar decision. Once again, I thank the representatives of the factions for confirming by their speeches the contents of the report and the proposal for a decision of the Committee on European Affairs, because, after all, no faction has objected to the fact that this is a breach of subsidiarity. Mr President, thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Japan on the draft law on the publication of the agreement on the temporary work programme for tourists until closure. The government referral is T/15006. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-19-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On 14 February 2017, in Tokyo, an agreement was signed between Hungary and Japan on the temporary work programme of tourists. Within the framework of the programme envisaged by the Agreement, nationals of the two countries aged between 18 and 30 may stay in the territory of the other Party for a period of not more than one year, with the primary purpose of their stay being tourism, under which they may temporarily work if certain conditions are met. The visa for temporary work under the Agreement, valid for a maximum of 12 months, is an existing residence document in Japan. Hungary is already party to several of these agreements, such as New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, Taiwan and Australia, and several such agreements are being prepared. The practical implementation of the agreement is ensured by Hungary. According to the law on the procedure for international treaties, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the binding scope of the agreement, and the Minister of Interior has therefore submitted to this House a proposal to announce the agreement after the signature. I trust that my fellow Members will support this agreement and confirm it by their votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This bill, which is before us, is usually part of the list of laws on the publication of agreements on foreign affairs or on foreign affairs, and, accordingly, it is more of a formal debate, so I will be brief accordingly. This agreement deals with the mutual issue of the so-called work and holiday visa between Hungary and Japan, which is also eligible for employment and also for special work. Article 10 of the International Treaty Act. In accordance with paragraph 1 (b), the bill provides for the publication of the agreement and contains the authentic text of the agreement in English and Hungarian. It is worth mentioning here, and since it is a special visa and a relatively new opportunity in Hungarian case law, which is worth noting - when there is such a debate here - that Hungary has managed to conclude this agreement with some countries that are not only geographically distant from Hungary, they are not only geographically lying far away from Hungary, but life is not cheap, it is not cheap to get to know the people, the cultures there, and generally the economy there. Even very well-established ones can spend a year in Japan, Australia or New Zealand, or - then complete the circle, where such an agreement is already valid - in South Korea or Taiwan, it is not very possible, and there is a certain working holiday scheme, agreement, framework agreement that allows tourism to be financed by local work there, who are asking for such a visa. The condition is that a person must be between 18 and 30 years of age and can only apply for such a visa once in his life in a country, so it is not in any way suitable to carry out continuous work, so he does not issue a permit for work and professional work or a visa. This is also confirmed by the fact that a total of only three months can be worked for an employer, so it is not possible to carry out continuous work, as appropriate. However, I think that this is a new opportunity for young Hungarians, and, obviously, for young Japanese people, which is a kind of world vision, in a way - like the grooms of old - to explore a new culture, a distant country, to have the opportunity to learn a little about the world around us. I am sorry to add all of this, but I think that there is little time to draw the attention of young people to such an opportunity in connection with a bill for foreign affairs. For its part, Fidesz naturally supports the adoption of the bill, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-148	Thank you very much. Member Attila Mesterházy, lead speaker of the MSZP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-149	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Dear House, I would not dare to argue with the Vice-President of Parliament, or even with the President of our election, to waste time making long comments, so I will try to keep it very short. Of course, the MSZP faction supports this proposal, as this agreement can have an economic, touristic, cultural or even educational impact on Hungarian-Japanese relations as a whole. There is only one point on which the Secretary of State may be able to answer why this came in - it is more of an interest, it does not prevent the adoption of the proposal. Point (i) of this agreement - this list sets out the criteria on which a person can participate in this programme and is asked only because of the curiosity - states point (i) that during his stay he intends to comply with the laws and other laws in force in the host country. This is an interesting marginal condition, because if you don't want to follow it, you can come, but you can't participate in this program, so it might have been worth paying attention to this, that this is likely to be evident in both countries, so that everyone within the country will comply with the laws that are currently in force. And by the way, what my fellow Member Chenger-Zalan said, I couldn't have said better. [[Defiance.]] So I totally agree with that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.40]]
u2017-04-19-150	Mr President, thank you very much, you are exemplary and you have set a fine example of future planning with this speech. Thus, we will be paying attention to the speech by Mr Tamás Pintér, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that I will not reveal a great secret if I tell you that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will also support this proposal, since this proposal for a programme of temporary work between the Hungarian government and the Japanese government can help preserve and cultivate bilateral relations. I think, by the way, that beyond Nippon's sympathy, there are hard economic interests, and that it is also very eligible for a better understanding of the culture of the host countries in the ages of 18-30, and that is clearly a noble goal. So the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-152	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room. They didn't sign up for a two-minute speech. As a normal speaker, Mr István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, is next. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not just that I'm getting into the debate, but it's really a very important international treaty, and I have to say, it's rare. So it is not a routine thing that my fellow Member Zsolt Csenger-Zalán has put before us in a very realistic way, because there are many sides to this. On the one hand, that Hungarian young people... because who will travel in this? I don't think too many Japanese young people will be coming to the Lake Balaton to wait for work, but let's not rule it out. There's a waiter's shortage in the summer, so if there's news of this in Japan, [[Defiance.]] - I think HIPA could help you with that - then there may be a small income supplement for such a tourist destination, besides Lake Balaton, the lack of a waiter. The other half is that life really costs a lot of money there, so such an international treaty can help young Hungarians to study Japanese culture more deeply for weeks and months, and this is good for both countries. It is not only good for us, but also good for Japan, because there is probably a stronger seasonal shortage of labour there, and they have values in social culture and work culture that are unlikely to be learned only from books. At the same time, I would argue with my fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy. It's not because you're sitting next to me, and I can't argue with him any other time, we wouldn't see each other, it's because that's what's on the agenda. In such an international treaty, it is a predicament of the law-abiding behaviour, I believe, that it is very appropriate. I trust that if someone wants to take advantage of this opportunity, at least they will read this international agreement in their own language, and then they will see to it that you listen, dear citizen, the prerequisite for this is that there is probably a different kind of legislation than here, and whether you know it or not, it is binding on you. So a call for attention, which I think is a protest policy, will help citizens of both countries to find themselves in a different environment, not only culturally but also in terms of legislation, and should also be prepared in this direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-04-19-154	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP.
u2017-04-19-155	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. First of all, I wanted to speak in order to inform my fellow Members that the parliamentary group of the KDNP is also in favour of the bill. With regard to point (i) called by my fellow Member Mesterházy, it is indeed our position that the lack of knowledge of the law does not exempt us. So what my fellow Member Józsa has said, I fully agree that it is necessary to draw the attention of those arriving here to the fact that there are other legislation here. If they have good intentions for employment, then it is obvious that the legislation here will also be taken into account in their actions. I could give you an example here, for example, of migrants, who are obvious that when they sign certain documents, they also sign that they accept the legislation here, but yet they come in here in violation of all existing rights, and even afterwards, but this is another issue on the agenda, and I do not want to mention it now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-156	Thank you very much. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz.
u2017-04-19-157	Thank you very much. Not for the sake of the debate, but I see that three of my fellow Members have missed the point of the text. Before a certain point (i), it is stated that the Japanese Government will issue a visa free of charge, i.e. a visa if the citizen meets the following requirements. And in these there is the point (i) that you intend to follow the rules. It's not a charity call, it's a condition. By the way, this applies to the Japanese, there is one for the Hungarians, that is the ix) or the ninth point for the next. So it's a mandatory condition. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-19-158	Congressman Mesterházy, MSZP, two minutes!
u2017-04-19-159	I did not think that I would generate such a debate with this point (i), but I would still like to stand by the fact that I think it is evident that if someone goes to a given country, to any country, then the legislation must be respected. So regardless of this, I still think that this was unnecessary, but we are willing to accept the other arguments as well.
u2017-04-19-160	Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Pogács if he wishes to reflect. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In 2013, Japan initiated the conclusion of this agreement, so it started on their initiative. A rather lengthy negotiation preceded the conclusion of the agreement, and each word, each sentence, was agreed, and the Japanese party indicated that it was acceptable and that the procedure necessary for the entry into force of the agreement had been completed in Japan. Therefore, that ominous point (i) was included because the two parties, where appropriate the Japanese party, asked to be included in this form. Once again, on their part, the necessary internal procedure has been completed, so this agreement may have already entered into force on their part. I trust that the Hungarian Parliament will also support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-162	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There follows a general debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the General Administrative Rules Act and the Act on Administrative Rules until closure. The government referral is T/15065. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the author. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Parliament has already adopted the Act on General Administrative Rules and the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure. The two codes were part of the legislative activity aimed at the systemic renewal of public administration. In line with these objectives, we have already produced a number of results on the procedural side. Most importantly: strengthening district offices, procedural simplifications in the area of bureaucracy, reviewing the system of central offices, thus rationalising the administration system, or establishing the two codes of procedure on which this proposal is based. As I have already said, the Parliament adopted the two procedural laws with the entry into force of January 2018 and, replacing the law, it plays the role of the General Code of Procedure on the Authority's procedures, thus replacing the former ones. The new Code of Procedure will ensure the legitimate functioning of the public administration and the right of customers to a fair trial by changing the paradigm. [[17.50]] In view of this, it is necessary to adapt, by 1 January, all legislation on the subject of administrative procedural law and including such provisions to the new regulatory regime of the law of public procedure. The proposal before you contains proposals for amendments requiring a legislative level. Certain general criteria have been taken into account in the codification process when examining individual procedures and procedural aspects. These are general questions: allowing suspension, excluding the provision on the exercise of the right applied for in the pending decision, excluding the submission of the application at the government window, allowing multiple applications to be used, allowing the possibility of appeal outside cases under the General Administrative Regulation Act, extending the time limits for administration. Among the most important aspects of codification, it is important to point out that the whole regulatory structure of public procedural law is undergoing a change, such as a ministerial regulation no longer laying down additional procedural provisions. Therefore, a number of amendments to the legally binding provisions will be made in order to bring the procedural provisions currently at ministerial level to a higher legal level. A number of legal institutions of a specific sectoral nature have been excluded from the General Administrative Regulation Act, such as public hearing, intermediate authority, official intermediary, certification body. However, this does not mean that these institutions of law would cease to exist in administrative procedural law. However, the sectoral legislation has been assessed separately for each type of procedure, where and at what level it is necessary to introduce them as complementary procedural provisions. Among the implementing regulations of the General Administrative Rules Act, it is worth highlighting the reform of the rules on administrative cooperation. Following the entry into force of the Code, either a law or a single decree of the Government on professional appointments issued for the implementation of the General Administrative Regulation may contain only professional appointments and only on grounds of public interest. It is therefore necessary to ensure, for each sector, that the administrative designation in force is either deregulation or that it is brought to a legal level or, in addition to deregulation of the existing administrative designation, it is necessary to include it in a government decree issued for the implementation of the General Administrative Regulation. This implementing regulation will be drawn up later. A change in the terminology of the General Administrative Regulation Act also deserves to be highlighted. In the official procedural law, the finality of the decisions of the authorities is introduced instead of the force of their, instead of the, instead of the, the term "execution', instead of "execution' without appeal, instead of "rejection' without examination of the content of the request, as well as the regulation of the reservation. These technical amendments are therefore also made in the proposal. Allow me to switch to a summary of the amendments relating to the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure. The amendments required by the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Rules of Procedure may be divided into three groups. The first includes provisions which, on a technical basis, harmonise the terminology of the Administrative Rules Act and sectoral laws. The second group includes deregulation legislation. Finally, it was necessary to adapt the rules, other than the Act on Administrative Rules and Procedures, and to supplement them, to administrative rules designed to ensure the legal representation of sectoral specificities. The vast majority of the amendments are terminological-technical. In view of the fact that the Administrative Rules Act fully regulates the jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the courts in administrative matters, the provisions concerning the jurisdiction or jurisdiction of the determining court in sectoral legislation are repealed. Provisions referring to non-court proceedings have also been requested to be amended. In these cases, the previous non-court proceedings were typically replaced by an administrative action. In the case of non-contradictive administrative judicial proceedings, it was still justified to maintain the administrative non-court proceedings. There is a change in content that, under the new rules, the court secretary in these non-court proceedings can no longer make a substantive decision on his own. The Act on Administrative Procedure maintains the previous regulation that, as a general rule, the application submitted does not have a suspensive effect on the effect of the administrative action. Thus, rules in sectoral legislation which state that the application does not have suspensive effect should also be repealed. Public administration rules standardise the current mixed practice and list public bodies disputes among administrative actions. In view of the public body supervisory action between special cases, the provisions resulting from public body law, such as the possibility of bringing proceedings, the time limit for filing an application, the main rules for the secondment of the court to the supervisory authority and, for example, the rules on the opening of a judicial procedure by the member against disciplinary decisions on the public body, may be deleted. With regard to the rules on procedural time limits, it is important to point out that the exceptionality frequently applied in sectoral law is essentially an institution of law within the system of judicial administration, which is in fact the jurisdiction of the President of the Court, and therefore the rules on the out-of-court procedure in the sectoral rules have been repealed. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, please allow me to reiterate that the renewal of the different types of sectoral procedures has not been the objective of this proposal. After the acquisition and organisation of the enforcement experience, any fine-tuning of the rules of the Codes of Procedure and the reform of sectoral procedures in the framework of the programmes for cutting red tape and other procedural simplifications can be started. The funds are specific, the coherence of the legal system is ensured by the adoption of legislative amendments, and the further simplification of the state's operation can then continue, with respect to the aims and expectations of the establishment of a good state, the development and further development of procedures that are particularly conducive to the experience of the law enforcement authorities, capable of responding to the ideas of the modern, service state. Finally, I would like to stress that in the process of developing public administration in the autumn of 2010, we are trying to meet the social and economic need for a service administration with new priorities and new ideas. I am convinced that the two Codes of Procedure, the General Administrative Rules Act and the Administrative Rules Act, as well as the proposal before you, and the subsequent simplifications, will be able to ensure that administrative procedural law and administrative litigation can once again provide citizens with equal weight, together with a guarantee of a fair trial provided by the Fundamental Law and the right to redress, ensuring the legitimate functioning of the public administration. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill on the basis of what has been said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-164	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to have keynote speeches. First up, Congressman Robert Répássy, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-165	[[He's controlling his microphone.]] My apologies, trouble.
u2017-04-19-166	Solve your problem, Congressman, so you can speak up. What are you doing?
u2017-04-19-167	The line's tangled up, Mr. President. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: He didn't expect to hear you speak.]]
u2017-04-19-168	In four and a quarter of an hour's delay, we'll be very patient while the congressman solves this problem. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Here you go.
u2017-04-19-169	Thank you. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. I would like to announce that my comment will be considerably shorter than the last one hour's contribution by Mr Józsa. Dear House, The bill before us is supported by the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. The bill was put on the agenda of the legislation because of the entry into force of two laws on 1 January 2018, namely the two laws adopted: the General Administrative Rules Act and the Act on Administrative Rules. [[18.00]] So both of our laws renew the administrative procedure as of 1 January 2018, both at its administrative level and at the judicial level. This is linked to the legislative proposal that has now been tabled, which contains largely, even predominantly, technical amendments. As provided for in the general justification, legislation on administrative litigation and administrative procedural matters which will enter into force before 1 January 2018 should be adapted to the new regulatory system of public procedural law and administrative litigation, and this draft law contains the necessary amendments at the level of the law. So all the laws that we have in front of us are being amended by the proposal that relates to the two codes of procedure. I listened carefully to the Minister of State's exposé, which contained all the amendments and all the directions that would be changed on the basis of the bill before us, and I would like to draw attention to just a few innovations. Among other things, the principles of codification are that the results of the bureaucracy reduction so far are maintained by the government and by legislation. On the other hand, the general administrative order allows only exceptional derogations from the general principles of administrative order. This is also to be maintained by the proposal, i.e. as little as possible of the derogation from the administrative statute. In addition, only a minimum increase or a minimum extension of the administrative time limits may be possible, with a maximum of one quarter of the time limit in total, or may be extended by one quarter. Public administration has made the possibility of turning to the court a general rule, so the possibility of appeal is relatively rarely included in the general administrative order, as this would mean that the administrative court should be strengthened. I would also like to highlight the terminology changes. I think that these terminology changes will not only be a key issue of case law, but obviously also of legal education. The terminological changes are carried out by this proposal, this transfer is carried out, instead of legal force we call such a finality of the decision, instead of judicial review, we will call it an administrative action, instead of exequability without appeal, this form of the decision should be called immediately enforceability, and instead of rejecting the substance without examination, the general administrative order introduces the concept of rejection. The other large group of necessary amendments are amendments due to administrative order. A significant part of these are also technical and contain deregulation, and the most important changes in content are as follows: as I mentioned earlier, administrative litigation generally provides for the possibility of recourse to a court against administrative action. This is a very significant change, not only in perspective, but also in practice. So the administrative activity in the Hungarian rule of law takes place under the full control of the court, and the administrative bodies operate under full judicial control. Therefore, it is not necessary to provide for the opening of a judicial procedure in individual sectoral laws, and it can be very exceptional to have proceedings where there is no room for a judicial action. The next innovation, which I would like to point out, is that the exclusion of the powers of the court of reform is only possible in cases requiring special expertise. So this means that, while the practice was common in the past, and this was one of the main principles of the administrative procedure, the court reacted primarily by repealing or annulment that, if the decision of an administrative body was illegal, the rule is the reformatory power of the court, and exclusion, i.e. the change, the prohibition of the change of the administrative authority, can only take place exceptionally. This is confirmed by the current bill. On this basis, therefore, Mr House, I believe that the bill, which is basically professional and coherent with our already adopted two administrative laws, is necessary for the smooth entry into force of these laws from 1 January 2018, and in the aforementioned ways this law, which is before us, also contributes to the full rule of law of the public administration, i.e. all organs of the Hungarian administration are under the control of the independent court. So I'm asking you to accept the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-170	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP, has spoken. Here.
u2017-04-19-171	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The introduction of a new general administrative code of procedure necessarily requires the amendment of almost all sectoral laws. We also have no argument that it is appropriate to include these legislative amendments in a single large bill, since it is necessary to introduce the same substantive changes to all laws. Therefore, there is no doubt that this bill is justified and timely. However, it is highly debatable that a number of amendments to the bill, which are not at all linked to the new administrative code of procedure, have also been smuggled into it. In fact, not only is it debatable, but it is an abusive attitude to hide sensitive substantive changes in such a text, which normally contains only technical amendments, into a large text of the norm. Let me give you a few examples of these particularly inappropriate amendments: in Chapter 13, the amendment of the Law on notaries was also included in the provision which is not linked to the subject matter of the package of laws: if the notary has resigned his post, he is obliged to continue his function as notary until the document of his dismissal has been received. But the regulation of notaries' conflicts of interest cannot be included in the bill. In Chapter 47, almost complete reform of the Labour Control Act is being carried out. The explanatory statement itself acknowledges that the law has undergone significant changes since its adoption in 1996, its provisions have been extended to such an extent that the structural coherence of its provisions has been significantly reduced. But instead of suggesting a recoding of the law, the government has included in this package the redeployment of the law. Chapter 96 also includes a non-cutting amendment to the 2003 Law on Equal Treatment and the Promotion of Equal Opportunities, in order to align the wording of the EU directive on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the field of employment and work. In Chapter 178, the economic director of the Office of the Constitutional Court falls upward, now becoming Deputy State Secretary, after he has not been entitled to this Sharji for many years. However, in a bill of up to 500 pages, it is easy to hide the change and receive the payment, the deputy secretary of state's salary and allowances. In Chapter 179, the law on national higher education is amended. It can therefore be seen that the government has saved several legislative proposals, thus turning this package of laws into a salad law, and at the end of the saving, it also negulates the parliamentary debate in cases not linked to the subject matter of the package of laws, as it can be said at all as one of hundreds of amendments to the law. [[18.10]] However, a number of criticisms can also be expressed in the case of amendments that are indeed linked to the new Code of Procedure. Perhaps one of the most serious is that there are several examples of parallel regulation in the bill, and in many cases the bill does not bring me any closer, but actually removes me from the goals that were formulated by the MSZP fraction when the new administrative code of procedure was drawn up. For this reason, the MSZP Group did not support the introduction of either general administrative order or administrative order, nor does it support the legislative package transposing the legal system on the basis of the above reasons. It does not support it, because the package of laws has become a salad law and is not subject to the legislative package because of the elements of the amendment, because of the elementary rules of application which violate legal certainty, and also because of the substantive, substantive concerns that have already been presented. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-19-172	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-173	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2004 CXL on general rules for the administrative and administrative procedure Act C.L. 2016 on the general administrative order replacing Ket. Law, that is, the Akr. and the Code of Court Procedures guaranteeing the legitimate functioning of the public administration, Act I of 2017 on Administrative Procedure, will enter into force on 1 January 2018. It is therefore necessary to adapt all laws relating to the entry into force to the new regulatory regime of public procedural and public administration law, to the subject of litigation, or to provisions of this kind, by means of technical proposals. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us first consider what amendments are necessary because of the general administrative procedure, while the government intends to maintain the results of the reduction of bureaucracy so far, i.e. not to allow any withdrawal in them; so that the suspension can only be allowed, in particular, in justified cases, and so that the provision on the exercise of the right applied for is excluded in the pending decision. Ladies and Gentlemen, Considering it's Akr. on the basis of a ministerial regulation, it is not possible to lay down additional procedural provisions, but only substantive law, so that the whole regulatory structure needs to be reviewed and the delegated provisions should be clarified. They should know that a number of legal institutions of a specific sectoral nature have been excluded from Ákr. compared to Ket., such as public hearing, intermediate authority, official intermediary and certification body. Therefore, these legal institutions should be included in the legislation governing sectoral procedures, such as the re-entry procedure for road transport. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill also carries out the transfer of thermological changes. My fellow Member, Róbert Répássy, has just reported this in detail, and I do not wish to repeat it again in this regard. Ladies and Gentlemen, Following the above, let us look at the changes that have been made to the administrative procedure. On the one hand, technical amendments that coordinate the Kp. and the terminology of sectoral laws, on the other hand, the rules to be deregulated, which are derived from the Kp. and are maintained by the Kp. Following its entry into force, parallel regulation would be established, or Kp. rules contrary to its provisions. Thirdly, to adapt to Kp rules other than or supplementing Kp, which are intended to ensure the appearance of sectoral specificities by the courts. Ladies and Gentlemen, In particular, such amendments are as follows. The KP. As a result of its general clause, the possibility of recourse to a court becomes general in relation to administrative activities, so there is no need to provide for the opening of a judicial procedure separately in sectoral laws. The KP. It fully regulates the rules of competence and competence and, therefore, the exclusive competence rules governed by sectoral laws are reduced to a minimum. The KP. derogations from its rules on immediate protection of rights may be granted only in the case of a particularly justified sectoral interest, as it weakens the means of judicial protection. Thus, there is a limited provision to exclude immediate legal protection or the suspensory effect of filing an application. A shorter period than the 30-day time limit for submitting an application shall be allowed only in duly justified cases. Extraneousity is a legal institution in the system of judicial administration and therefore the rules on the out-of-court procedure in the sectoral rules are repealed by the proposal. The exclusion of the power of the court to reform shall take place only in cases requiring special expertise. In addition, there was an amendment to the provisions referring to non-court proceedings in the adversarial proceedings, where the administrative action replaced the previous non-court proceedings. In the case of non-contradictive administrative judicial proceedings, it was still justified to maintain the administrative non-court proceedings, in which case Pp is hereinafter referred to as the background rule. Kp will be used instead. However, according to the new rules, a court secretary in non-court proceedings can no longer make a decision on his own merits, ladies and gentlemen. On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-174	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of the Jobbik. Here.
u2017-04-19-175	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'm trying to get to the point. In a few points, I will, however, also address issues that have not yet been mentioned. This can be a joy for those who have listened to the debate, although there are not too many of us. Indeed, the proposal before us is largely a necessary technical amendment. There is no debate in this regard, since last year the Act on General Administrative Rules was adopted on 6 December 2016. This will enter into force on 1 January 2018. The Act on Administrative Procedure was also adopted as Act I of 2017, and will also enter into force on 1 January 2018, and this must obviously be transposed in sectoral laws, as has already been said before me. But I also agree with what has been said on the opposition side that this is not just about that, but unfortunately some substantive amendments have been smuggled into it, which is painful, because otherwise it would be easier to say yes to such a technical amendment than to extend it and bring these proposals here as a salad law. Even if, for the most part, it can be said that it is also a technical amendment, although it is not related to these two laws or procedural laws, but there are some that have raised questions for me, I will say this, and it would have been better to bring it to this House in a different way or in a different way. This is all the more true, since we are talking about a 490-page proposal, where looking at it and embalming it is always a major opposition task. Obviously, our apparatus cannot be compared with the apparatus of a ministry or government, and it is far better to be spoken out in the first place or to see that we are faced with a technical package of amendments, as in this case, that we should seek amendments that are substantive and do not belong to the administrative order or to the rules of procedure. What's this about? For example, amending the rules of hunting and authorising the government to regulate regulations. It is always the hunt, or very often the hunting provisions are those that appear hidden here and there. [[18.20]] I believe that this delegation provision is quite broad, and I must say that almost everything can be defined at government regulation level in the future. It would have been better to bring this in, if necessary, or regulate it at the statutory level. I have to say, it may not be surprising that it was again the subject of hunting that took place in such a passage. Then it looks like 141. § narrows customer rights in the Act on Health Insurance, since the regulation is supplemented by the fact that the form of contact is determined by the health insurance company - this would not in itself be from the devil - but the client cannot switch to another way. So if you can even determine the health insurance company, but then the client could ask you to switch to another form of information and contact, then I could accept it, but this is not fair to the customers. And if today's debates have already been a major part of the CEU's and foreign qualifications, so has the debate on accreditation, then there is a similar provision here, of course, from another aspect. It's 205. § introduces an additional section in the Act on the Recognition of Foreign Certificates and Certificates on the basis of which the decision may be amended or revoked in the official proceedings covered by this Act even if it infringes the rights acquired and exercised in good faith. A person always picks his head up when he sees the wording that something can be modified or revoked even if it violates the rights acquired and exercised in good faith. But that's not the only definition in this package of laws and salads, because if we keep going, we're gonna jump a big one on the 388. In addition, the amendment of the Law on the provision of persons with disabilities also contains a pass that may be more important than the previous one. This would include an additional section in the law concerning the modification and revocation of the decision taken in the procedure of the rehabilitation authority, and can also be done if the right acquired and exercised in good faith is violated. A more detailed policy debate would have been justified here too. The Secretary of State may be able to answer these questions, perhaps not, because I know that it is not easy for a 490-page law to answer things that are a policy issue. It may be a dispute between us whether this is actually a technical amendment or a substantive amendment, whether it will fall within the administrative order or the rules of the new administrative law. That is why it would have been better to separate everything and put only technical proposals into this salad proposal. " Then again, " I say, "it's obviously hard for me to get into the bottom of everything in such a large piece of legislation, " 223. In the case of § 3, the extended powers of the National Media and Infocommunication Authority concerning temporary insurance measures and the carrying out of other immediate procedural acts, I must be honest, this is not entirely understandable. This is about the inclusion of an additional provision in the Electronic Communications Act, which, if an immediate procedural act is justified - here is a list of the reasons why this may be justified: in order to protect public security and public order, and this is understandable in some respects, a danger to life, a threat to serious damage, even to some extent, the danger of life clearly, in the case of serious damage, there can always be a debate about what the situation is threatening to serious damage - but also the fact that it is included in the list in order to address a serious threat to the management or functioning of other service providers, users. So, if this situation exists - which I also think is a rubber definition - then the National Media and Infocommunications Authority is entitled to carry out an on-site inspection despite the opening of the closed area, building, room and the will of the persons staying there. It doesn't tell me what to think about if this authority, the NMHH, is going to do it human, or if they are going to use police authority, or if the administrator is going to kick the door at the service provider or the user, if they consider it necessary to do so immediately. I must think that even in this case, a specific amendment would be necessary, or that when the Parliament wanted to decide or negotiate electronic communications, these passages could have been included. I say this by saying that there may be some sort of elaborate order, or the legislator, or the Ministry of the Prosecution, had some kind of insight into this. For me, this is still a little vague, and I would like to point out, in particular, that this can come up in a situation that threatens the service provider, the user and its operation. And then exactly what that is, it didn't come out to me that way. And then a little note at the end. This seems to be a technical amendment, but it also touches on the general administrative procedure itself, so it not only introduces technical amendments, but also touches on the law adopted last year. Everything can be explained, but it would have been more elegant if these passes had been adopted last year, and the current proposal was only about technical transfer. I would not like to go further on the points that we feel are technical. On this basis, I feel that we will only be able to put one stay on the proposal, despite the fact that most of the 490 pages are indeed technical. But it would have been better to do so, Mr Secretary, so that we really couldn't find such a substantial part of it. I know that the legislative desire is always great when such a big package comes along to get this and that. In this case, in addition to the fact that the proposal clearly performs its task in terms of technical points, but unfortunately, some of it goes beyond that, so we will only be able to tolerate this by abstaining from our faction. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-176	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, There's no independent congressman in the room. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his native language and then translate it into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani predseniče! Poštovana Skupštino! U vezi predloga zakona T/15065 o opštem procesnom pravu javne uprave a u kontekstu odredbi koje se odnose na prava narodnosti, zelim da Vam se obratim. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, shall enter into force. Act and Act I of 2017 on Administrative Rules of Procedure were discussed by the Parliament as a minority item, so it is also important for us to monitor the legislative amendments related to their entry into force. The T/15065. A total of 245 legislative acts on the subject of public procedural and administrative litigation, including such provisions, are required to be adapted to the general administrative procedure and administrative procedure. [[18.30]] I would like to highlight three of these pieces of legislation that are relevant for different reasons, but also directly for nationalities. The proposed amendment of the bill, which directly affects all national authorities, is the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Law 104. § ( 1) to (3). The bill is 391. According to Paragraph 7 of the Article, the Treasury shall keep records of, inter alia, the national authorities and their association, and the register of herd-books shall be regarded as a public official register. We welcome the fact that, according to the bill, ensuring consistency with the general administrative order also entails a shorter procedural deadline for keeping the register than the legislation currently in force. From a national point of view, provisions on the use of nationality languages are always particularly relevant, as they promote one of the most important individual nationality laws. This may be a strange and obviously not the most common manifestation of T/15065. The 2014 LXXVI bill on scientific research, development and innovation. 483 concerning the amendment of Law No 483 § (c) of the Hungarian Intellectual Property Office provides for the application of the rules of the Act on General Administrative Rules concerning the use of languages in respect of the certification procedures carried out by the National Intellectual Property Office, with the exception that the procedure is in Hungarian and ethnic language, the application must be submitted in Hungarian and ethnic language. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. Article 20 (3) of Act No. 20 provides for the use of nationality languages as follows:. The person acting on behalf of the NGO of nationality and the natural person subject to the law on the rights of nationalities may use his nationality language with the authority. The decision in the Hungarian language on the application submitted in the language of nationality shall be translated by the authority into the language used in the application at the request of the client. § 3 is more limited than the use of the language specified in paragraph 3. The amendment is intended solely to amend terminology, which is essential for the entry into force of the general administrative procedure, and does not represent a substantial shift. We consider the possibility of full acceptance and application of the language of nationality to be considered. The T/15065. The 2011 law on national public education is also being amended. Since a number of national minority self-governments maintain nationality public education institutions, the 2011 CXCIV on national public education. The amendment to the Act will be monitored in particular. The fact that, according to the bill, the detailed rules for the issuing of licences for our public education institutions are no longer laid down in the Ministerial Decree on Education, but at a higher level of government regulation, is an important change for national authorities as institutional supporters. Among other things, the bill amends Article 96 of the Public Education Act. Paragraph 3a. This would be as follows:. In matters relating to the support of church legal persons, national authorities and private institutions provided by the Central Budget Act, the missing evidence cannot be replaced by the client's statement. The pending decision does not need to be settled on the legal practice applied for and the check cannot be initiated at the request of the maintenance. § 64 recognises the client's statement in the applicable means of proof. § provides a prominent role for the client's statement. Article 64 However, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the client may be excluded from filling in the missing evidence that cannot be obtained by means of his statement. The bill is Article 96 of the Public Education Act. In paragraph 3a of Section 3a of the Act on the Central Budget, it would therefore rule out that the missing evidence may be replaced by the client's statement in matters relating to maintenance aid provided for by the Act on the Central Budget. The explanatory memorandum to the bill does not state why this restriction is necessary, according to the author. The general administrative procedure is 64. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 allows the acceptance of the client declaration as evidence only in the case of missing evidence. Compared to this, we do not consider it justified that in matters relating to the support of the maintenance of church, nationalities and private institutions provided by the Central Budget Act, this possibility should not be available to the maintenance ecclesiastical and ethnic authorities and private institutions. The general administrative procedure has serious legal consequences for making a false declaration 64. Paragraph 2 of Article 2 and the Criminal Code, therefore there is no need to fear abusive statements in these proceedings. At the same time, it can simplify the handling of maintenance aid cases. Local government maintainers belonging to the municipal sub-system of general government are subject to general government accounting and reporting rules and management provisions in the same way as public education institutions maintained by the State. Therefore, in particular, there is no justification for this tightening up in the case of minority self-government maintainers. With this exception, our overall committee is T/15065. It supports bill No 1. Thank you for listening. Hvala na pažnji. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-178	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to answer. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Very briefly.]] Here you go.
u2017-04-19-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some points have been raised as to why certain sectoral rules are regulated at government regulation level, and why the mandate is published at government regulation level. As I pointed out in the expozee, from ministerial level to government regulation, to legal level, which is why the government has been designated in certain cases. NMHH has been informed of the authority's procedure for entering a restricted location. Obviously, you're doing this on the basis of police cooperation and prosecutor's permission. Therefore, the general rules also apply to these cases. Perhaps these were the ones most affected. What I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, is that there are certain amendments, not just technical ones. The policy discussions with the wallets have been conducted, and obviously we have only tried to bring the amendments through with the technical ones, but the needs of the wallets have also been taken into account in the transposition of them. This may have led to minor differences that go beyond the technical framework. Thank you very much.
u2017-04-19-180	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the rules for the collection of confidential information relating to the new law on criminal proceedings and amending the provisions on the order in which civil rights claims are satisfied to the victim during judicial enforcement will follow. [[18.40]] The government referral is T/15054. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I now give the floor to State Secretary Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the author. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before you on the rules for the collection of confidential information concerning the new law on criminal proceedings and amending the provisions on the order in which civil rights claims are satisfied to the victim during judicial enforcement deals with two distinct areas. On the one hand, it intends to renew the rules for collecting classified information in view of changes in the content of the new Code of Criminal Procedure and on the other hand to provide victims of criminal offences with a more favourable position in the implementation of the civil rights requirements granted, in order to better enforce such needs. The Parliament held the general debate on the draft law on new criminal proceedings on 8 March 2017. As was said then, one of the most significant innovations of the New Criminal Procedure Act is to integrate the rules for the collection of confidential information in the Criminal Procedure Act in order to detect and prove criminal offences and to include this specific investigative activity in a simple, transparent and coherent system with other criminal proceedings provisions. The new bill on criminal proceedings provides for more detailed regulation and higher guarantees on a number of issues than in force. The purpose of this more detailed regulation is to lay down transparent, verifiable and accountable rules on official activities. As a consequence of the conceptual transformation, following the adoption of the new law on criminal proceedings, no secret information gathering for law enforcement purposes investigating a specific criminal offence may be carried out under sectoral law concerning the bodies empowered to investigate. Such activities will only be carried out under the Law on Criminal Procedure and under the provisions on concealed assets. The reform of the rules on criminal proceedings and the reforms envisaged in the new law on criminal proceedings also make it impossible to amend the sectoral laws on the collection of confidential information, such as the law on police, the law on national security services, the law on the National Tax and Customs Office and the law on prosecutors. Therefore, only with the amendments contained in the bill we are discussing now can the legislator ensure a normative environment in support of the achievement of the objectives set and the promotion of more effective law enforcement activities in accordance with our intentions. In view of the set of objectives and means of covert instruments established in the new bill on criminal proceedings, only the secret collection of information not related to the suspicion of a specific criminal offence may remain in the above-mentioned sectoral laws. However, the provisions of other laws governing the collection of confidential information must also be brought into line with the provisions of the new Code of Criminal Procedure, since there are identical principles behind both data acquisition. The link between intelligence gathering and other purposes should therefore also be arranged. The two main sectoral laws affected by the amendment, the law on police and the Act on NAV, provide for the regulation of confidential information collection largely in the form in force, and therefore the shortcomings of the two rules are identical. For example, it causes confusion of conceptual importance that both laws define tasks that overlap with criminal proceedings, which cause uncertainty in application. Both laws are equally concerned that the regulation of the relationship between the objectives and the statutory tasks of the secret information collecting bodies is currently not sufficiently developed. This is particularly true with regard to the departments of the police established for the performance of certain specific tasks. Therefore, it is essential to clarify the definition of the tasks of each body and to define the objectives which provide for the possibility of normative consideration, in order to maintain legal certainty and to increase the level of ambition to a higher guarantee level. In the case of both laws, it can be concluded that the rules for certain means of collecting classified information are not coherent, that the provisions of the same instruments are scattered within the relevant chapter. In other cases, certain provisions are not sufficiently circumstantial, such as covert investigators and secret information gathering tools subject to judicial authorisation. Ladies and gentlemen, The most important objective of the bill before you is to correct and raise the rules for collecting classified information to a higher guarantee level, which can be summarised in three main points. On the one hand, the separation of secret intelligence gathering for law enforcement purposes from the collection of classified information for other purposes of law enforcement or national security, and, on the other hand, the transfer of the normative provisions set out in the bill on new criminal proceedings into sectoral laws, and, on the third, the elimination of inconsistencies in countless places. The first main direction of amendments to sectoral laws is the change underlying the continuation of the gathering of confidential information, which concerns the objectives permitted by the law. Accordingly, as a result of the amendments contained in the proposal, the detection, interruption of the specific crime, the search for property resulting from the criminal offence, the capture of the perpetrator and the acquisition of evidence as an objective are removed from these laws. Some of the objectives of collecting classified information set out in sectoral laws are proposed to be adapted to the statutory tasks of the bodies collecting classified information and to provide a system of criteria that can be used for authorisation. As regards certain objectives of the secret gathering of information of a police nature laid down in those laws, the new provisions under the proposal, adapted to the statutory tasks of the bodies collecting classified information, now clearly define the content of each purpose and provide a system of criteria that can be applied in the course of authorisation. It should be stressed that, in terms of objectives, the proposal seeks to achieve better regulation that meets the norm requirements by means of consistent, precise wording and presentation of the objectives currently in force in the laws to be amended. In view of the history, it is necessary to address the possibility and regulation of the collection of classified information for crime prevention purposes. In this respect, it should be stressed that it is included in the existing legal provisions. Therefore, the proposal does not set out a completely new objective of gathering classified information in this context. The main problem in this regard is the lack of a normative definition of what is meant by crime prevention and what is covered by this type of secret information gathering activity. The proposal seeks to fill this gap. In this respect, the proposal seeks to establish a stepwise definition solution. In view of this, the most general nature of the task of the police as an organisation sets out what should normally be understood as a crime prevention activity. This general definition of tasks is already followed specifically by a normative system for the collection of classified information, which sets out the conditions under which secret information may normally be collected for crime prevention purposes. This set of conditions is narrower than the general definition of crime prevention among the police's duties. In general, this wording also applies to the collection of confidential information, i.e. instruments which are not subject to judicial authorisation. Finally, the last step of the regulation concerns the application of the most restrictive instruments subject to judicial authorisation. In this context, the proposal also sets narrower and more specific conditions than the previous one against the use of instruments subject to judicial authorisation for the purpose of preventing crime. It should be pointed out that this provision of the proposal only permits the collection of confidential information subject to a judicial authorisation for the purpose of preventing crime in the course of action against organised crime. In this context, the objectives of the proposal have narrowed compared to those of the previous draft rules. The second hub for the changes is to create coherence with the system of covert instruments regulated in the new bill on criminal proceedings. The new Code of Criminal Procedure, together with covert instruments, has also amended the basis for regulating the collection of confidential information for other purposes. For this reason, the proposal also makes technical amendments to the provisions of the same nature in the course of the two types of data acquisition in order to establish a uniform terminology. An example is the uniform wording of the rules of each instrument and of the authorisation procedure. Finally, the third subject of amendments to the secret gathering of information is the correction of technical inconsistencies, obvious inaccuracies and unreasonable codification solutions. [[18.50]] I would like to stress that the proposal does not aim to change the content of the current framework for non-criminal intelligence collection in sectoral legislation. The proposal does nothing and does not change the distinction between instruments that are contained in the laws currently in force. There is no change in the two groups of devices called basically confidential gathering of information, non-licensed assets and licensed assets. Thus, both wiretap, computer or housing secret search and recording, and monitoring of electronic communications traffic will remain a means of judicial approval. At the same time, there will be guaranteeing progress towards a higher degree of control, on which two regulatory issues should be highlighted. One is the order to collect classified information and the other is the use of secret tools. The proposal makes progress in both cases, because while the discretion of the judge is not defined in the current law of the police, the proposal establishes a system of criteria to be examined at the time of the order. With regard to the process of using secret devices, the possibility for the judge to request the documents at any time after the licence has been issued to verify that the secret activity is carried out in accordance with the authorisation. And if the judge finds that the scope of the permit is exceeded, he may stop the secret gathering of information he considers illegal. It is also a serious guarantee that the proposal provides for a precise period of time proportional to all police purposes for the deadline for authorisation. As regards the area of data processing, it should be pointed out that the proposal sets a precise period for the retention of the data resulting from the collection of confidential information in line with each purpose. As regards the National Security Services Act, the proposal does not affect national security tasks, the activities of national security services are not affected in substance, but contains only the necessary changes due to the transfer of terminology in the new bill of criminal proceedings. In addition to the rules for collecting classified information, the proposal also amends the law on judicial enforcement. Victims of criminal offences are promoted in the order of execution satisfaction by proposing that the victim's claim for compensation should be met in a way that prevents public claims, such as the recovery of criminal costs. In doing so, the legislator would deal with a long-standing situation which could be considered unfair to victims. This part of the proposal is specifically linked to the government's objective of creating a new Code of Criminal Procedure, based on which it was expected to create a better legal environment for victims in criminal proceedings. I think it can be said that there is also a consensus between the government and the parties on this issue, and everyone agrees with this legislative objective. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, you have also been able to ascertain that the proposal is based on a professional basis, both for the collection of confidential information and for the implementation procedure. The aim of the new rules is to develop a more precise, more precise, more efficient procedure by reviewing legislation that is currently conflicting, which is also characterised by legal uncertainty in the application of the law. I would ask you to support the proposal, together with the new law on criminal proceedings, to improve the organisation of the collection of confidential information which is the border area of criminal proceedings. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-182	Thank you very much. The main speakers will now be followed, first by Mr Répássy Róbert, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-183	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me the subjective opinion, subjective assessment, that this is perhaps the most important bill on the House's table today. [[Moore in the opposition benches.]] The bill, together with the bill for criminal proceedings, sets the rules for collecting classified information on a new basis. The regulation of the use of secret service tools is a key issue of all civil democracy, since the state violates or restricts the most fundamental human rights when it explores citizens' secrets by means of covert means for legitimate purposes. The bill before us expands the constitutional guarantees under which public bodies may carry out secret gatherings of information. Therefore, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the bill. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The bill can be interpreted in conjunction with the new bill for criminal proceedings, so it is right that the Parliament discusses these two proposals in parallel. The most important innovation of the bill - when I am talking about it, I always wish to present the reform of the use of secret service tools together with the law on criminal proceedings - is therefore the most important reform step between secret intelligence gathering for law enforcement purposes and the clear separation of secret intelligence gathering for law enforcement and national security purposes. So far, these information gathering rules have not been sufficiently delineated in so-called sectoral laws, the boundaries of how long it takes to collect information for law enforcement purposes and when it may begin to enforce other aspects. The new Code of Criminal Procedure ensures that, so far, only the bodies acting under sectoral law are now carrying out this type of activity within the guarantee framework provided by the Criminal Procedure Act in order to establish the suspicion of criminal offences, thereby also encouraging the ex ante detection bodies to pursue real-time criminal proceedings. Among other things, the above innovation will allow the possibility of external prosecutor control over such secret detection activities compared to the system in force. As a result of the amendments contained in the proposal, the detection, interruption of the specific crime, the search for property resulting from the commission of the offence, the capture of the perpetrator and the acquisition of evidence as an objective are removed from these sectoral laws, because they are included in the new law on criminal proceedings. Some of the objectives of collecting classified information set out in sectoral laws are proposed to be adapted to the statutory tasks of the bodies collecting classified information and also to serve as a system of criteria that can be used for authorisation. The collection of classified information for crime prevention purposes will be given a normative definition according to the new rules that will clearly define what is meant by crime prevention and what could be covered by secret information gathering activities. The amendment defines crime prevention activities as criminal intelligence activities, the subject of which is not a particular crime, so it is not a specific crime, but a crime that threatens Hungary's social order. The proposal only allows for the collection of confidential information subject to judicial authorisation for the purpose of preventing crime in the course of action against organised crime. As the Secretary of State has explained in detail, the proposal creates new guarantees, but does not fundamentally change the two types of devices called secret gathering of information, the unauthorized and externally subject to authorisation. At the same time, a higher degree of control will be guaranteed, as both in order and in execution, the ordering court will have a greater say in control, namely that the judge's discretion, the criteria to be examined, will be included in the law. By doing so, we are putting in place a guarantee rule, since the existing laws have not laid down the criteria of discretion to be followed at the time of the order. In the same way, control is strengthened by monitoring the secret information gathering activity in the process of the judge. In fact, in some cases, if you find that you do not carry out the secret gathering activity in accordance with the authorisation, you will be able to prohibit the continuation of this activity. [[19.00]] The proposal also pays much more attention to time limits that have not been properly regulated so far, and the deadlines are more precise according to the new law. The proposal does not affect national security tasks, the activities of national security services, but only because of the new criminal law law and, at the same time, the use of the secret service instrument for crime prevention or law enforcement purposes. Dear House, The biggest innovation of the proposal, as I said, is trying to clean up who can use secret service tools in Hungary on the basis of which mandate, does not fundamentally change the existing regulatory system. So the significance of this proposal is that it is more than two decades - more than two decades! - the secret service activities provided for in the national security law continue with the same guarantees, but the use of secret service instruments for law enforcement or crime prevention purposes is enhanced by new guarantee rules. I very much hope that my fellow opposition Members will not look at this bill in the same mood as it was said this morning, because this morning they cried out snakes and frogs, but especially dictatorships, towards the government. [[Dr. László Kács: Mostly Imre Vejkey!]] I am very confident that opposition representatives recognise that extending the continuation of secret service activities with new guarantees would not weaken the rule of law but strengthen the rule of law. That is why I am confident that the two-thirds provisions of the new Code of Criminal Procedure and the provisions of these laws, such as the amendment of the law of the police, which also requires the votes of the opposition, are not affected by the atmosphere this morning, but, indeed, by the professional aspects mentioned by the Secretary of State, but I also add this certain guarantee aspect. Please do not deprive Hungarian citizens of the possibility of adding new guarantees to the legal regulation of the secret service activity affecting them. I therefore ask with respect for the support of the bill. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-184	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP, please.
u2017-04-19-185	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is a bill of great importance, although you may be worthy of this weight, the bill on civil affairs was also today, or even, I think it should not be devalued. [[Laughing:]] Nor the Convention on Aid for Crime between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] But it's a fact and it's true that today is a very important proposal. My fellow Member has just spoken about the atmosphere as a lead speaker. However, I would like to point out to your attention that the atmosphere depends to a large extent on the attitude of the government to the opposition, the attitude of the opposition's powers, the manner in which it cooperates or takes note of or accepts opposition proposals and comments, and, indeed, when it comes to mood, the current Fidesz government is certainly not looking very well. I think that if you have asked us to be accountable for why we spoke about dictatorship, then you should also ask my fellow Member of the KDNP, because he was talking about Brussels building a dictatorship. I suppose if he can say that, then we can say that in Hungary about the Hungarian government. But in order to put aside this political or political hand or battle, the mood - and I do not bring it here as a joke - is important, because the mood also determines the level of confidence, and it is indeed, in this respect, not negligible what level of confidence in the government appears in opposition representatives or anyone else, in the Hungarian society as a whole, and I see that this level of confidence is also very low. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that there was a Socialist Member, Dezső Believing, who had been deliberately provoked, observed by secret service means, so he was accused of a crime, and then the court acquitted Dezső Believing in second degree, while the exact same data collection was carried out against him, his office, his various offices, his various offices, for several months, he was extorted, provoked, and a public criminal was involved in this case, and at the end he was exonerated by the courts. So when such things are experienced by an opposition party, I think it is right to think that there is a need to pay attention to what the government wants and what the government is doing. Nevertheless, it is true that my fellow Member Répássy is right that there are some guarantee elements that represent progress in relation to the previous or precisely, I would say, the current regulation, but I would nevertheless like to raise some problems or issues that are important to us, which our group leader has already informed the Ministry of Justice about. One of these, which I would like to suggest first, is why the Ministry of Justice does not resolve the problem of the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which is about the possibility of carrying out a secret gathering of information with a ministerial license and not imposing a judge, so this does not appear, this amendment is not included in this proposal, and we believe that there would be a place for this right now, and it would be necessary. Then the second, in which there was a debate in the press, which was probably caused by a misinterpretation, but I would ask the Secretary of State anyway. An article was published in the Hungarian Nation, which said that you can listen to someone without suspicion. Now, everyone here has accused everyone of how unprofessional the argument is on this issue, but as far as I know it, there is currently an opportunity to do so on the basis of the current legislation in force, and there will still be a legal possibility. It is true that this law or this amendment does not change this situation or introduce this possibility, but this is nothing new, as this is the essence of the secret gathering of information outside of criminal proceedings. The third one, which I would like to raise, is that, in our view, it is conceptually questionable whether, in the way proposed, the prevention of criminal offences and the detection of criminal offences can be properly disrupted, so where this border is, how can this be withdrawn or guaranteed, so that there is a difference that can be felt and applied in practice. Then the fourth, which we have just mentioned, is that since its introduction, we have opposed the current form of confidence assessment that the government or Parliament has previously adopted, especially with regard to provocation. This could also have been arranged within the framework of this law, as it also allows secret gathering of information, the use of concealed tools, even provocation, even by committing a criminal offence by the provocative officials. The fifth issue is that there are also serious professional concerns about the secret gathering of information from the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the rules on this issue are, in our view, of concern, and does not make any amendments to this, so this current bill does not substantially modify these rules. Then the sixth point I would like to raise is that the draft does not reflect the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Matthew Szabó and Beatrix v Hungary, which also established a breach of the Convention in the context of the rules on the collection of classified information for national security purposes of the Counter-Terrorism Centre. [[19.10]] So these are some of the points I wanted to highlight, either because of the shortness of time or at least because of the long debates in which we have concerns about the current plan, or because there is something that is not settled, or because something is not well settled in this bill. And once again, I would like to emphasise, as Mr Répássy said, that there are indeed several guarantee elements in this new amendment proposal or in this new law, but these are not enough to enable the MSZP fraction to support this current bill. It is likely that if there were a different level of confidence between the government and the opposition, or if, in previous practice, we saw that there was indeed some honest practice being followed by the government and such, indeed from a national point of view, in matters of national security or even in other cases of foreign policy, there would be any kind of consultation or consensus, then it is certain that we would have come to this debate today in a different mood, but because of the specific experience in the fact that we have just mentioned, and what my fellow Member had to suffer, this confidence is not at the level that we could support such a proposal without incorporating other guarantees and changes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-04-19-186	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of KDNP, please.
u2017-04-19-187	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 February 2017, the Government submitted to Parliament a bill on new criminal proceedings. The new Be. it intends to transform the current rules of classified information collection and intelligence collection according to a completely new system, with comprehensive regulation of secret intelligence gathering for law enforcement purposes. The new Be. The purpose of its relevant rules is to integrate and more transparently regulate the rules for the collection of confidential information in the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to detect and prove criminal offences. As a consequence of the conceptual transformation, following the adoption of the new law on criminal proceedings, no secret information could be collected for law enforcement purposes investigating a specific criminal offence under sectoral law applicable to bodies eligible for investigation. The changes included in the new Be. can be achieved if the rules for collecting classified criminal information and collecting classified information for purposes other than law enforcement, i.e. law enforcement and national security, are developed in accordance with the new system. Due to the integration of intelligence for law enforcement purposes into the new Be., a new procedural phase prior to the investigation, called the preparatory procedure, which is also included in the new Be. In principle, criminal proceedings continue to be based on suspicion of criminal offences, but in order to facilitate the proactive capacity of criminal proceedings, the new Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the possibility of prior detection by the preparatory procedure, with a view to establishing or excluding suspicion of criminal offences. The new Be. Therefore, due to its system, the relevant sectoral laws, the law on police, the law on national security services, the National Tax and Customs Office Act and the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Office Act are unavoidable, since the sectoral laws in force contain in several places inaccuracies and unreasonable codification solutions for the collection of confidential information. Therefore, it is essential to clarify the so-called role-setting provisions of each body and to define each objective in a way that provides for the possibility of weighing on a normative basis, in order to maintain legal certainty and increase the target-boundity to a higher guarantee level. It is not enough to name specific objectives, but it is also necessary to associate a normative set of criteria and definitions for each purpose, since the substantive assessment of the legality of secret information collection can be carried out either in the context of authorisation or in the context of implementation only on the basis of clear concepts and defined criteria. All Rtv. , both NAV TV. where it can be established that the rules for certain means of collecting classified information are not coherent, the provisions of the same means are scattered within the relevant chapter. Ladies and Gentlemen, LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement As regards the provisions of the law on the order in which victims of crime are satisfied, there has long been a situation for victims to be considered unfair because they are unable to enforce civil rights claims in substance because the court judges compensation in vain, but, for example, the State takes away the burdened property in the context of the recovery of criminal costs. It was therefore a legitimate expectation that we should create a better legal environment for victims. To these expectations, the Vht. some of the provisions are currently not in line. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of the amendment to the provisions on the collection of classified information is to clearly define what is meant by crime prevention and what is covered by the secret information gathering activity. The Rtv. 65th new Paragraph 1 of Section 1 sets out the conditions under which secret information may normally be collected for crime prevention purposes. Even under these circumstances, the bill allows the use of instruments subject to judicial authorisation for the purpose of preventing crime only under additional and more specific conditions. Ladies and Gentlemen, One of the conceptual elements of the comprehensive reform of the collection of classified information is that all laws governing the collection of classified information define this special activity in the same way and the general conditions for its continuation. The new Be. amends the basis for regulating the collection of confidential information for other purposes, together with the covert means. The proposal therefore establishes a definition consistent with the new Code of Criminal Procedure for the collection of confidential information and builds the system of regulation in the same structure as Be., in the case of provisions of the same nature, with a view to establishing uniform terminology, by making technical amendments. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal does not change the sectoral laws in the current framework of non-criminal intelligence gathering; it does nothing and does not change the distinction between instruments that currently exist under the laws in force. The two groups of devices, which are commonly referred to as "secret information gathering', are not subject to authorisation and are subject to authorisation. At the same time, there will be a higher degree of auditability both in order to collect confidential information and in its implementation. The proposal makes progress in both cases, because while the discretion of the judge is not defined in the current law of the police, the proposal establishes a system of criteria to be examined at the time of the order. With regard to the process of using secret devices, the possibility is opened that the judge, after issuing the licence, will at any time request the documents in order to verify whether the secret activity takes place in accordance with the authorisation and, in the final case, prohibit the continuation of the activity. [[19.20]] The proposal provides for a time limit for authorisation to be proportionate and precise for all purposes of law enforcement. Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, the point of the amendment to the implementing law is, therefore, that victims of crime should be promoted in the order of execution satisfaction by preventing public claims, such as the recovery of criminal costs, from meeting the victims' claims for compensation. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-188	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Staudt, lead speaker of Jobbik, will be the next speaker.
u2017-04-19-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The debate on the law on criminal proceedings has already been initiated by this House, and the vote has not yet taken place, and it has been mentioned in the preliminary discussions that this proposal, which amends the other laws necessary for its entry into force, will come before this House, and Parliament will practically negotiate and agree on the adoption of the two laws in parallel. This will ensure that Members have full insight into what they are voting on. I thought it was important to say this because the Criminal Procedure Act was preceded by long debates and discussions. I have repeatedly said that it is positive that there has been a lot of negotiations in this case, so this proposal can be mentioned as an example. Unfortunately, the government does not do so in most of these cases, but it is clear to the State Secretary present that this proposal has passed through political and expert discussions in this case. I am talking about the two proposals together, the law on criminal proceedings, and this which lies before us. In both cases, this happened anyway. I will point out that the amendment of the implementing rules was included in the proposal in accordance with such a request, our preliminary request, but I would like, as I said, to comment on this a little later. However, what is very important and can be said as a basic principle, and in the Criminal Procedure Act, we have said that it is certainly welcome that the guarantee elements will be incorporated and that, as far as secret information is concerned, they will become part of the Criminal Procedure Act and criminal proceedings. This, I think, was said by our fellow Member Gergely Bárándy even in the debate on the Code of Criminal Procedure. I did not understand why Zsolt Semjén was the author of the proposal and only the rapporteur of the Ministry of Justice. I was waiting for Zsolt Semjén to be here and present these suggestions, but in this case it may be a formal matter; the Ministry of Justice could have done that. Then, in connection with the secret gathering of information, after the debate of the Criminal Procedure Act, news appeared in the press, which, I must say from the opposition, were only partly or only very limited, so it was a misunderstanding. I am pleased that Attila Mesterházy, my colleague before me, acknowledged this, by the way. Obviously, what the press is saying must be kept in mind, and it must be checked that in the event of a professional or professional opinion being revealed, it has a real background or not. In most cases, it usually does; in this case, as far as collecting classified information is concerned, and it is not my place to protect the government, but in this case, after the multi-turnal consultation, I have to say that what appeared in the press about this is an exaggeration. By the way, after the press reports, we asked the present experts and secretary of state for this proposal, a five-party consultation - which was also established, I was there - and at this meeting, let it be said here in front of this House, and I asked the present experts and secretary of state - although I have already tried to find the answer in advance with my modest tools, but I also asked if it would be said there - the most important thing is whether there is a change in the instruments subject to a judicial license or not bound to a judicial license, or if this law changes in relation to the proposals negotiated in criminal proceedings, whether this proposal will change. There, at this meeting - and again for the sake of the record, to be said here in Parliament - I was clearly told by the Secretary of State and the experts that there was no change. So most importantly and part of the message is that the instruments subject to a judicial licence, which have been defined in this way in criminal proceedings, in any other procedure, be it the preparatory procedure or any procedure, remain subject to judicial authorisation. So it cannot be bypassed, it cannot be bypassed, because perhaps this was the main message of the press news: whether it was a preparatory procedure or not, in the case of proceedings against a specific person, a specific suspect, they would then be able to search a flat, a vehicle, or search a shipment, and I was told that if a specific person came into the picture, the acquisition of a judicial license would be justified and not only justified, but mandatory. I say this, I think it is important that it should be said here in Parliament, and obviously Mr. Secretary of State can confirm or deny this in his closing. What has emerged as an important point and was the duration of its application, which is also set out in this proposal, in the case of devices subject to a different licence or, in particular, a licence. I would not explain this in detail, and everyone can look for it; and what is still positive to me is that the court can review its license. This was once again an old request, and I am not saying that it was only us who asked for it or just came up with it, I suppose it could be said by the Bar Association, or by the profession, that after the court has issued a permit, circumstances can change, or that it is obvious that compliance with it or that its review should be carried out by a court. So this is welcome, and it was an old desire to be included in the law, because it is easy to avoid the fact that the circumstances are justified by the authority, by the police, when this motion arrives at the court, but then it may be different from this permit, or it may be later that the reasons for this will no longer exist, and then it is applied, and the court has limited means, since it has already issued this authorisation. So, in itself, this is also a welcome point. I must also say that, as I said, the proposal concerning the amendment of the implementing law is particularly heartwarming that it has come here, and it is not for nothing. After all, we have repeatedly submitted it to the Parliament as a separate proposal that the government should do something to ensure that, in many cases, there were several suggestions on what can be done in the event of the unsub's property being seized, but the criminal costs are large enough, and the state will take the entire property for the criminal costs, in fact, the victim will have nothing to do with it; the victim or the survivors' relatives. And in this case, even the minister could not give any permission or fairness under previous or existing regulations, nor could the minister and no one have been able to practice to change the order of satisfaction. Whether in a specific case or not, and obviously the laws were quite clear that first the State had the right to satisfy the costs of crime, and this prevented the victim or his relatives from claiming it. [[19.30]] By the way, the Cozma case was significant, which went all the way to the press, but I might as well say the Szögi case, in which case the amount of the seized property cannot be compared to the Cozma murder. So the classic example was the Cozma case when significant assets were seized from the perpetrators, but this was taken to the criminal costs by the state under the laws in force, and no one could do anything about it. Otherwise, it could also be mentioned that this might have occurred in the case of Gypsy murders. There, the state made up for the victims with a unique decision, I might add, by the way, quite rightly. The problem is that this didn't happen in the Cozma or the Szegi case. So it's not good for the state to be able to intervene in certain cases or to make money out of a sense of fairness. It is better to be able to achieve this on a systemic basis, at the level of the law. In fact, and once again, I note this in parentheses, Mr Secretary, our old desire - and as the budget stands before us, I will present this amending proposal - is to have a top-down line or a top-down budget, even in the Ministry of Justice's budget. This would serve to be able to apply for it with unsatisfyed claims and to be evaluated by experts from the Ministry of Justice or by the body set up to do so, who is most in need, has been judged, but has not been able to satisfy it. But I wouldn't bring that to you right now, because we're going to do this again in the budget debate. What is important is that in parallel with previous proposals, it was the modest person who made our proposals on behalf of Jobbik, not only that, but also other proposals when the Criminal Procedure Act was put to the debate in society. We had already indicated that we wanted to achieve a solution in the new law on criminal proceedings. We also knew that this also covered the enforcement law. So the situation was not so simple, of course it is closely linked to the law on criminal proceedings, but it requires the amendment of the law on enforcement. As I said, we also put forward our proposals in the conciliation of the law on criminal proceedings. By the way, many proposals, including technical ones, have been incorporated into the Law on Criminal Procedure. What could not be done, however, is the law on enforcement, since it does not directly concern the law on criminal proceedings, we have been promised that it may still be brought before Parliament. In this case, this has happened, and I am very happy for this, as I have said. I must also say that, for the sake of the record, it is accurate that this concerns civil and criminal claims for which a criminal offence has led to the establishment of a claim and the victim is a natural person, which will prevent the needs of the State. I also have to say that there are many points in the press as to why they are only natural persons or why they are not in the event of a violation. These are, of course, plausible. After all these years of fighting, I am not insatiable; I am very glad that this has been accepted in this circle. Of course, this can also be considered later in the case of infringements, obviously they are cases that produce minor criminal costs, so it is easier to collect directly on the perpetrator in general. Also, in the case of non-natural persons, such as companies who are injured, their interests tend to go further than the needs of a natural person or their relatives. So they were the most necessary in themselves, which had to be included in the law. I am also pleased that this can be included as a general rule in the implementing law, and there is no need to ask for a minister's permission, no need to ask anyone for permission to change the order of satisfaction. So in this case, it's a good regulation that goes into the law. Of course, we will look at the amendments, because the proposal can vary from one side to another. For the time being, I do not see a substantial step backwards, a substantive negative criticism or a substantive problem in the proposal that could not be supported, taking into account the proposals for amendments. Of course, until the final vote, the Jobbik faction will form its opinion, but we thank you for the amendment of the implementing law here and this time. I have to say, we've had a political struggle for many years right on the i. I hope, even I am sure, that this regulation will fulfil its purpose, and to many victims and relatives, and I say that although it would be important for as few victims and relatives as possible, we would like to see the number of crimes reduced, but where necessary, this regulation should create fairer relations. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-04-19-190	Thank you very much. The main speaker of the LMP, Mr István Ikotity, is now the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The concept of the bill before us is that evidence that can be used in criminal proceedings can only be obtained in criminal proceedings by means of a covert instrument, i.e. effective wiretapping, by means of an undercover investigator or otherwise without informing the person concerned, but by gathering information for a specific person. However, given that in many cases these instruments may already be necessary to clarify well-founded suspicion, i.e. they are necessary before the formal initiation of criminal proceedings, a new preparatory procedural stage will be entered in criminal proceedings, called the preparatory procedure. This would be continued by the police with investigative powers and by the NAV and, obviously, by the integrated financial services, but also by national security services without investigative powers. Overall, this is an improvement compared to the current situation, which is accompanied by the fact that the regulation will be fundamentally clean and precise and is an important positive factor compared to the rules in force, namely, that it is also marked in particular for all concealed instruments to be used for precisely what purpose it can be used for. According to the LMP, the fact that the observations currently regulated by a separate law, but which are in fact based on criminal proceedings today, are included in the criminal proceedings is no problem. The new law on criminal proceedings provides more detailed and precise guarantees for these proceedings, clearly defining their forms and fundamentally rationally dividing them into three parts, i.e. covert data collection without external authorisation, subject to a prosecutor's licence or subject to a judicial licence. What is, however, the primary problem with the proposal is that, in the case of surveillance instruments not linked to criminal proceedings, it does not seek reform, i.e. by declaring the objectives of ordering, but not by leaving them as they are at present. We do not agree with the maintenance of the status quo. Substantial restrictions would be needed to ensure adequate guarantees for privacy and protection of personal data. As a discussion paper for a workshop discussion recently put forward, I quote:.Populist political discourse is attracted to the representation of easy-to-understand contrasts, bargaining in the far water of terrorism may serve as an excuse for restrictions of the private sector that cannot be justified by a necessity-proportionality test. Allowing simplification to be tempted in certain exceptional situations to refrain from applying the necessity-proportionality test, we can expect the spread of similar exceptional situations and, in the medium term, the collapse of the democratic institutional system. Here's the end of the quote. Almost a year ago, we have not been able to find out what to do with the secret acquisition of information for national security purposes, which is subject to a decision in Strasbourg that was not yet dealt with, last year's Szabó and Wissy v Hungary, in the direct context of the powers of TEK based on police law, but referring to the national security law. It follows from the decision that the current guarantee scheme is not sufficient, because the Court of Strasbourg was not convinced that the regulation provides sufficient precise, effective and complete guarantees for the imposition, implementation and possibly for the review of the legality of such measures. [[19.40]] Therefore, the court has concluded that the Hungarian legislation violates Article 8 of the Convention, i.e. the right to privacy. In essence, anyone can be subject to the measures, the order is made entirely under the control of the executive authority and without strict examination of the necessity, and the new technologies allow the government to obtain mass data on persons not included in the original points (c) of the operation, with a complete lack of effective remedies. According to some strong professional opinions, the decision will lead to a narrowing of the grounds for the imposition of secret surveillance for national security purposes and to a precise indication of the area concerned, the completeisation of ex post judicial authorisation in the event of a generally ex ante imperative need, i.e. the replacement of the Minister of Justice's authorisation and the loss of national security interest. This can be argued and said that the decision in Strasbourg can in fact be formally achieved by either one or part of them, since the assessment of all sets of problems has led to the conclusion of an infringement. But something should now happen in this case, to which it is important to point out that, given that combating terrorism is a more important field of surveillance and data analysis with secret service methods at the moment than anything else, the Strasbourg court did not want to place the Member States' hands on the conceptual elements of the regulatory framework used. It is a difficult question, but it would be time for a government reaction to the above violation, along with the fact that, at present, in view of the threat of terrorism and the increasing activity of foreign services, it may not be realistic to bind the hands of the services in the way that it would, in principle, result from the most private interest. However, it should also be made clear that trust in the services and, above all, their effective political control would help even more than the introduction of formal judicial approval, because the latter is often only responsible because judges rarely dare to argue with the services, especially without professional control by reason of the nature of the cases, since the case involves classified information. As far as I know, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information has conducted a target study in recent months on these authorisations, and what is known at present is that no serious problems have been identified and the internal guarantees have been found legal in the specialist service. That is to say, there is probably very little judicial denial, and there is still formal control. As a matter of principle, the LMP considers that review and judicial procedure covering all cases should be considered, but it should be noted that, in the context of the implementation of a realistic decision in Strasbourg, it would be necessary to amend the rules on the specific semi-police, semi-secret service body, TEK, to narrow and clarify the scope of the confidential data collection which it can order. Unfortunately, the proposal does not comply. As long as TEK is not a purely secret service, it should only be able to order surveillance by technical means in the preparatory procedure in the event of suspicion of a criminal offence, and not at all in the absence of such suspicion. For them to be relatively free to search, there are services with no ordinary investigative powers, including Tibet, which now carry out specifically anti-terrorist tasks. It is also a problem in this area that the proposal maintains, in addition to the collection of data for national security purposes, the secret surveillance by technical means, which we do not agree with in principle, can be carried out without a judicial authorisation. Regardless of whether this is a more stringent requirement than is the result of the practice of the Constitutional Court and Strasbourg, we can only accept legislation that binds all forms of secret surveillance by technical means to judicial authorisation. In this respect, the planned previous version included versions A-, B to collect information from IT systems or not to be ordered without judicial permission. Of course it doesn't. But according to the LMP, it is also necessary to go further and to allow any secret surveillance by technical recording of data only if it has been approved in advance by the court. This bill does not comply. An important problem with the proposal is a significant extension of the time of order under the law of the police, in some cases 360 days. According to the LMP, it would also be useful to make the regulation more differentiated, but it is only eligible for shorter ordering times. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP therefore has a major problem with what is not in the proposal. The conceptual rethink of the constitutional control of the collection of classified information for national security purposes cannot be avoided by the government. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-19-192	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. On the other hand, Congressman Répássy, a representative of Fidesz, asked for a normal opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-193	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It is unlikely that I will take up much more of your time than if I had applied for two minutes, but I would like to give my position coherently on two issues. Several speakers touched on the Court's decision in Strasbourg to question whether the current so-called "external permit-linked secret gathering of information is in a good place and in a manner consistent with human rights with the Minister of Justice. Thus, the decision of the Court in Strasbourg calls into question the authorisation of the Minister of Justice. This is probably the right interpretation of the decision in Strasbourg in that Strasbourg did not necessarily say that the Minister of Justice could not have such a decision, but said that the decision had to be made by an organisation independent of the executive power. Obviously, the Minister of Justice cannot belong here in any way, but it does not necessarily follow that judicial decisions should be taken to replace the authorisation of the Minister of Justice. In fact, I have to say that in the Hungarian constitutional system it would simply be incomprehensible and would violate the principle of power-sharing, so that the judge would consider non-criminal aspects. Just think of the fact that national security aspects include, for example, intelligence activities and considerations. I wonder how the judge could consider whether the need to engage in intelligence against someone is justified. It's not a judge's normal operation. This is a government-specific or government-based consideration, if you will. However, this authorisation could, of course, be installed in an independent organisation, but here we must take strict account of the provisions of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, namely the aspects of the division of power. My second comment to the court decision in Strasbourg is that the Hungarian... - I simplify the problem, but the point is that in the Hungarian secret service tool application there is a form subject to judicial authorisation and there is a form required by the Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, Hang on: in several Member States of the European Union, we do not need a permit for the type of activity that we allow by the Minister of Justice. So there are a number of countries in which national security agencies are merely trying to collect classified information that is not for law enforcement purposes, so it cannot be used as evidence... because that's the point here, if secret information that can be used as evidence in court proceedings because of the rules of the fair trial, then it's certain that we need a judicial license. [[19.50]] But if it can not be used as evidence, but on the basis of the purely national security considerations, for example, for reasons of avoidance, secret information is collected, then in a number of Western European countries, the organization responsible for counterintelligence, i.e. the secret service, the internal counterintelligence, is not obliged to ask for any permission, but there is a political responsibility with the minister supervising it, and on the basis of this political responsibility, they can carry out a constitutional secret gathering of information. Thus, the decision of the Strasbourg Court is questionable in so far as it does not examine in general how these issues are regulated in European countries, but we have now come together not to criticise the Strasbourg Court on every agenda, but unfortunately, the decision of the Strasbourg Court is also questionable here too - that it has not examined at all how these issues are regulated in European countries, but that it has only examined this Hungarian case in relation to the TEK, and that the Strasbourg Court has set a standard in this decision that many other Member States do not comply with, but that they have not had such a good civil organisation that would object to collecting classified information for national security purposes, such as counter-terrorism purposes. So I stress that it is not evidence that can be used in criminal proceedings, but that other national security activities also generate classified information. In Hungary, this was approved by the Minister of Justice with a 20-year consensus, with a consensus of two decades, because the legislators recognized that it was right to link this secret service activity to an external license. As I said, there are two ways to gather intelligence from the Secret Service, the judicial path or the Justice Department's path. Dear House, The execution of the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg is, to say the least, problematic, namely, as I have said, in terms of the Hungarian division of power, because I wonder why the judge should authorise the intelligence activity I have just described. For example, it is not aimed at a Hungarian citizen; or not at the territory of Hungary, why should the Hungarian judge allow it when it has no jurisdiction to do so. I listened to the LMP speech here. Those who claim that any secret gathering of information should be allowed by a judge are not aware of the jurisdiction of the Hungarian judge. The jurisdiction of the Hungarian judge extends to Hungary. In very exceptional cases, there is, of course, a case outside Hungary, for example in the case of a criminal offence, but not in the case of an administrative activity. Dear House, No longer wasting their time, there is no doubt that you can take account of what is not in this bill, but you have left out questions from this bill that should not only be considered by Parliament, but the whole profession should consider how to execute the judgment of the Strasbourg court in such a way that it fits into the Hungarian constitutional system. This is not an easy task, and not only in this judgment in Strasbourg, but also in other judgments, it may not, to say the least, be in line with the Hungarian constitutional system. In this case, we are talking about a consensus of more than two decades. It's not about the new Fundamental Law, it's about two decades of national security practice. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-194	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-04-19-195	Thank you. I'll try to answer briefly, but some of the questioners have already left. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, had a suggestion about the judgment in Strasbourg. We also made it clear in the five-party that these are the issues of the Be. Mr Répássy also spoke about how the system will be adapted in the future. The legislative process was not the subject of this package of laws, which specifically adapted these laws to Be. I can only confirm that there will, of course, be no unsuspecting wiretaps in the future, as there has never been before. I can also confirm what relates to my fellow Member Staudt's question: there has in no way been a step backwards in the increased guarantee level of regulation. Which has caused difficulties for some who have not participated in the negotiations: the prevention of crime and the separation of the preparatory investigation phase in Be. it has been clearly implemented with its entry into the EU and the new legislation. So prevention remained in the Police Act and the NAV Act, while the pre-detection phase was included in the Be. Between his investigative stages. My fellow Member Ikotity has also raised issues, such as the 360-day limit that has now entered. I would like to reassure you that these are 90-day stages, so every 90 days the judge can decide to extend this. 360 days is a maximum that didn't exist in the law. Overall, I can confirm that the law before us essentially includes amendments to keep the structure of the law coherent after the elements included in the criminal proceedings, and continues to regulate surveillance for law enforcement, national security and crime prevention purposes, in our opinion, at a more guaranteeing level. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-196	Please. I'm just calling to the attention of the Secretary of State that Congressman Ikotity is doing his job as a notary, sitting right next to me, so he heard everything he said. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Thank you.]] Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. It follows the 2011 XLIX on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. a general debate on the amendment of law and the amendment of certain related laws until closure. The government referral is T/15066. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr Pál Völner, Minister of State of the Ministry of Justice, author. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill concerns judicial legislation, in order to ensure a more effective conduct of bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings that take place as civil non-court proceedings. The legislative package amending the bankruptcy law and certain related laws seeks to remove legal gaps and abuses in recent years, to establish coherence between legislation, and to simplify procedural steps which are often unnecessarily complicated and to improve regulation based on the experience of the case law. In order to increase the efficiency of winding-up proceedings, the proposal sets out the following objectives: full collection of the assets of bankruptcy; prevention, sanctioning and effective attacking of illegal transactions that reduce bankruptcy; reduction of administrative burdens that slow down procedures and make them more costly; more transparent and controlled procedures; reduction of unnecessary workload for judges, but also shortening of certain procedural time limits; protection of creditors' interests against fraudulent measures by the debtor, the debtor's owners and former managers; greater control of the winding-up activities of creditors; more effective state control of the insolvency profession - liquidation trustees - against them, increasing professional requirements, and the imposition of penalties with the gravity of the infringement by both the court and the authority leading to their registration. In winding-up proceedings, the legislative objective is to take greater account of the interests of creditors, i.e. to enforce the principle that public creditors and private creditors' claims should be repaid as much as possible when the insolvency firm is removed from the market. As part of this, the legislator set the objective of ensuring that liquidation costs do not increase unduly, and therefore the control of the courts and creditors over the operations of the winding-up bodies in connection with the operation of the debtor and the management of assets and the sale of assets will be more effective. The amendment reduces the workload of judges, while at the same time increasing the scope of court-secretary orders. The aim of the legislative package is also to clarify certain provisions that are problematic in the application of the law, to eliminate contradictions and to eliminate the problems indicated by the case law. Most importantly, the Government has taken into account the judicial opinions expressed in the case law analysis group set up in the Curia, including the experience of the lawsuits initiated by creditors or liquidators against the debtor's former leaders. [[20.00]] The bankruptcy law and the amendment of the company law aim, inter alia, to improve the effectiveness of actions against former managers who have ignored the interests of creditors in the insolvency or threat of insolvency of the debtor and, as a result, to reduce assets in the debtor's undertaking that have adversely affected the return on the creditors' claims. In addition, the amendment complements insolvency proceedings in the context of a change in civil material legislation, including clarifying the position of the holder of the right to buy and transfer for collateral in insolvency proceedings for the purpose of a pledge trust, i.e. registered in the collateral register. The package of laws complements the scope of statements of collateral that can be entered in the credit guarantee register with the fictitious collateral statements, linked to the latest amendment of the civil code. The amendment of the Insurance Act is necessary in order to enable anyone to know the fact that the debtor has committed his or her assets or a specified part of it as collateral. The success of winding-up proceedings is fundamentally influenced by the effective and complete collection of the debtor's assets. To this end, it was also necessary to detail the functions of the winding-up body and to amend other laws. The amendment makes the regulatory control of the winding-up bodies more effective, in particular in order to comply with the legal conditions. In court proceedings, there will also be more consistent accountability of winding-up bodies in order to fulfil their obligations under the legislation with due diligence. The government's aim is to increase professional requirements and to clearly define them in relation to winding-up organisations. Dear Parliament, The government's aim is to ensure that winding-up proceedings result in a higher return for creditors by speeding up procedures, increasing efficiency, collecting fully the assets of bankruptcy, reducing potential abuses and imposing more consistent sanctions. During the preparation of the law, therefore, the courts and professional organisations were consulted several times and their proposals were incorporated. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I also draw attention to the fact that the bill also takes into account the expectations of insolvency proceedings set out in the National Competitiveness Council's action plan to improve the competitiveness of the business environment. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome once again my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-19-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In a large part of my speech as Chief Speaker, I will also use the concepts indicated by the Secretary of State, but in the context that I am saying, I think it will not seem to be a repetition, although there is no doubt that the professional issues that have been addressed by the Secretary of State will be profoundly affected by me. Improving Hungary's competitiveness is in our primary interest - I think this statement is not an exaggeration - but it is also the basis for the development of the Hungarian economy. Therefore, the Government decided to set up the National Competitiveness Council in October 2016, which held its inaugural meeting on 23 March 2017. The Gremium has identified six areas where new initiatives are more necessary. These are the establishment of a company, the review of building permits, the supply of energy, tax administration, the protection of small owners and insolvency. The latter case concerns XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings before us. Act T/1506 on the amendment of Act T/1506 and of certain related laws. Bill No. 1. It is not difficult to see the connection that financial institutions that finance domestic businesses will lend to the business sector affordable interest conditions for the recovery of the Hungarian economy if the enforceability of real estate and other collateral is not reduced by insolvency proceedings and are not impossible. For this reason, the National Competitiveness Council has set out requirements to ensure that the recovery of creditors' needs in winding-up proceedings is as high as possible. One of the basic conditions for this is the protection of liquidation property. Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned that the full collection of the liquidation assets is and is necessary as a first step in the protection of the liquidation assets. The proposed amendment ensures consistency between legislation and aims to include information on the liquidation of property within a short period of time after the winding-up of liquidation. This is important because the debtor's former managers can't illegally dispose of the property and third parties can't buy it by circumventing the winding-up proceedings. Furthermore, the amendment of the bankruptcy law clarifies and complements the obligation of the debtor's former managers to transfer documents and assets to the liquidator. I also consider it an important measure to prevent, or sanction, illegal, decoding or other activities detrimental to the interests of creditors in winding-up proceedings. In addition, it is necessary to make more effective the lawsuits that are brought against the fraudulently acting former managers and business owners by injured creditors or liquidators. As the Secretary of State has also indicated, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these proposals for amendments include the recommendations of the National Association of Chargers and Asset Supervisors and the summary opinion of the case-law analysis group of the Curia adopted on 6 February 2017. The bill also clarifies the rules for the opening and conduct of such proceedings in the context of the recovery of former debtor's managers for the losses of creditors. The current legislation was contradictory, which could not be resolved by the interpretation of the case law, and therefore in many cases these lawsuits were unsuccessful. The amendment retains the two-step suing, however, the proposal of the claimants can only be brought within 90 days of the winding-up, since after the winding-up of the liquidation, it is clear which creditor's claim is not repaid, and whether this had a causal link with the previous measures taken by the debtor's former managers to reduce liquidation property. The proposal before us also includes amendments to the winding-ups, which provide for rules on the list of liquidators, the fine of the liquidator, the official control of the liquidators, and the overall transparency of the activities of the liquidators. It is also crucial for our competitiveness to reduce administrative burdens for courts, notaries and speed up procedures agreed with the National Court Office. It takes into account that the new civil code and its 2016 LXXVII. In line with its amendment to the law, the claim enforcement of the pledge trust, the rightholder and the self-reimbursement holder should be regulated in bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings. The current bankruptcy law does not regulate that the Ptk., as I mentioned, is the 2016 LXXVII. By amending law, the enforceability of the holders of the rights of guarantee in respect of legal persons has been made possible in bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings, which is a significant step forward. After all, the financial market has developed transactions, financial leases, factoring and repo transactions, which are covered by Ptk. It was necessary to deal with this and to incorporate it in the bill before us. According to the proposal, the holders of such collateral in rem should be regarded as so-called secured creditors in bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings, i.e. they have a privileged position, which means the following. In the bankruptcy proceedings, they form a separate creditor class, i.e. no arrangement can be reached without the vote of the majority of this creditor class. In winding-up proceedings, priority shall be given to satisfying the assets committed as collateral. [[20.10]] The holders of these collateral shall be entitled to this status if their legal statement has been entered in the security register or their right to purchase the property has been entered in the real estate register. The requirement of publicity is essential because of market traffic and the fair interests of other creditors. I'm convinced it's the Ptk. The transfer of the amendment made from 1 July 2016 after the entry into force of Law V of 2013 on 15 March 2014 constitutes a significant step forward in respect of collateral and allows, as I indicated in the opening thought, the proper provision of loans to banks on a larger scale, and the purpose of this is also the legislative proposal before us. I ask for its discussion and support and then its adoption. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-04-19-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We see this amendment proposal, and of course we also see that it has been on the website since 22 November, if it is true, for consultation. It is true that the impact assessment paper has not been included, and we are obviously unable to go without saying that since it has been on the website, it has been subject to a number of amendments. A number of textual things have been included in these two legislative provisions, so many changing sections or so many changing sections have joined the proposal that it would not be possible to recognise the first text anyway. These comprehensive amendments are not usually successful by the Ministry of Justice. Let us refer here to the question of a self-restraint, probably in this case as well. In any case, improving the bankruptcy law will probably not bring lasting results. By the way, our position differs from what the lead speaker of Fidesz said, and the two months left open for entry into force will probably not be enough. So here again, we must say that speed and simplicity are aspects of cooking, not when they may try to change bankruptcy laws and liquidation laws to encourage credit placements or investment in capital markets funds and thus start the economy. These will not be sufficient, but this initiative and this proposal are not adequately reflected in the past. What do we see here? Over the past few years, we have seen the broker scandals, companies collapsing one by one, first DRB Bank, then Buda-Cash, then Quaestor collapsed, and here I refer back to my fellow Member Dénes Galambos' speech as the lead speaker. It is possible to talk about the withdrawal of funds, some of the fraudulently acting participants or even owners. I put it on Parliament's table several times, and it didn't go beyond the Economic Commission either, because you voted it out of power, and we will now submit it as an amendment to this law, and we will be curious whether the goal you have set here is really the one. 'Cause what's in the legal justification has to be made clear what goes into bankruptcy. We believe that in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, the wealth, let's say, of a group of companies, should be included in all of its assets. I believe that from the events of early 2015 and after the way you have been disbanded, and as you have allowed them to carry away the hundred billion-dollar assets of Quaestor, as the individual assets of Buda-Cash have been included in the winding-up proceedings, other assets, such as the fund manager, are something - how should I put it? - it has not otherwise been included in the winding-up proceedings for an inexplicable reason; then we believe that it should not be considered on the basis of the law, but must be established by a commanding rule, or it must be stated that, if a liquidation proceeding is initiated against a member of a group of companies, it should be considered to be against the assets of all companies of the group, whether the winding-up proceedings should be conducted or even to cover all companies. We believe that this would help us, on the one hand, to learn the lessons we can learn from the beginning of 2015 and the subsequent loss of wealth, to deal with it properly, rather than to cover up the mistakes that occurred at that time. In fact, we are going further than that, if, by chance, either the insolvencyist or the bailiff is not acting properly but fraudulently, then it should not only be the liability insurance that may provide satisfaction to those who are injured by this, whether it be the Hungarian State or the small investors, but also to any contributor acting fraudulently, thus acting in direct wrong faith, whether it be the insolvencyist or the state's company, whoever it is, the assets of the creditors must be involved in this, in order to be satisfied. What we see here is that, rather than broadening this circle, as we have repeatedly asked, and which is not necessarily our request, but what we have seen in the last two years, and what has been the result of this, you have not learned the lesson, but have seen where this can really be profited. And, unfortunately, what we need to see is that in the case of the victims of broker scandals, how they couldn't have their money, that's one thing, but the fact that we're trying to raise it to the level of legal practice is probably even worse. That's what you learned from it, not how it can be solved. We do see that it will not include funds received and financed from the European Union, other international resources and accounting obligations in liquidation or bankrupt property. Then we have to ask: not even from the Jeremie program? There is always the biggest risk, the startup companies are 70 percent of the Hungarian capital funds that support you, so are they not included? So now they're going to give everyone some money, obviously it's not going to fall into liquidation or bankruptcy, it's going to be possible to withdraw them, and then obviously the creditors are going to stay there again. But how much you have not learned from the broker scandals in 2015, you will be out of the wealth of the property of the owner, as well as the lease agreement, the loan agreement, the loan loan, the provision of risk capital or other risk-sharing instruments, the claim against a supported third party, in other words: bond, bail, or, let's say, the changer, so any security that can in itself embody the title and embody the amount, the amount of the debt. Well, that's getting out of it. This is what you learned from the Quaestor case: how to get these assets out so that they can have the appropriate legal background. We will therefore offer you precisely this opposite, and I ask that we be able to discuss those amendments in substance once, and bring those amendments to this House. If they are not entirely perfect for your convenience, then submit an amendment to it, not a motion without debate, and simply be voted off in the committee in which you are being referred. If the only problem is that we filed this, please take it under your name. Someone write the name of the Fidesz people, the government doesn't usually be the author, in this case it's an exception, so I don't want to be unfair, someone should take it in their name, and then we'll be sure to support it if we can expand the assets that can be involved in liquidation or bankruptcy. [[20.20]] And we believe that, in addition to learning from the 2015 winter events, when three major financial service providers collapsed, causing hundreds of billions of forints of damage to tens of thousands of people, which have been in the air since then - to date no one knows where Quaestor's assets are, no one has completed the winding-up proceedings on Buda-Cash's assets, and at DRB, let's say, on the basis of the Bank Accountancy Act, who had a foreign currency loan at DRB, has not managed to settle their loan to this day, because DRB's assets have been included in the winding-up proceedings. This asset was included, but the trustee of Buda-Cash wasn't included, because it had the Opimus stock in it, and I'm just saying it quietly. That's why we say we need to learn from this. On the other hand, it could be concluded that if there are two companies in Hungary, then one has its costs and the other has its revenues. We also believe that the proposal, the two proposals that we have placed on the table, could have a normal national economic objective. One would bring companies together in this regard, and the other would say that anyone who acts fraudulently in this would assist the fraudulently acted owner - because alone, we know the legislation with my fellow Member Pigeon, the owner would not be able to do it, but if someone could help us in this, they would act fraudulently - we would also involve the property of that. The first, please, is to protect the creditor. This bill does not serve this purpose. We will submit the amendments, and I hope that you can support this. So we cannot support this, as you have put it before us, because you have not learned from what many tens of thousands of people have gone through in the past. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-04-19-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-203	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As from the end of 2011, significant steps were taken to renew the insolvency regime, which was developed as part of the Széll Kálmán plan. The main elements of these were to reduce the possibilities of collusion between the debtor and certain groups of creditors in the context of bankruptcy proceedings, to support the operation of the debtor during bankruptcy proceedings, to examine, in addition to formal legal conditions, whether the arrangement does not violate the requirements of good faith law; to make proceedings more transparent in the context of winding-up proceedings, to reduce abuses, to introduce a compulsory winding-up procedure instead of winding-up of homeless or phantomised businesses without legal successors, to sanction business owners and managers who would harm creditors, to renew the profession of insolvency, to improve public supervision and control, to require the compulsory application of an electronic sales system operated by a public body in winding-up proceedings. The results of these legislation have already been shown in recent years, as the number of winding-up proceedings has decreased significantly in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to provide you with rounded data. In 2012, there were 22 700 such cases, 13 500 in 2013, 17 500 in 2014, but only 9700 in 2015, only 7900 in 2016 and 1700 in total until mid-April 2017. Ladies and Gentlemen, Bankruptcy is linked to the competitiveness of our country's economy, as we have heard. One of the key issues of increasing the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is that businesses receive funds from financial institutions on affordable terms. It increases the risk of lending and reduces the willingness of financial institutions to lend if they are able to enforce financial collateral imposed in relation to credit issues related to companies to a significantly limited extent vis-à-vis the defaulted legal entity. Another key issue of the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is that all creditors receive a greater return from legal entities in winding-up proceedings. In view of this, winding-up proceedings should be made even more transparent, even more verifiable, and full collection of the assets of the legal person, as well as legal claims against former directors who harm creditors, should be taken into account if the company's assets have been unlawfully reduced or, in the event of a threat of insolvency, the interests of creditors have not been taken into account. The financial liability rule in this regard is set out in the new Ptk. it contains, but unfortunately, the procedural background to this was not clear in the proceedings relating to winding-up proceedings or forced cancellation proceedings. In view of the above, the present bill also ensures consistency between the laws and makes use of the findings of the Curia's case-law analysis group. Ladies and Gentlemen, As regards the changes affecting the secured creditors, the aim of the bill is to treat the holders of the trusts in rem and fiduciarity as so-called secured creditors in bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. With regard to the protection of liquidation property, the National Competitiveness Council has set out requirements to increase the return on the needs of creditors in the winding-up proceedings. The legislative package on the subject aims to promote this by: The total assets of the debtor of the legal person shall be collected in full and made available to the liquidator. IUU activities, which are detrimental to the interests of the lenders, should be prevented or sanctioned. It is necessary to improve the effectiveness of the lawsuits against companies' managers and business owners acting fraudulently by the injured creditors and the liquidators. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the case-law, Cstv was not uniform. 51. The Curia has therefore set up a case law analysis group. The question of law was that, if the court finds that the liquidation measure is illegal or illegal, who pays the ferryman, who pays the costs of the objector. The bill decides that the court must oblige the appellant in the order assessing the objection, and the appellant must therefore pay the creditor's costs. Only in exceptional cases may the court grant an exemption from this, unless the appellant has acted in a manner which is expected of him in compliance with the professional requirements. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, the administrative burden on courts, notaries will be reduced and, at the same time, the powers of the court secretary will be extended. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[20.30]]
u2017-04-19-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to add new aspects to the debate. I have listened with interest to my fellow Members who have spoken before me, the points raised on the opposition side may also have a basis, but I am made of a completely different aspect, the aspect of winding up proceedings. Although it is true that, in recent times, the Quaestor, Buda-Cash cases have also highlighted a system-wide problem that we do not feel is resolved, but in the case of liquidations, it is old, very old, I have to say that we have faced problems that can be traced back to the beginning of the 1990s, and I have also heard a thousand cases that I have heard about, and which have been a mass of cases beyond the fact that there is only one mistake, error or abuse, that in many cases in the case of liquidations, although obviously not always, in many cases a kind of mafia-level operation has taken place, and this is very long-standing, and they have played through virtually serious company assets, they have made serious corporate assets disappear, or the creditors have played out of it, that these assets have not been shown to have been very well received by creditors. Serious cases, cases in the press, serious scandals were surrounding these processes, otherwise these cases also reached their policies, and in many cases a very serious agreement of interest could be found in the background. The scenario was almost always the same: the liquidation positions had to be acquired, and in many cases the procedure itself was cluttered, so often the appointment was not regular, or companies could function as liquidators for a very long time for which the conditions had ceased or did not exist, so obviously the accomplicity of the courts was involved. I would add that there were judges who were convicted of similar abuses, so there were those who failed, and what God gives in the appointment of the exterminators, obviously this is just the tip of the iceberg, but we could also see the cases where it was impossible to hide it under a bushel. So in many cases, the courts also needed the accomplice of the courts, and they needed companies that knew their business in a negative sense, and if a company in this net, operating at this mafia level, had been included - the "walk-in" would be an exaggeration, since it was not a matter of good intentions to be wound up - but there were cases where companies with serious business assets were wound up, and otherwise everyone could have been satisfied, but it did not happen, but at a price it was a waste of these assets, and it seemed that the policy was to this end, to a lesser or greater extent, up to elbows, to whole or just wrists, but it could have been. I have to say that this is yet to be explored, and I regret that only so few of us are here, but when it comes to such important issues, I have to say that this would be worth it, but the operation of winding up procedures and the liquidation mafia would be worth it to have a very significant investigation of a government pouring clean water into the glass, even though certain cases have passed away, and even though it is not always possible to repair the damage, but at least to know what has happened in this country. Then it was added that, in many cases, my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, would be able to confirm this, and as a practicing lawyer, he also said a number of cases, in which case it was not an abuse, but a systemic one, and many times - and I am sorry that the MSZP is not present - these practices could, in many cases, be linked to the MSZP governments, also in the media. It is regrettable that, in our view, the Fidesz government has not done enough to prevent these cases, or to account for their former economic activities, whether they are socialist or politicians. And that's when it came to the fact that a little bit of a mix-up was made a few years ago in the liquidation market, which you might say was a good time to touch, but that's a lot - how should I put it? - more effectively, and not only should it have been touched as a transfer of a kind of stoki, because we have seen that a significant market of 4 to 5 billion per year has been touched by the transformation of the market, but unfortunately, the suspicion of abuse has been all over this whole transformation in the same way, and it is not a solution to change the personal circle of the perpetrators by virtually a little exaggerating, the real solution would be to create a functioning and transparent system. We read news in the press when the new liquidation register took place, we were talking about the tender announced in February 2014 and the news has already been published in the press and since then, it is difficult to deny that the new liquidation register was not drawn up in accordance with the law and has since won lawsuits in the labour court. I'll add - I'll add! - that, in this case, I would once again stress that it may or may not be possible, and I am sure that, in the case of most of the companies that had been removed from the register, it was justified that they had been removed, although they knew their profession, but in many cases it was abused, and that the enrichment of their own wealth or interests was more important than compliance with the law. So I am not saying that the transformation was not justified, but I would like to explain why it was abusive in this form. So, there was less news, the press obviously gave less news about this than about the traffic contest, but there were a lot of similar elements or even elements that went beyond it, and practically even the application was so that subjective, objective points could be added to the applications, and only 80 out of 170 points could be awarded on the basis of objective arguments, 90 were awarded subjectively, which is a difficult process to control, and 344 companies submitted their documents, of which 130 were included in the register, and they could otherwise do this activity by 2021, since they have to apply for a new tender every seven years. Now, out of the 130 winners, 70 companies were not on the previous list, and this alone would not be the problem, if this had been done in a justified way, as I said, but the new players are remembered, and the media also said that the Fidesz interests were quite strongly present. And I really wouldn't list how and how, for example, like the trade fairs here, though the expertise here is even more likely to be expected than in the operation of a traffic, but for example, a beauty-care company suddenly appeared in the liquidation market, what God gives, and there was also news that out-of-the-box companies were trying to get professionals from newly acquired companies. What God gives to the seven-member committee, which scored, for example, names that were barely linked to politics, such as Miklós Seszták, Bence Rétvári, Kristóf Szatmáry, so they judged those applications and, as I said, the system of subjective scoring actually allowed any aspect to be enforced. So, they're judging, I don't know if the other four names are based on these... - and we can assume how this committee worked out, how this committee could have come together, and according to the press, there were 40 candidates in the last seven places, and there had to be a draw for who would receive them, or who would be included in the register. [[20.40]] And - now hold on, my fellow Members - the losing businesses asked for it, but they could not look at the professional evaluation papers. Thus, the public itself was quite limited, so it was not possible to see by what criteria and who could be included in the register. And to make the situation even better - and the examiners might have suspected that this could be a court case - they sent everyone back their applications after the announcement of the result. So if the court ordered a new application or a re-review of the different scoring criteria, this could not be done because they did not have these applications, they were returned. This has not even happened in the case of trade-offs. So we have to think that back in the day, a few years ago, [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: In the spirit of transparency.]] in the spirit of transparency, this has been well thought out. Not to mention, and let's say a few words about this: if this is not enough, and the government wants to make an exception, then the strategically important trick can also hack winding-up procedures. It should be said that it is a strategically high priority, and in this case the National Reorganization Nonprofit Kft. You can charge it, it's a state company. This, however, could be said to be all right here, but what follows now is the thought-provoking - by the way, we are talking about the amendment of the law in 2011, which introduced this new regulation -: in this case all information may be refused on liquidation proceedings, the property may not be sold in public but in private tenders, and no objections can be lodged against this state liquidation company. So in this case, it's virtually unpredictable and unpredictable who gets the liquidated assets, and it's enough to make a company a priority by making a government decision, and then, I have to say, the possibilities of free robbery are unlimited and not verifiable. So here we are, the winding-up system has thus been made possible, which, under socialist governments, was only an illegal abuse option, unfortunately, it has now been implemented in law under the Orbán governments in many cases. And after that, it is no wonder that we see legislation in this proposal that, unlike what has already been proposed, no company with public debt and tax debt could be included in the list of liquidators - it is okay to say that this is, of course, a difficult need and a legal category - it will now be tried or likely to be amended, since it is not a two-thirds law, if there is a public debt, but if it has been paid in instalments or deferred, then the company that has a public debt may be included in the register. And then, in detail, I suppose you'll pay for the part of the 4-5 billion-dollar market that will certainly be able to pay off these public debts. What God gives, these facilitations will also be introduced into the law after they have, in practice, redistributed this market to Fidesz-near companies. So I thought it was important to say that, unfortunately, there has not been a clearer situation. Of course, you can be glad that there are fewer liquidations on the one hand and the number of Hungarian companies on the other is also decreasing, so there is such a trend. Although I would add that companies know that it is better to avoid liquidation, since in that case they will no longer have any influence on the sale of assets. I have to say that we still have a good and fair system ahead of us, so in parallel with bankruptcy problems or bankruptcy-law problems, liquidation proceedings must also be resolved. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-04-19-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My colleague László Szakács had a few questions, he had a proposal for a group of companies, and he should be involved in a liquidation procedure. I would refer to the fact that the Curia's case-law analysis group has not yet discussed this issue, but, on the basis of what has been said so far, no one has supported this kind of amendment. Instead, the insolvency proceedings were increased in the draft law, and the deadline for that was increased. So the tools are getting stronger. It could also be a misunderstanding, perhaps, on the part of my fellow Member, that the aid instruments should be included in the liquidation assets. But they have not yet been included, since the purpose of these instruments is to recycle from a social point of view. He referred, for example, to the operation of the Jeremie Funds. I think that my fellow Member Staudt has presented the whole area comprehensively and has been very critical about the changes that have taken place in recent years, but these events are clearly seen differently from the opposition side. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I agree.]] I can also point out that, when it comes to priority companies, we do not have to get very far away from reality, just think of the history of Malév or MAL, it does not matter from a national economic point of view that they were wound up in the context of the winding-up procedure of an ad hoc and possibly unprepared liquidator or with the help of a state company with a maximum public interest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-208	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, It follows from the Act V of 2006 on company disclosure, court proceedings and winding-up and from CXL of 2007 on the cross-border merger of capital companies. General debate on the draft law amending the law on the system of interconnection of European business registers until closure. The government referral is T/15052. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-04-19-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In business relations, it is increasingly important for economic operators and consumers to have information about the company they interact with. In Hungary, the state has been providing free company information since 2008, which anyone can learn through the Internet. Business partners are increasingly reporting foreign partners and sales companies with the spread of online purchases and cross-border services, and up-to-date information will also be of greater importance. Recognizing this, the European Union is strongly committed to providing European company information. This bill is intended to transpose Directive 2012/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2012 on the interconnection of national central registers, trade registers and business registers. The aim of the directive is twofold: on the one hand, it ensures that, through a separate EU portal, which will be the existing e-Justice portal, anyone can obtain company information about an EU-based company. On the other hand, the Directive also ensures that, by linking business registers, Member States' registration bodies provide data to each other through the electronic system used for this purpose. The name of this system is Business Registry Interconnection System, i.e. BRIS. The IT and technical preparations needed for the launch of the BRIS system have been intensively underway for several six months at both domestic and EU level, so the bill already takes into account the experience of these discussions and tests. [[20.50]] It can be pointed out that data from limited liability companies, public limited liability companies, European public limited liability companies and branches and commercial agencies established by an undertaking incorporated in a Member State of the European Union will be available in all Member States during the initial period through the EU portal. Accordingly, the bill also contains provisions on these forms of company. The Directive sets out the basic data that Member States should provide to any interested party free of charge through the e-Justice portal. These represent the company's registration number, name and registered office, which makes it possible to verify that the company actually exists. In addition, if any person needs additional data or even company documents as defined in the Directive, they may obtain it without limitation upon payment of reimbursement. Member States also have the possibility to make available additional documents and data which are not listed in the Directive. Dear House, As I have already indicated, the other objective of the BRIS system is to allow the exchange of data between business registers in the Member States. This requires that companies entering the BRIS system receive an identifier which is identical in all Member States of the Union. This is called the EUID implementing act of the Directive. EUID will be automatically generated by the IT system of the company register for Hungarian companies, and the company's obligation to do so will not arise. The Hungarian court of business and the bodies leading each Member State's register should notify each other of the BRIS system when bankruptcy, winding-up proceedings or other compulsory winding-up proceedings are opened in the case of companies, branches with EULD in their register. The other registers concerned will also collect these data through this system. It is important to point out that the EU system, the e-Justice portal, does not store data, so there is no need to actually transfer any company data or company documentation to an EU database for communication between Member States or for the provision of company information. The building system is only a single IT channel, which enables the electronic availability of individual business registers and the electronic request and extraction of data from these business registers. In addition to the provisions allowing for the establishment of the BRIS system, the bill also contains provisions of a slightly more precise nature. Thus, the bill corrects the references in the law on cross-border mergers of capital companies, rationalises the court administration of the relocation of Hungarian companies within the borders, but cross-border. With the amendment, it will be possible for the company court to decide on the application, which has all the necessary information about the company, the company's previous cases, i.e. the company's registered office court. In the future, this court will enter its new registered office in the register and then transfer the company's files to the new registered office. The bill terminates the court-martial review procedure for non-submitting accounting reports. The reason for this is that since 2009, the court has not played a role in depositing or publishing the accounts, so this type of procedure has remained in the company law in a system alien manner. In the event of a failure to submit the report, the National Tax and Customs Office shall exercise full authority and shall be entitled to cancel the company's tax number as a penalty. In addition to the procedure of the NAV, it is unnecessary and unnecessary to start tens of thousands of cases each year in court. Dear House, In addition to the above clarification provisions, the draft law serves primarily legal harmonisation purposes. The importance of the draft law is that it will result in a qualitative improvement in the availability of European company information from this summer on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in making information about cross-border economic events, such as the liquidation of a foreign owner of a domestic company, available quickly and electronically. I therefore ask the honourable Parliament to adopt the bill in agreement with the above provisions and endeavours. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2017-04-19-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Secretary of State has spared me the repetitions that I am going to say, but I only have to say it because a statement is so coherent that we light up his basic fund and the fundamentals of this amendment, so I apologize if I engage in repetitions, but there are some professional points that I have to repeat, because that is the essence of the amendment. The Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports T/15052. I would not like to repeat this, which Mr President presented in a long title. This bill contains amendments to the system of interconnection of European business registers. During 2009-2010, the European Union adopted an EU action package aimed at creating a business-friendly legal and financial environment in order to increase the competitiveness of businesses. In this context, a system for the interconnection of business registers has been established, which, on the basis of the Commission's implementing regulation - as Mr Secretary of State said in the acronym - is called BRIS, Business Registrars Interconnection System. The Directive requires Member States to ensure the interoperability of their registers within the system of interconnection of registers. Access to information from the system of interconnection of registers shall be ensured by the portal and by the points of access established by the Member States in their respective fields of competence. The interconnection system of registers shall be based on a platform operated by the Union. The platform shall provide access to data stored in each Member State's register through the e-Justice portal. The proposal therefore sets out that certain company data should be available on the European e-Justice Portal operated by the European Commission. It is worth mentioning that at EU level it will be possible for individual users to have access to information stored in national registers in relation to companies and their branches opened in other Member States via the EU portal. I believe that this has been indicated by the Secretary of State, the former free company information, and I would like to add this to the systems that have been paid, but the system, such as Opten and other registers, has been made available in an expanded form, because in many cases, when we look for the data of certain companies, we encounter that these are not available and that this hiatus is eliminated by both the European system and the related Hungarian system. The scope of the Directive on the interconnection of business registers covers the limited liability company, the public limited liability company, the European public limited liability company, the branch of the foreign company in Hungary and the commercial representation of the foreign company in Hungary. A range of data will be available free of charge. These are the company's name and legal form, the company's registered office and the company's registration number. Other company data and company documents to be made available according to the directive will be made available for reimbursement. Overall, this Directive is characterised by the purpose of ensuring that Member States' registers are accessed through a common EU platform. This gives the common unit the basis for which information provided by each Member State will be provided. Commission Regulation (EC) No 2015/884 The European unique identifier used for communication between registers, as indicated by the Secretary of State, sets out the detailed rules for the use of the EUID acronym, which is used to identify the members without doubt in the exchange of information between registers, is protected by an appropriate standard. I do not wish to repeat myself, Mr Secretary of State has spoken about rationalising the court-martial of the seat transfer, with a completely rational and life-like clarification of the rules governing the court in this round. Furthermore, I do not want to deal with the issues related to the report nor with the regulation of the seat. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise once again that the proposal for a relevant bill for harmonisation and implementation makes available data that have not yet been available. [[21.00]] In practice, we know what an important interest we have in getting to know the data of companies in EU Member States. This serves competitiveness, and I would like to underline once again this improvement and, on the other hand, that it also serves an important legal certainty aspect, because it is very difficult to put data that are not available on a business basis, so it is very difficult to conclude agreements; and the fundamental interest in company information is to work from an accurate, reliable database not only by people with legal expertise, but also by employees of company managers and relevant connected areas. With these forwards, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, as I indicated, supports the adoption of the bill, and after the debate, I ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-04-19-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Neither do I, which Mr Secretary of State has already said, what are the events or acts that are taking place, since this is a legislative harmonisation procedure. What we need to highlight, and I think that we should always say them as criticism, one is that we never understand why the government works this way, such as Paul Pató, that the final deadline for this rule is 8 June 2017. We're really here, we're always at the end of the line, and for some reason, they always leave it for the last time, otherwise it just doesn't make sense to us. I would also like to make one more critical point, and I would like to suggest to Mr Secretary of State that we do not necessarily agree with the fact that, according to his weight, and what you have also stressed, you and the lead speaker of Fidesz, according to his weight, the detailed rules of these, we believe, should be adopted here in Parliament at a legislative level. There will be agreement, I think. So, professionally, as well as in terms of its implementation, everyone thinks it is welcome, and most of all, we could give the same arguments that we have heard. On the other hand, once again, criticism, this slightly pathetic attitude, and the other, in fact, is that it is not being treated in its place, it is not being treated at the appropriate level of legislation, so we would like to suggest that you reconsider in this respect and change your position. These are the most important rules and detailed rules to be drawn up by law, not at the level of regulation. We believe that if they can come to terms with this and accept our position, then without further ado, this is acceptable either from the point of view of implementation or from a political point of view, and one can even say that it is generously above that it is just astounding that the Ptk adopted four years ago. - still not in a properly harmonised relationship with all the relevant legislation, where it is not necessary to decide which legislation to apply, but each rule points in the same direction. Above these things, of course, it is possible to slip and move away, so to say, generously, we believe that these matters can be dealt with in their place if they are laid down at the appropriate legislative level, not by regulation, but by law. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-04-19-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-04-19-215	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to increase the competitiveness of businesses established in the European Union, to boost the economy and to create a business-friendly legal and financial environment, an EU package of measures was adopted in 2009-10 aimed at linking business registers between Member States. Directive 2012/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 89/666/EEC and Directives 2005/56/EC and 2009/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the interconnection of central registers, commercial registers and company registers set a deadline for the implementation of legal harmonisation tasks on 8 June 2017. The directive is transposed in two stages. CCLII of 2013 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the entry into force of the new Civil Code to the legal harmonisation obligation of 7 July 2014. The law has done enough. The first stage of transposition has therefore been implemented as far as possible by the deadline, and transposition legislation has also been notified to the Commission. So the suggestion that our fellow Member from Szakács, Mr László MSZP, has just said is not correct. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Directive requires Member States to ensure the interoperability of their registers within the system of interconnection of registers. Access to information from the system of interconnection of registers shall be ensured by the portal and by the points of access established by the Member States in their respective fields of competence. The interconnection system of registers shall be based on a platform operated by the Union. The platform shall provide access to data stored in each Member State's register via the e-Justice website. At EU level, it will be possible for individual users to have access to information held in national registers in relation to companies and their branches open in other Member States via the EU portal. The Directive is not intended to establish a central database of records containing meaningful information about companies, but to ensure that Member States' registers have access to each other's databases and provide data to each other through a common EU platform. It is important to point out that the Directive does not oblige Member States to change their internal registration systems. The EU package of measures for the interconnection of business registers will be implemented in the framework of the BRIS project. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition to the above, the bill rationalises the court administration of the relocation of companies. The amendment adapts the transfer of seat across counties to the possibilities of electronic administration and ensures that there is no dependence. In the future, the registered corporate court, which is to be cancelled, will decide on the request for a change of seat and register its new seat. This will avoid any unnecessary transfer of cases prior to the examination of the application. The bill also repeals the court-martial law enforcement procedure for the non-submitting of accounting reports, because the system remained in the Ctv. in a foreign way and represents tens of thousands of unnecessary cases every year. The National Tax and Customs Office has all the necessary powers and has the right to delete the tax number of the failing company. After the tax cancellation, the company court can take appropriate action for the termination of the company and for the forced cancellation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the bill on the basis of the above. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[21.10]]
u2017-04-19-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have criticised the legislative amendments in which electronic administration is expanding in Hungary several times. Obviously, not because the expansion itself is bad or problematic, but the problems involved are not adequately solved at many levels. This causes many problems in Hungary, both with lawyers and judges and with the population. I think that there is obviously a need to move forward with age, and compared to 15 years ago, when administration in court, in public administration, was purely paper-based, we can talk about huge progress. There are a lot of things that can be done electronically, and obviously this is the future. So when we talk about this expanding, it should be theoretically positive, but it also has to be taken into account that both in court and in lawyers and in private individuals are causing a lot of problems, and it is very often in its infancy that this is uniformly organised in Hungary. This often means extra work in the courts, extra work for lawyers and private individuals. So these are the problems that make it difficult, but to say that there is no need to extend the electronic procedure would be highly irresponsible. In this case, too, we believe that this is necessary. Why? The Secretary of State began by saying how significant it was when the free opportunity was introduced in Hungary to gain insight into the register of companies by lawyers, private individuals, the details of the company register, and this is very important. Because of legal certainty, business security, it is very, very important for people to know whether the company with whom I want to do business exists, whether it is indeed its managing director, whether the person is indeed entitled to sign contracts, to conclude contracts that the company has not been declared bankrupt, winding up proceedings, has not been declared terminated by the court, has not been suspended. So there are countless things to know. You can't expect every person to go to a corporate court because, in some cases, in many counties, the court is 100 kilometers away from the locality, and it would take a day to get there by bus and train, not to mention the extra costs. So it is very good that the Hungarian State has implemented this, and since 2008 these data have been available in Hungary, all your company data can be accessed in a public register, and anyone can see this. Yeah, when you hit the search engine, you have it in no time, you know everything about the company in a minute, it's a huge achievement. I think that these are the most important results of the electronic procedure, when we quickly, simply, receive the information that we need, where appropriate, available to everyone. Indeed, we are talking about an EU directive which requires that, just as this has been fully built up in Hungary almost ten years ago, it should not only apply to Hungary, but not only in Hungary, but also in all the Member States of the European Union. Why is that necessary? Because it is quite clear that with the creation of the European Union and Hungary's entry into the European Union, our business relations have become more versatile, cooperation and contracting between Hungarian and EU companies are very common. It follows that it is important for Hungarian citizens to be aware that if they want to conclude a contract with a foreign company, whether that company exists at all. Or a company registered in France, Spain, obviously wants to know if the company actually exists in Hungary, whether it is registered or not, if it really operates in such a form of company. This is what the EU Directive says, that this should be given the opportunity to learn about it. Access to this system provides a high level of legal certainty and business security. We see that from 8 June 2017 this system must be built up throughout the European Union. This means, as many have already said, that the BRIS system, this system of interconnection of business registers, allows citizens of the Member States to look into company data among themselves. On this basis, everyone will receive an EU ID, called EUID, which will prove that this company is a company registered in the European Union, and based on this EUID, everyone will look into that company immediately. It is very important that certain information can be obtained free of charge. This is whether the company exists, what is its business name, what is its business form, what is the company's headquarters, or if it is not the place of central administration, then it is the place of central administration. These are the basic information that will be available to everyone and will be available free of charge. The additional company information, or even what his budget report was, his accounting report to the company, will be available for proper remuneration. Obviously, it would be appropriate for everyone to have free access to the company data in the same way as in Hungary. This would be appropriate in Europe, which would greatly facilitate access to such information, but where such decisions are included in the Directive, they should be taken into account. Let us hope that these costs will not be high. It is decided that this should not be more than the actual cost incurred. So I think that this BRIS system, the introduction of EUID, will in any case also strengthen legal certainty and business security in Hungary. And the e-Justice portal will be a very important portal, the essence of which is that they do not load the data into a central, say, Brussels registry, but it only makes the register of the court-martials interoperable between the Member States. It is also very important that the court-martials will also have access to this register. Company courts will have free access to the register and the data provided there, especially if a foreign company has a branch in Hungary, it will obviously receive it if the parent company is subject to winding-up proceedings or bankruptcy proceedings. Otherwise, this should have been launched by this company in Hungary in a change application procedure, which it will either comply with or not, obviously has 30 days left. In this way, the court will immediately notify the Hungarian court of business through this system that the bankruptcy, winding-up proceedings have been initiated, and the Hungarian business partner will be able to obtain up-to-date information, and the court will also provide such information. There is also a part of this bill, which does not apply to this, which introduces a completely different paragraph, which does not apply to this registration system, but actually amends Act V of 2006 with regard to the transfer of seat. I think that this legislative amendment will indeed increase legal certainty, because if, for example, a company is already subject to a judicial supervision procedure, for example, or before, a request for a change in the register, and in the meantime, it will make an amendment to a change of seat later on, then the court who has dealt with the company's affairs in full. So he also decides whether the change of seat is lawful or not, whether it can be transferred or not. So you can agree with this, but there is a problem with this, which is that this is a legal conflict with a part of the law, which states that the corporate court of residence is acting on all matters. However, since it is declarative and not constitutive, when the company announces the change of seat, it should automatically, under the general rules, act as a court of business competent under its new registered office, but this section describes the principle of registration. I think it would be good if we also amended the base section, and I will make an amendment on this issue tomorrow, the essence of which is to introduce an exception to Act V of 2006 35. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. And that's 35. In paragraph 6 of this amendment, the wording should be inserted that in all cases, the firm's registered office should be subject to a competent court, with the exception of Article 6 of this amendment. the case referred to in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. So I think that that's when we're gonna tie this up, and that's when we're gonna take this bill to the satisfaction of the law. [[21.20]] It is clear from the proposal that it will in any way strengthen legal certainty and the security of business relations in Hungary. In addition to the provisions of Section 3. On this basis, I believe that this bill is forward-looking and eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they would like to ask for further comments under the item on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-04-19-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow cook had a question as to why this kind of codification had only just taken place. It is clear that this transposition of the directive has not only a legislative but also a technical background, and last autumn Member States reached the point of agreeing on technical solutions and programmes to enable the flow of information. In practice, only then could we establish the legislative framework with which we have just come before this House. The other point was why not all the elements of the regulation appear at the statutory level. All elements of the Directive are published at a legal level. Technical details that are currently regulated at the level of regulation, such as the establishment of the registration number or the rate of reimbursement, which varies, as it must be adapted to the current costs, change. I also tell my colleague Csaba S Gyüre that, of course, the costs within the BRIS system cannot exceed the fees that arise. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-220	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters will follow. The government referral is T/15055. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2017-04-19-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to publish the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. The purpose of the Convention is to establish a legal framework for judicial assistance in criminal matters between Hungary and Vietnam. In the Convention, Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam undertake to provide each other with legal aid in criminal matters in the event of such a request. The Convention sets out the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing assistance, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for assistance, the content and the mandatory annexes to the request for assistance, and includes cost-bearing and data protection rules. It is necessary to publish the Convention by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. Issues not covered by the Convention shall be governed by the provisions of the Law on Legal Assistance in International Criminal Matters. The Convention shall enter into force only if the provisions of the Convention are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. Dear Parliament, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-04-19-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the publication of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between Hungary and Vietnam. On the basis of the growing economic and legal relations between Hungary and Vietnam, it is considered appropriate to conclude a new legal aid agreement in criminal matters as a replacement of the previous contract. The application of the Convention will make it easier and more effective for the two countries to implement judicial assistance in criminal matters and will help to combat international crime more effectively. We support the main objectives of the Convention, namely the need to maintain and further strengthen the growing economic and legal relationship between the two countries in order to develop more effective cooperation in law enforcement, investigations, prosecutions, particularly in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. We have examined and concluded that this Convention is in line with the provisions of the Treaty on Civil, Family and Criminal Legal Assistance, signed in Hanoi on 18 January 1985. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group also supports the broad assistance of the two countries in criminal matters in the framework of the treaty, including the summoning of witnesses, victims, experts, the acquisition of evidence and statements, the temporary transfer of convicted persons, the taking of measures to seek, find, deter, freeze, seize and confiscate proceeds of crime and the means used in the commission. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the publication of the Convention because it makes it simpler and more effective to carry out judicial assistance in criminal matters between the two countries and helps to combat international crime even more effectively. On this basis, we propose the bill to Parliament for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-224	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2017-04-19-225	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I was surprised that it was my turn, because on the basis of the list, my fellow MSZP member would have come, but it doesn't seem to be here. [[Attila Mesterházy arrives in the Chamber.]]
u2017-04-19-226	You have the floor, Congressman; we will solve this problem, we will bridge it, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-227	The Treaty between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on Civil, Family and Criminal Legal Assistance, published by Decree-Law No 8 of 1986, signed in Hanoi on 18 January 1985, governs the procedure for legal assistance in criminal matters, extradition and transfer of sentenced persons. In 2013, the Vietnamese Ministry of Justice proposed the creation of a new agreement on civil and criminal legal assistance, due to legislative changes in their country. The Vietnamese party has thus initiated the conclusion of separate conventions on civil assistance, legal aid in criminal matters, extradition and transfer of sentenced persons, as this would allow for more detailed and appropriate regulation of certain forms of legal assistance. The text of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters was established by experts from both countries during the visit of the Vietnamese expert delegation to Budapest between 26 and 28 January 2015. The draft text was signed by both parties, i.e. initialled on 28 January 2015. For the final conclusion of the text of the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the Hungarian Gazette, issue 54 of 2015 1244/2015. a government decision has given me the authority. The Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters was signed on 16 March 2016 in Hanoi. The aim of the Convention is to regulate the movement of legal aid in criminal matters between Hungary and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, which will make it easier and more effective to carry out judicial assistance in criminal matters between the two countries and to promote more effective action against international crime. The Convention sets out the content and form of requests for assistance, lists the reasons for refusal of an application and sets out the central authorities. The Convention includes specific rules on certain forms of legal aid, data protection provisions, rules on cost-sharing, representation and dispute resolution, and also provides for relations with other international treaties. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP faction supports the bill, please support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-04-19-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-04-19-229	Thank you, Mr President and Honourable House, for the flexibility of the exchange. As my fellow Member said, I would not want to get into the details more precisely, since he described exactly what this convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters is about. In our view, the articles of this convention comply with a modern legal aid agreement in criminal matters. So, in this sense, it fully fits into the set of internationally agreed provisions. [[21.30]] We believe that the conclusion of such a convention will in any way make criminal cooperation between the two countries simpler and more effective and will also help to combat international crime more effectively. So, if it wasn't for anything else, that's why the publication of this convention would make sense. In addition, I think that the conclusion of such a convention is beneficial not only from a criminal or legal point of view, but also from an economic or political point of view. After all, the more common agreements connect two countries, the stronger the links between these countries. For Hungary, Vietnam is certainly also an economic destination, so it is important to strengthen our political relations, it is important to strengthen our various professional relationships and thus to create new opportunities for Hungarian entrepreneurs as well. This is certainly of paramount importance from a diplomatic and economic point of view. It is therefore very clear from these grounds that the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the publication of this law. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-04-19-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a proposal before us that, I think, is not the most important, but in some respects is very important. The parliamentary approval of the treaties with Vietnam is now on the agenda, as the Parliament discussed the draft law on transit two weeks ago, and we have already expressed our opinion on extradition. We have explained how important relations between Vietnam and Hungary are, since Vietnam is an emerging country, an extremely dynamic country. If we only talk about how its population developed, it had only 35 million inhabitants in 1960, it already doubled its population in 90, and it had 95 million inhabitants in 2016. So since 1960, Vietnam's population has tripled three times in 50-55 years and has become a country with a serious population. However, GDP development is an equally important issue. We have just had a discussion here in Parliament on how important it would be for Hungary's GDP growth to be above 4 per cent per year, and that the point is not to say 4 per cent this year, but to keep it going over 4 per cent per year, which means that the Hungarian economy will grow this dynamically for up to 5-6-8 years. Why am I telling you this? Because then we could take a sample of Vietnam in this respect, although it should be noted that the Vietnamese economy started from a very low level of GDP. But if we look at the development of GDP, we can see that from 1990 to 8 years, GDP growth in this country was 8 per cent per year, and after 2000 we can always talk about 7 per cent GDP growth. This means that for more than a decade and a half, GDP growth of 7-8 percent was achieved, which meant that it became one of the most dynamic developing countries in the region, and they started to mention it among the small tigers. If we look at Vietnam's political arrangement, we can see that this country is quite interesting, since it is more like China, because, as in the title, it is about the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. So it's about a socialist country that has preserved its one-party arrangement. However, as in China, it is open to the economy, and obviously the government and the Vietnamese Communist Party are having such a relationship that, in general, the one-party system has a very strong impact on the government's activities, and there are very serious overlaps between the government and the party's leadership. Nevertheless, Vietnam was able to achieve a very serious economic development in this system. So, as I said, it was 8 percent and 7 percent for a decade and a half, which is very serious. When we talk about this, it is important to see that economic relations with such a country, such a dynamically developing country, and relations in all forms must be supported. That is why the Jobbik Movement for Hungary supported the signing of the mutual agreement on mutual assistance in criminal matters in connection with transit and extradition. So the bill that's in front of us right now. I don't want to go over what's in this bill, but I'd like to give you a thought or two about it. What does this provision of legal aid mean, how do we provide legal aid to each other? Service of documents, summoning witnesses, victims, experts, obtaining evidence, obtaining statements, offering of criminal proceedings, information on seizure, confiscation, sending of documents. So it's very diverse, what's in criminal aid. Who will be involved in this? Obviously, in Hungary, the Minister for Justice and, in this case, the Attorney General are also usually involved in such matters concerning legal aid, extradition and transit. In Vietnam, the Vietnam People's Chief Prosecutor will be the partner. What I think, while we are talking about here, I would raise so many problems about this, that I know from my own experience as a lawyer that when I had to cooperate with a foreign state on the basis of legal aid agreements in criminal matters and whether to obtain documents or deliver subpoenas, it was very, very difficult and very slow. In such cases, the court had to set the time limit for six months, one year, and the whole case stood. I am very confident that, in today's system and in the previous agenda, these legal aid agreements will work much more smoothly in the future, taking a much shorter time. Then I think that it will benefit everyone when we conclude these conventions and accept them by Parliament. However, the Jobbik faction supports this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Tibor Bana applauds.]]
u2017-04-19-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the proposed legislation on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the draft law on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council will follow. Government referrals T/15063. and T/15064. are available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposals will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Hornung, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Madam Secretary, please. [[21.40]]
u2017-04-19-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, After the consolidation following the financial and economic crisis, efforts have been strengthened worldwide to reduce income and wealth from crime. This will focus on making measures that make it more efficient to clean illegal incomes. Moreover, international terrorism, in particular the strengthening of the Islamic State's activities, should make the financing opportunities of terrorist organisations even more stringent. Therefore, in order to strengthen the domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime and to ensure full compliance with international standards, the government submitted two legislative proposals to Parliament. The new bill on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing has been drawn up for a number of key objectives. The first and most important thing is that the bill complies with Hungary's legal harmonisation and international obligations in the European Union. It ensures the transposition of the European Union's new anti-money laundering directive into domestic law and also implements the recommendations of the European Council's competent anti-money laundering committee, Moneyval, to strengthen the country's anti-money laundering system. On the other hand, the practical experience gained so far in Hungary has been incorporated into the proposed legislation to modernise regulation. According to the bill, the obligations of service providers and authorities remain essentially the same as those of the current anti-money laundering law. At the same time, it is an important change that the bill is based, in particular, on a risk-based approach. It requires supervisory authorities and service providers to define and assess the risks of money laundering in their territory in a comprehensive manner and to establish a proportionate internal system of procedures for dealing with risks. This gives supervisory bodies and service providers more room for manoeuvre to take account of professional characteristics, weighting risks and efficient use of resources, while increasing their responsibilities in this area. It is also a significant change that, in line with international practice, the bill also allows operators to identify on-line in a safe and credible manner. This is conditional on the identification procedure being equivalent to personal identification in terms of the rigour of anti-money laundering and terrorist financing. The scope of the bill is essentially the same as that of the current anti-money laundering law. The economic operators who are exposed to the use of their services to legitimise criminal property by money laundering or to support terrorism by money. At the same time, it is a change that, in order to strengthen the fight against money laundering, the bill, in accordance with the European Union Directive, includes all dealers who accept cash payments over HUF 2.5 million. It also covers all non-business trusts and expands its scope for certain gambling operators. The draft new Money Laundering Act complements and clarifies the customer due diligence obligation, in particular with regard to the definition and treatment of cases requiring simplified and increased customer due diligence based on the risks of the client and the product. In this respect, greater emphasis will be placed on the discretion of supervisory authorities and service providers on the basis of individual risks. The introduction of provisions on the central register of beneficial owners' data and access to data will help improve the transparency of legal persons. This central register is expected to start operating in 2019 following the conclusion of ongoing EU legislation. In order to ensure more effective implementation, the bill sets out more detailed provisions in the event of money laundering or signs of terrorist financing, as regards the fulfilment of the obligation to notify service providers and the functioning of the analytical financial information unit receiving notifications. It is also an important objective to strengthen domestic and international cooperation between the authorities involved in the fight against money laundering. In addition, the bill standardises and strengthens the sanctions to be applied by supervisory bodies in the event of non-compliance with obligations, in particular as regards the amount of the fine. Honourable Members, The other law is a bill on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council, which ensures better implementation of EU and UN obligations in this field and facilitates the application of practical law. With the bill, the effectiveness of the anti-terrorism and terrorist financing system can be greatly increased in line with international expectations, and it will be more effective than so far to prevent terrorists, supporters or other persons and organisations threatening international security from having access to their own assets, economic resources or contributions from other persons. The existing obligations for the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures remain on the ground, and the bill intends to maintain a well-functioning framework. The regulation to be developed builds to a large extent on the existing anti-money laundering toolbox and institutional system that is to be strengthened by these proposals, taking into account the identity of the subject and institutional structure concerned. Dear House, Overall, with the adoption of the legislative proposals, Hungary will significantly improve the system against domestic money laundering and terrorist financing, which has already worked well, as well as its effectiveness, transparency and functionality. In addition, it fulfils its EU and international obligations to demonstrate Hungary's unbroken commitment to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Modern regulation and effective enforcement will continue to aim at making it difficult and, where possible, preventing criminals from laundering money from economic crime. It is important that it defends the domestic financial system and the fair majority society more strongly than ever, as well as to support our international cooperation against money laundering and to strengthen international action against terrorist financing. I ask you to support and accept the proposals submitted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-04-19-234	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the speech will be held by the lead speaker in a 30-30-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Vantara, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We are now faced with two very extensive legislative proposals, whose joint general debate is justified by their close interrelationship. The draft new law implementing financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council is directly linked to the draft law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The government has always been committed to combating money laundering and terrorist financing and has consistently sought to whiten the economy. The measures taken earlier to this end are also in line with these two current draft laws. The truth is that, following the financial crisis in 2008, efforts to curb income and wealth from crime have been strengthened worldwide, including in the European Union, and to strengthen measures to make it more difficult to wash them clean. As stated in Mrs Secretary of State's exposé, international terrorism... and here we must primarily think about intensifying the activities of the Islamic State, further tightening the funding opportunities of terrorist organisations. The first proposal, the bill on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, serves to remove certain but already repealed European Union directives on money laundering and to transpose the new directive published on 5 June 2015 into Hungarian law. [[21.50]] The objective of the updated and improved Directive is to strengthen the EU's anti-money laundering and terrorist financing protection system, thereby ensuring more effective prevention of the use of EU financial systems for money laundering and terrorist financing. According to the bill, the obligations of service providers and authorities remain essentially the same as those of the current anti-money laundering Act, but it is an important element of the current amendment that it is strongly based on the risk-based approach. As has been said in Mrs State Secretary's exposé, the new bill requires supervisory authorities and service providers to define and assess comprehensively the risks of money laundering in their territory and to establish an internal system of procedures capable of managing them in proportion to the risks. This gives supervisory bodies and service providers more room for manoeuvre to take account of professional features and to weighting risks, while increasing their responsibilities in this area. As has been said, there will be a further substantial change that, in line with international practice, the bill allows legal service providers subject to the law to ensure safe and credible online, without personal appearance, but also in a comprehensive manner, under appropriate conditions, in addition to the strict preservation of effective action against money laundering and terrorist financing. The second bill on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the United Nations Security Council aims at the creation of a ban on the provision of funds or economic resources, for certain natural and legal persons and for other groups and entities in the United Nations Security Council and the restrictive measures imposed by the EU because of terrorism or political activities incompatible with democratic core values. The 2007 CLXXX on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the related amendment of certain laws. In the light of the practical experience of law enforcement in recent years and the findings and recommendations of the country inquiry conducted in 2015-16, it is necessary to review the promotion of the domestic enforceability of financial and financial restrictive measures in order to facilitate the application of practical law. In order to ensure consistency between international law and domestic law, it is necessary to draw up legislation providing for procedural and enforcement provisions to ensure the domestic enforceability of UN Security Council resolutions. Ladies and gentlemen, The creation of a new law will make a major contribution to the protection of the financial system, to the clean-up of proceeds from crime and to attempts to support terrorist organisations' financial support, so I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-04-19-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the Group of the KDNP... - sorry, I apologize, Congressman. Unfortunately, there was no Member in my script, but if you want to speak as the lead speaker of the MSZP, you have the floor. I ask for your understanding, Congressman. Thank you. Here you go.
u2017-04-19-237	Thank you very much, Mr President, also for the flexibility. As the Secretary of State has said, and my fellow Member has already spoken about it, I think that this has become a very important topic in recent times, since terrorism is a daily phenomenon, and almost every country has experience, experience, or at least news that indicates different tragic events. It is therefore increasingly important to make the various methods of combating terrorism more effective. And they say that terrorism can, and should, be fought in two ways. One is when they fight with military means against terrorists, but at least as effective a method is when they want to cut their resources. In fact, I would say that it is certainly more humane and even more effective if the funding and resources of the various terrorist organisations are tried to be impossible, cut off by those who oppose them. So this is, in any case, an important proposal, an important directive. May I address so many criticisms to Mrs Secretary of State that the government has waited relatively long to put this directive into practice, since, as my fellow Member said, the law itself was published on 5 June 2015 and entered into force on 26 June 2015 and now it is almost two years to put this into effect in Hungary. We will not miss the deadline, I mean the EU deadline, but perhaps we could have done so a little sooner, faster. There is only one question concerning the law on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing which raises at least one question. This is an exemption because Member States have the possibility to grant exemptions for low-risk service providers. You're talking about a proven low risk. It would be worth clarifying, at least for me it is not clear from this bill exactly what a proven low risk is. We are talking about different providers where it is worth paying attention to what we consider to be such a low-risk provider. With regard to the other bill, as my colleague Fidesz said, these are two proposals that are closely linked, so it is right to negotiate together, and I would like to draw attention here to only one question or point, because much has already been said, this is the possibility of redress. That wasn't in the previous regulations, was it? Now you're going to bring this up with the author. I would only draw attention here, and I would not want to be party politics now, but if, from the point of view of redress, it is possible to prove that I am not the person against whom I should have ordered the freezing of property or the ban on the availability of resources, it is all right, but we only had a Pharaon businessman who turned out to be a bad person, who was wanted by the FBI, but in Hungary made business investments. And once again, I wouldn't want to talk about it right now, but as an opportunity I would suggest that, then, in some way, this practice should be developed, how can someone, say Jordan or Saudi Arabia, verify that he doesn't finance terrorists, doesn't have connections with different cells like this. And if I have accurate information, then at least this proposal also did not reveal how a remedy system works in another EU country, so I couldn't compare what the national might think. Nevertheless, from these two issues, which I am at least not clear on the basis of a review of the law, I think, apart from that, that both proposals are proposals that serve Hungary's national interests and the interests of national security. It is important for Hungary to support and implement EU standards on these issues. So in this sense, the MSZP Group will support the adoption of these two proposals in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[22.00]]
u2017-04-19-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, whose understanding I thank. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-239	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/15063 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The basic objective of the bill is to prevent and prevent the laundering of money or items of monetary value resulting from the commission of criminal acts through activities at risk of money laundering, and to support terrorism with something of value that can be expressed in money or money, in order to effectively enforce the ban on money laundering and terrorist financing. T/15064 on the implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council. The basic objective of the bill is to lay down procedural rules to ensure the proper implementation of the financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the EU and the UN Security Council. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's see, T/15063. What are the reasons for the submission of the bill? There were three things that made it necessary. One was the publication in the Official Journal of the European Union on 5 June 2015 of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of financial systems for money laundering and terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2015/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC 2015/849. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with these Directives, should enter into force by 26 June 2017. The Council of Europe's Committee of Experts on Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing, called Moneyval, conducted a fifth round review of Hungary's legislative and institutional system against money laundering and terrorist financing during 2015 and 16; this is the second condition. The investigation was concluded in September 2016 and Hungary is required to report on progress with Money at its December 2017 plenary session on the basis of the ratings set out in the adopted country report. In order to make anti-money laundering and terrorist financing more effective, it is of the utmost importance to implement the forward-looking recommendations set out in the Moneyval country report to help improve technical compliance and efficiency. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the bill has now been tabled, this is my answer to my fellow Member Mr Attila Mesterházy's question in time. The third reason is the 2007 CXXXVI on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. the practical experience of the period since the entry into force of law and the review and amendment of the laws and related legislation which have become necessary on the basis thereof. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/15064. In addition to the general trade embargoes vis-à-vis individual countries, the practice of adopting so-called targeted sanctions has spread since the early 1990s, which only impose sanctions directly on persons or organisations responsible for acts threatening international peace and security or otherwise in breach of international law. This includes restrictive measures against terrorism and terrorist financing. The European Union shall decide on the imposition of restrictive measures within the framework of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, with a view to implementing those UNSCR Resolutions at Union level, and on the one hand, in an autonomous manner, to enforce the Union's foreign policy. Where restrictive measures imposed by the Union specifically cover matters falling within Union competence, including in the case of financial and financial restrictive measures, the Council shall adopt a regulation directly applicable and directly applicable in the Member States in accordance with Articles 75 or 215 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Domestic implementation of financial and financial restrictive measures imposed and directly applicable by the EU was already established in 2007 by CLXXX of 2007 on the implementation of the necessary procedural rules, the financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the amendment of certain related laws. Law. The re-codification of the system set up in 2007 is justified by the extension of the existing framework to implement the financial and financial restrictive measures contained in UNSCR Resolutions. UN Security Council resolutions are binding on all UN members, but so far there has been no formal establishment of a regime similar to that for the implementation of restrictive measures imposed by the EU. Ladies and Gentlemen, The parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports both legislative proposals, please support them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-04-19-240	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-241	Mr President, Dear House, After 10:00 p.m., there is a very different acoustics to such an EU directive, regulation or anything else, and, by the way, to complement it with local rules, let us say, a debate, although I feel that there is much less room for debate in this motion than the government has put on the table in recent years on migration issues. I myself am always critical of the various regulations of the dying, dying European Union, and their implementation process does not usually bring results. What Europe has done in the context of migration has earned an indicator of what it is doing to prevent terrorism, and I do not want to say it badly, but I think we can all classify it as a laughing stock here. Obviously, however, everything that this crackling and crumbling machine allows me to do must be done, but I also see its place and feel that Hungary does not save any thought on its own roads. To give you two examples, positive and negative: the negative is clearly that, in the midst of the migration flood - Madam Secretary, I am interested in your personal opinion on this - I was quite confused about the fact that, while turning the Keleti Railway Station into a railway station in the Middle East, our motorways were occupied by the masses whose behaviour if we had imitated, say, opposition and pro-government representatives here, then we would have ended up in prison in an obvious way. At the same time, everyone knew that a good part of the arrivals would receive very serious euro bundles through one of the financial intermediaries, either by announcing a password or by handing over a paper, and I am confused that the entire Hungarian consumer protection system was unable to trace this, the intervention, no submission from the government was made on the subject. We bombed this through alternative media tools and in a lot of places, but the fact that, through various money agencies, suspected terrorists could take on very serious amounts in Hungary, that is in the realm of reality, so this is not a regulation, it is not a directive, it is not an implementation, this is what happened in Hungary. And the other example - of course, it is very important to track down the transactions of suspected terrorists, but -: in connection with the construction of the so-called settlement bond, there are intermediaries and offshore companies on your part, on the part of their good friends and business partners, whose background I would like to see very much, and there are a lot of them doing so. It is no coincidence that there is now about an implementation of the committee responsible to release the data which would otherwise be made public. [[22.10]] But in order not to go too far away from the specific topic and the two interrelated legislative proposals put down, we consider both of them to be eligible for support, in addition to drawing attention to the need for much more. So a regulation, the introduction of a directive into the Hungarian legal order, was indeed a little late - this criticism was justified to the government - does not give rise to a strong force, especially because, if we look at the events of recent years, a total of 8786 notifications were made to the NAV Anti-Money Laundering Office last year on the financing of money laundering or money laundering by companies, organisations, individuals. Most reports were made by banks and financial institutions, which automatically send reports about such cases. And what we see is that we have a system that works, this system that works can freeze accounts, deny transactions. And in addition to shifting the different limits, I feel that it is much more important to focus on how to filter out those typical transactions and habits even more effectively, which have led to the removal of suspicious transactions. Typically, according to the reports, a regular transfer of funds to a company's account is almost immediately a lump sum. It can also be said that it is also suspicious if a company's account does not include costs linked to a realistic operation and related expenditure. So we have a system that works, which, if not sufficiently sophisticated, is familiar with basic cases, cases that may be suspected of terrorist or terrorist financing in the background. And we also see that although it may be suspicious in itself that a private individual always withdraws money from a company's account almost at the same time as income, it is not behind all such cases that the intention to finance terrorism is not behind it. In any case, further refining this system would, in my view, lead to far greater results than magic with different limits, since it will not be up to limits to whether or not to finance shady business and dubious business. I would therefore urge you, in addition to the delayed transposition of this directive, to think about solutions that can be considered in your own national competence, especially those raised in the context of migration, to address them for at least one thought experiment, since they have already been done in Hungary, and to say to God that we should not be in a position to be in a mass situation again. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-04-19-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I'll be very brief, I won't abuse your patience. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, asked the question as regards low-risk service providers, who decides who they are and what parameters they are based on. I would also have a proposal and, of course, we will also present this proposal as an amendment. So that this can be tracked at some level and can be followed by the public, we will therefore suggest to the government - and I ask you to consider this - that the list of low-risk service providers, i.e. those who are effective at some level, should be available to everyone, whether on the internet or on an access interface, where you can see who, which organisations, which service providers, this could mean anything, so that from the trader through the financial service provider, it can be placed on a publicly available surface, and I believe that this is sufficient, so the public's strength can be sufficient to regulate it properly and, on the one hand, to follow the movement of these funds properly. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2017-04-19-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2017-04-19-245	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to take a specific question as to whether I understand, understand and support the fact that, in the case of a cash flow of 2.5 million, anyone involved can automatically draw attention to a suspicious transaction. We're talking about the subject matter of when the service provider is required to scan the client. However, there is another indication that there is a need for an explanation as to why a 300,000 reference may be necessary. This amount is included here at the time of the execution of the transaction order, which is defined as a specified transfer order in Article 3 (9) of the Regulation, and it is completely incomprehensible, since there was neither a similar amount nor a reference to it in the original agreement. Therefore, in setting this limit, it is very important to draw attention to the need to explain, in respect of a reference amount of 300,000, why this may already be suspicious, why it may already be examined. We may have a larger amount of reference here, but we should definitely know what it is. And once again, I would like to point out that the mechanism should be refined, so not to raise or magicate the limits, but to refine and develop the methodology for the elimination of typically suspicious transactions. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2017-04-19-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There have been a few questions that I would like to respond to and a proposal that we would like to thank our fellow Members, and I hope that my answer will be satisfactory. The first question is the deadline. It has been said on several occasions, and Mr President has also said why the proposal is being transposed now. We are now transposing the proposal because we have waited for the results of the Moneyval study to be able to establish a single, coherent regulation, so that both the directive and the Moneyval recommendations are consolidated, taking into account domestic experience, and we have therefore presented this bill in the spring 2017 parliamentary period. The second question relates to a proven low risk. We agree that these must be addressed, and these detailed rules will be included in lower-level legislation and supervisory guidelines. Here a differentiation will be made for low and high risk factors, these will be identified and recommendations will be made, and measures will be proposed to address high risk factors. So we will be able to meet the question or demand that this be available to everyone. The appeal was also raised as a question. Under the law, there is an appeal only if it is found that the person who has been sanctioned is not the same as the person on the ban list. This is also clarified in the proposal, so this settles the issue in this respect. Other opinions, comments and questions that do not fit in with the bill have been submitted. I just want to respond to this migratory pressure. There are supervisory authorities, both the supervisory body of the National Bank and the tax authority, which monitored these transactions. I think that these organisations have properly performed the task, drew attention to the risks, so I would like to end this issue. The NGM's competence is no longer covered by this issue. Thank you very much for your contributions from all sides, and I trust that you will be able to support this proposal as you have said. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz and KDNP.]] [[22.20]]
u2017-04-19-248	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-04-19-249	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, LMP is a consistent opposition to the restructuring and nationalisation of the chimney sweep service from the outset. At first, we mostly protested on a principled, theoretical basis, but now, with experience, we can say that we have made our excuses earlier for a reason. From the very first moment, it is clear that restructuring involves the massive unsatisfaction of small and medium-sized enterprises, municipal companies, and that they have done the work that has now been taken up by state disaster management. It was also foreseen that there would be a lot of incompetence problems while skilled and skilled chimney sweepers became unemployed for hundreds of years. There were not enough prepared workers in the chain of disaster protection today, trained workers in crash training courses and redirected public workers, we think it is very risky to give a key role in such a field of increased safety of life and property. The numbers are stubborn, and the fact that housing fires and carbon monoxide poisoning due to clogged chimneys have increased over the past heating season makes it difficult to defend the market penetration called reform. The Orbán government tried to sell the public takeover of the chimney sweep service by using the password of free-of-charge, and, no doubt, the control of the chimneys has become seemingly free for families, in certain circles and under certain conditions, because the essence is also in the fine print section, which the state saves on household payments, it beats down several times on businesses, even if they belong to the category of family business and operate privately. Imagine a situation based on a specific example, when a family house and another completely separate office building are located on the same location number. The family house has three chimneys, and the office has two chimneys. Plus, the office is rented by two companies. Common sense and our natural sense of rights would dictate that this is not an insurmountable problem: the three chimneys of the family house are still not subject to payment, and the two companies in the other building pay for checking a chimney, as this is how the use is distributed between them. However, in the over-bureaucratized and irrational Orbán state, all of this works differently: here things are not based on logic, common sense, or maybe justice. Centrally appointed service providers also want to pay the fee for the chimneys of the family house by charging businesses, and they want to bill only one of the two companies, saying that they should solve the settlement between themselves. And if they refuse to pay a compulsory fee, the obligation will be passed on to the owner of the family house. Who can rationally explain why both companies cannot be billed or that where they do not engage in industrial-public activities - that is, in the family house - why should they pay when the service is free for the population? Unfortunately, I couldn't get an explanation from the most competent, that is to say, disaster management, when I asked about this, just a justification that the contested practice is legally correct: if a house - and on this basis the two buildings with the single location number are a house - is a business, then the chimney sweep simply treats it as a business seat and does not control it in the framework of the free service, the owner of the undertaking is obliged to order the paying service for the whole property. In such cases, whatever the real situation with chimney use, all chimneys are considered firm, which remains the competence of market operators. And here comes the most absurd rule: when a family property has more farming organisations, it is paid by the one who orders the service, but each of them will be punished if there is no mandatory control. One company in the house can, of course, bill the other for the prize, but this is on the one hand the textbook case of unnecessary bureaucracy and recruitment, and on the other hand it is not always possible, because an account should be given for an activity not included in the registered activities of that company. So the Orbán government has found a non-existent problem, because the chimney sweep service has so far operated on a market basis and on an adequate level in Hungary, and has done a lot of real problems for domestic businesses that are already burdened with unnecessary paperwork and payment. All of this is legal today, which means that the relevant law is useless and harmful; it is time to change it in the light of experience. Thank you for the floor.
u2017-04-19-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2017-04-19-251	Mr President, Dear House, How much longer? The series after the agenda on foreign exchange credit is clearly about the Calvary of those who have been damaged by foreign currency credit. It is true that it is now 22:25 and we understand the situation that none of our pro-government fellow Members are in the room when this very important meat-cutting issue is discussed. And we also need to see that Jobbik has had a lot of professional proposals over the years, in fact we have launched all the ammunition in all the weapons that are possible within Parliament, and indeed outside of that, we have organised a demonstration of about a hundred magnitude for those who have suffered credit, in addition to not being afraid to show up at evictions, to try to reach a new agreement between the enforcers and the victims, since it is not in the national economy's interest to throw thousands or tens of thousands of people out of their homes. However, we also need to see that many families cannot prevent this tragedy from the Jobbik opposition, and the government, unfortunately, has not been a partner, even in these days, not even in the adoption of a lighter proposal that would have clearly indicated that at least in terms of exchange barriers, in a manner affecting 170 thousand people and affecting the family members behind them, they should not at least be allowed to impose an unjustified burden on these people, as another thousand of our countrymen unable to pay their debts could already join the 150 000 camps whose members, apart from their own faults, are unable to pay their debts which are likely to arise after a fictitious, virtual mass of debt. In order to establish the fictitious and untrue nature of this debt, a new accounting law will be required. Sorry, it seems that this can only be done under the governance of Jobbik, as we would like to recalculate these so-called loans at the rate of admission, which is to say that if someone took it at 165 HUF, they should not exchange their credit at the market rate of 256 HUF, but at the rate of 165 HUF on the day of admission. However, we also see that, although we have a barren debate with the government on the resolution of the situation of the credit-damaged, and I am going further, many pro-government Members regularly say that there is no foreign exchange-credit problem in Hungary - I have received such a response today from Tállai State Secretary. He probably meant that no large debt is measured in foreign currency for Hungarian civilians, but that this fraudulent, lying criminal scheme, originally called foreign currency credit, is currently imposing a forint debt on the same people, the same families, to me it is completely unacceptable, and obviously there is the need for a new accounting law here as well. But if the government is no longer willing to do so, I do not understand why it refuses to go in a much simpler, more tangible direction, which at least gives people temporary opportunity. I am thinking that according to the consistent statements of several surveys in Hungary, hundreds of thousands of vacant real estate assets, and this vacant property is divided into three legs, on the one hand there is a state, a municipal-owned leg and a very large private leg. Obviously, no one wants to touch private property in Hungary in this regard, but at least a revision of the state-owned and municipal-owned empty property would be justified. [[22.30]] According to Jobbik's professional calculations, tens of thousands of usable properties can be re-inhabitable after, say, a meaningful translation of public works and, where appropriate, the valuable work of public workers, if appropriate, a temporary shelter for families and, in the longer term, a leg of a public housing program. We do not understand that, while the public work programme is still about luring the mayor's street in many settlements, and elsewhere about serving investments from EU sources, where appropriate, why they do not reach out to this very clear and very obvious opportunity. If only a few thousand families were to be helped with it, the voice of that voice would be very big in Hungary, much bigger than the fact that the facade of a hospital, which is good for the mayor, is being renovated from EU competition sources, because it can cut through the tape, even if it is a hospital from which the doctor has fled, and the anaesthetic machine does not work. Therefore, I say that we reach out to the possibilities that are available, here is a real hidden resource that I have brought up, and it is up to the government to do what it does, what it does with the idea, but if it leaves it without a meaningful reaction, it will be a clear, hard and very negative message for the tens of thousands left on the side of the road. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-04-19-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Just a little clarification: there are two pro-government representatives in the Chamber, Member. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 22:32 p.m.]]
