u2017-03-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr. Attila Móring and Mr. István Szávay will help me with the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we will start our work with speeches before the agenda; then we will take a break and then the President of the Republic will be elected from 9.30 a.m. It is expected that from 13:15 a.m. the questions will take place, and then the hour for immediate questions and answers will take place, and then we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, János Volner, leader of the Group of the Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech: The Jobbik will pay hard taxes to the billionaires close to politics: the landlord is coming! It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader, within a five-minute time frame.
u2017-03-13-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin on the subject of my speech today, let me predict that, given that the idea of a landlord announced by Jobbik this weekend does not please the government, I received the first press interest this morning from which I conclude that a series of discrediting articles will be prepared against me again. In any case, this is the case now: if we come up with ideas here or ask Viktor Orbán unpleasant questions, then the pro-government press will be discredited. I would like to signal to the Secretary of State, as one of the members of the Government in the Chamber, that this does not bother me in the least, to be honest. Now, to begin with, we are talking about the fact that corruption is causing direct damage to Hungary at the annual level of HUF 400 billion. It is about the fact that neither the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the police nor the State Audit Office, nor any body in Hungarian whose leaders are those appointed by Fidesz. Let us not forget, for example, that the main prosecutor, who would be involved in the pursuit of these corruption crimes, is the former member of Fidesz, and the State Audit Office is headed by an ex-fidesz Member of Parliament, and somehow there is no trace of corruption through public procurement. It is important that there is finally accountability in Hungary. We are preparing to account for our accession to the government in 2018, but we are not going to do this the way Fidesz or MSZP did, they have never held any big fish accountable, the system itself did not collapse. We are preparing for real and hard accounting. However, it is important to see that the governing party has not, in a small part, legitimized a significant part of corruption with the votes of the Fidesz MEPs, making sure that these transactions cannot be caught by law, although it can be seen that otherwise a political back wind is moving forward the large businessmen in the immediate environment of the Prime Minister, the people who earn their billions in Hungary. In this case, it is important that this wealth, which cannot be recovered by criminal law or doubt, should be put back into the Hungarian budget in the form of taxes. So, Jobbikos, we are preparing that when we get to government in 2018, we will place a tax burden on the close-up of politics, in which virtually all those involved will become black, in Hungarian, they will lose a significant part of their assets in a few years. Those pro-government entrepreneurs, who are now building up a significant wealth, win one by one in public procurement, have more and more billions, yachts, Croatian villas and the like in their lives. It is important to see that honest entrepreneurs who conduct fair business and compete normally in the way that a large proportion of pro-government entrepreneurs do not otherwise do, we will exempt honest entrepreneurs from such tax obligations, but they will not be covered by this, but in any case by the policy of close businesses. We are introducing a progressive tax system over an annual wealth of HUF 300 million. The greater the wealth, going back to 2002 and going back to the beginning of the Medgyessy government, the greater the rate of taxation, and we will ensure that the budget recovers the funds that have now been obtained from Community funds with significant political support. We will also make sure that if someone tries to hide them, tries to dismember their assets, we will bring the person to justice by criminal means. And we will also ensure that there is no way to hide more money under the names of offshore companies, and that the existing ones will be recovered either by secret service means or within the framework of data exchange agreements. That's what I want you to do. This will be Jobbik's tax system in 2018. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2017-03-13-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, If I understand your words correctly, taking into account your weekend statements, Jobbik would tax the 30,000 farmers who have come to land recently. [[8.10]] This is only surprising because if we look at Jobbik's 2014 election programme, you claim in paragraph 3.6.3. of page 51 that a new division of land is needed. And you'd be taxing those who have come to land recently. So, if I understand correctly, the Jobbik joins those - those on the left - who have nothing else on their mind but the tax increase. From the time of left-wing governance, we are well aware of what this means in practice, because when the left spoke about the taxation of the rich, it was mainly about the people who lived on wages and salaries, the families who raised the child, [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It's not true!]] Or, as you put it, they blacked out. Let me ask you, does this also mean that Jobbik is standing behind another left-wing proposal, which is about giving some layers free money and cash benefits without work, and then people from work are paying nicely. I wish you'd give me an answer. There is also a background to this better proposal, because at the end of the year when Parliament voted on tax reductions, the President of Jobbik did not vote for it. This also means that if Gábor Vona were to depend on it, businesses would not be able to manage the wage increases now. Jobbik's proposal also shows what will be one of the main stakes of the 2018 election. On the one hand, there will be the governing parties, which are committed to tax cuts, on the other hand, the left with Jobbik, which has a mania and a tax increase. It is also clear from your speech that your party, which previously defined itself as a national party, is now taking a harsh left-wing turn. Each day, their previous position will be revised. One day they send a flattering letter on Hanukkah's occasion, then they promote the collection of signatures against the Jewish Olympics, one week they burn an EU flag, and then they join a risky Brussels proposal. One month they oppose immigration, and the next month they do not vote for an anti-quota constitutional amendment. The party president states that Islam is the last hope of humanity, and then one of its vice presidents, in a local government, adopts an anti-Islamic decree with the body of representatives. The fact is that the President of Jobbik was right about one thing: this party does not have a soul at this time. Maybe he's also interested in better voters these days as to why it turned out this way. The answer, I think, is simple. This is because Jobbik has a brand-new owner, a landowner oligarch, who is also a media contractor. My advice to you is that if you're looking to tax someone, I strongly recommend him as a subject. The president of Jobbik will inaugurate one of his TV shows today. I suggest that you put this matter on the table. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Who made him an oligarch?]] Everyone who follows public life can see that the party president's favorite site is the area around the skirt of the oligarch mentioned, and if anyone raises it here in the National Assembly, they start a high-frequency hysteria. After that, we really just want to know how excited Kálmán Olga will be to push Jobbik's chariot. Dear Chief of Staff, Don't be surprised that your voters can't follow that pace anymore. The Jobbik can really do anything for power now. Typically, their party president took photos of a buck cat more often than he stood up for Hungarian interests. That's what Jobbik became. Now we know what it's like when a party president takes the party's soul away, takes it far away, and doesn't feel like bringing it back at all. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr. Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting speech on the behalf of the Prime Minister of the Republic. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-03-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In a normal republic, the election of the President of the Republic is an excellent day. This requires two conditions. One is that there should be a democratic, free and solidarityary republic, and the other condition is that there should be a suitable candidate. Let's look at the first condition. Is there a democratic, free and solidarity republic in Hungary? Fidesz terminated this institution in 2010. But how are we today with the real republic, which does not exist today in Hungary? There is equality before the law in a normal republic. In a normal republic, independent courts, independent prosecutors, operates independently of the Constitutional Court, on a professional basis, independent of the National Bank, operates a system of brakes and balances. In a normal republic, civilians are not harassed. In a normal republic, the media is independent, and it is not possible to see the distorted world through the glasses of Lőrinc and Árpád Habony. And in a normal republic, private property is respected, no retroactive laws are passed, and they are not only engaged in the growth of the Urizing Fidesz party soldiers and the elite of their own private assets. In a normal republic, the law is the law, not the money that has political influence. Now let's look at the right candidate. In principle, the President of the Republic embodies the unity of the Hungarian nation, the unity of a political community, which is part of the government, part of the opposition and part of civil society. Árpád Göncz said at the time that the President of the Republic takes into account the concerns of both parties - government and opposition - in every decision he makes, whose duty is not only to maintain balance, temperament, and the definition of political good manners. Let's see what a suitable candidate really looks like. A suitable candidate does not let bald people stop a Hungarian citizen from exercising his rights when he wants to initiate a referendum. A suitable candidate does not allow the Prime Minister, without authorisation, to secretly indebte his country for decades and to serve the interests of Russia. A normal President of the Republic takes action to break the encryption and fights to make public use of public funds transparent and to make public the operation of the state. [[8.20]] And a suitable President of the Republic is taking action against legislative corruption, and he won't let himself go to that level. Because of these criteria and these conditions, the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party support and recommend László Majtényi to the Parliament and recommend him to the Hungarian nation as President of the Republic. László Majtényi announced a programme on four points with which the socialists can identify. Democracy is important to us, the constitution and the constitutional framework are important to us, and the rule of law is important, as public relations and the transparency of power are important, but what he has said is very important, the fight against poverty. That you have to break the social philosophy you employ in this country, where you already have it, give it even more, and let four million people go. And, of course, what is important to us is that the system of corruption raised to the state level must be dismantled and eliminated. That is why we will support László Majtényi today, with all 28 members of our socialist Parliament. One for the future, for Hungary! Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-13-6	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2017-03-13-7	Dear Chief of Staff, Mr President, Today, the Hungarian Parliament elects a President of the Republic, and if so, it is worth examining two things. On the one hand, it is worth considering the candidate proposed to the country's attention by the left, and through this it is also worth examining what the left itself offers to the electorate. As for László Majtényi's candidacy, the circumstances of the nomination tell us much. When the candidacy went public, they claimed it was a civilian candidate. Then Ferenc Gyurcsány covered the potty, and in an interview he said that the outcome of the political reconciliation was the candidacy. It's good to know that when the left says civilian, it's actually a party decision. That's not the only confusing circumstance. The candidate on the left has not yet clarified the exact amount of money he received from the Soros network. [[Orbán received much more!]] But I'm sure it's of considerable magnitude. Under these circumstances, it is not the left-wing candidate that is the correct term, but that he is the candidate of György Soros. An interesting adjective is that the candidate supported by MSZP has an extremely devastating opinion about the MSZP itself, condemning the socialists in interviews for corruption cases, and in another interview he said that if a whirlwind were to fly MSZP back into power today, it would be obvious that he would continue in the same place where he left off. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And what did he say about Fidesz? That's more important.]] which means that Hungarian society would be in a bucket from a cup to a bucket. Thus said the Majtényi László, who you will support here today, who you believe is the right candidate for the left. Dear Chief of Staff, The thing is that not only does László Majtényi have a devastating opinion about the MSZP, but also the president of the MSZP, who can't be here with us right now. Gyula Molnár talked in a massive radio interview about how the party smells a little sweaty, a little stinky, but it doesn't go below 15 percent. I'm not saying this, I'm saying it's your party president. I would also suggest that you listen to the relevant radio interview. [[Zoltán Grumpy: There's a dog coming, old man!]] The candidate for socialist prime minister is not much more optimistic. László Botka said in his speech - or an interview - that he doesn't care that 36 or 22 socialist MEPs will get into Parliament. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Continue the quote, for it is so accurate!]] Now, that is the opinion your Prime Minister's candidate has of your work. Dear Chief of Staff, All of this, I've told you, is the internal affairs of the MSZP, by the way. However, it is not what voters can hope for from the Socialist Party. On the one hand, a lot of corruption. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: What can we hope for from you?]] They've been out of control for a while, but there's still a lot of dirty skeletons falling out of the closet. It turns out that a third of the metro money was stolen, the people responsible lay low, and they don't even show up at the board of inquiry. There is also a serious scandal in Szeged, a company called Seviép has accumulated a debt of HUF 11 billion. [[Dr. László Varga: It's a Fidesz scandal, man! You're robbing the country! Shame on you!]] He didn't pay the subcontractors, and we're right to think that this money is missing. The threads can lead to László Botka and István Ujhelyi. As far as future socialist measures are concerned, the picture is no more beautiful. We don't know much about their plans, but what we do know is pretty terrible. According to their statements, they would abolish the home creation programme, family tax relief, while drastically increasing taxes. They'd re-introduce multi-key income tax while flirting with the idea of real estate taxes. But perhaps the most serious thing is that they think again in a welfare-based economy, give free money to certain layers, without work, and have their working families pay for it. So, if the socialists came back to power, all we could expect was another pile of corruption cases, tax increases, at the expense of families with children who live from work. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: No, I didn't!]] This is alarming enough for us to say no to it, let's say, at the parliamentary elections in 2018. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Erzsébet Schmuck, from the LMP Group, also applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Why is the business of the century in need of state support? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-13-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Since the European Commission decided on State aid for the planned nuclear power plant investment in Paks, the government's argument system for Paks II has changed significantly. These days, they are mainly talking about the safety of Russian reactors, their high technical standards and their 60-year power supply. At the same time, we all remember that since the signing of the Orbán-Putin nuclear pact, it has been constantly confirmed that enlargement will be the business of the century, it will pay off market revenues and it will not need state aid. However, the decision in Brussels is precisely the opposite. We believe that we must stop lying, clarify to the public of the country and Parliament what the European Commission has decided. Firstly, the subject of the Brussels procedure was not whether it would be appropriate for us to be the pilot Russian reactor type producing a series of technical errors so far, but whether the expansion investment would pay off from the sale of Paks II's electricity at market prices. The Hungarian government has been unable to prove this in the last two years. The Commission concluded that the Hungarian State is taking a financial risk with the project that a private investor would not be willing to take, since the investment is not repaid on a market basis, and that State aid is necessary to avoid bankruptcy, in addition to electricity price revenues. At the same time, the Brussels body not only recorded the fact of state aid, but also that Member States have the right to bad, never-refundable shops, i.e. if they want to build a nuclear power plant that will burn more money than it will ever see again from the electricity sold. The only reason to celebrate this decision is for the real purpose of which is not to secure the country's power supply, but for the uncontrollable, opaque spending of HUF 4 thousand billion of public money. If Hungarian citizens hear the sentence that Paks expansion is necessary for cheap electricity, they should know that the government of Viktor Orbán is lying to their eyes again. According to the Rothschild study, the only calculation accepted by the government is that the new Paks blocks could only be recovered with a significant increase in electricity prices and extremely high utilisation. This was confirmed by the enlargement government commissioner Attila Aszódi at the time of the publication of this study. According to him, a megawatt of EUR 50-55 per hour could be recovered. This means that the current price should be doubled at least. So much for what expansion has to do with cheap electricity. The planned loss-making nuclear power plant to buy from Russia from Russian foreign currency loans has something else to do with the re-indebtedness of Hungary, the risk of which was also highlighted by the European Commission. But there is something else that we need to worry about in connection with enlargement. CHAPTER XXI In the first century, a nuclear power plant has not yet been built in Europe within the planned budget. Now we should believe that this will be the first to succeed in Hungary in Orbán, where the tide pool has increased five times from the beginning to the handover, and the price will continue to increase by HUF 300-400 million per week. [[8.30]] The Paks expansion itself will cost 4,000 billion forints in basic tone. However, this price certainly does not include the cost of the storage of nuclear waste at 1600 billion or the cost of the new pipeline system for the transportation of electricity at 400 billion. There are no interest rates in it, because of which we have to pay back the Russians almost twice as much as we take out as a loan from them, and there are no additional expenses that Hungary's creditors will have to pay for as a result of the increase in public debt. In other words, it has long been not a question of how much we profit from the investment of the century, but of whether the country will survive this irresponsible gamble without economic bankruptcy. The state aid that Brussels has agreed to in the area of enlargement means that we are allowed to have the debt tip paid by the government with the taxpayers. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-13-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Szabolcs Takács, State Secretary, will respond.
u2017-03-13-11	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to say the following in relation to your speech. Of course, the government kept communicating that the reliability of Russian reactors is high and that they can really work on a high quality. I think the last 60 years have proved that to all of us. So we have no doubt about it. The Hungarian government not only communicates this, but also that its aim has been to produce cheap energy for the population from the first day of the negotiation of the whole project. I think that's the strategic interest of all of us. You are fully aware of the process that we conducted with the European Commission during the negotiations, since it has been very transparent for the Hungarian Government, the Parliament and all the Members to keep their knowledge of the documents within the legal framework. I would like to report to you that we have conducted five different procedures with the European Commission since November 2013. With the European Commission, whose word is so high and whose guidelines are regarded as a question of credibility. I think it is also worth following this voiced approach in this case. Last week, on 6 March, the investment in capacity in Paks was given a green light by Brussels, so when the competition investigation was completed, the last obstacle to achieving this large investment was removed. [[He replaced István Szávay in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] I would also like to say that the European Commission also stated in its resolution that this investment is also a major contribution to achieving climate protection objectives. It also means addressing structural challenges in the electricity market in the coming decades and also contributing to the security of the Union's electricity supply. In the last three years, the Hungarian Government has conducted very intensive, very fair negotiations, not with political, but with economic content, with the various authorities of the European Commission. In many cases, we have agreed on a daily basis to ensure that large energy investments can be carried out in line with the expectations and procedures of Brussels, in order to enforce Hungarian national interests. The Commission's State aid investigation found that the Hungarian State would accept a lower rate of return than that acceptable to private investors in relation to the investment. I think it's a very important sentence, that's what we should be paying attention to and focusing on. We considered it very important that Paks II. The project should be a profitable investment, the construction of new blocks is worth it for Hungary, and the nuclear power plant will be able to provide cheap electricity supply in Hungary for 60 years. We also took seriously questions about the return on capacity-building investment. Therefore, we relied on the opinion of Rothschild, an expert group with hundreds of years of financial practice. According to the Rothschild Analysis House, the investment in Paks is a good business for Hungary, which was also confirmed in its report which was published at the end of 2015. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's not what the Rothschild says.]] Yeah. The analysis concludes that the expected return on investment is 9-9,6 percent, which is higher than the capital cost of 6.2-7 percent. That is, the investment will be repaid to the Hungarian State and the power plant will be able to pay dividends from the start of operation. The Commission's decision also confirms that the investment will also generate investment, operation and credit costs. However, the Commission considers that an investor in the market would not be worth the investment because of a profit differential of less than 1 per cent. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Member and all present to the fact that Hungary is not a public limited company, it is not a private investor, so we are not primarily seeking extra profit, but [[Agnes Kunhalmi: To stealing.]] to give people cheap energy in the long run. It is equally important to preserve the achievements of the reduction of the rent, and it is crucial for the long-term competitiveness of the Hungarian economy that Hungarian people and domestic businesses obtain cheap energy in such a way that the sovereignty of the country is not undermined. It is a depositary for maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, i.e. the replacement and maintenance of nuclear power plants that stopped in the 2030s. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, spoke with a title on our national holiday and culture. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-13-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It's March 13th. The multitude of our public buildings and private houses, dressed in festive ornaments, our national flag and the cocards above our hearts, proclaim that we are preparing for the most beloved day of our Hungarian community. Here, in the house of the country, especially in the pro-government ranks, you can feel the unusual mood, because two days before 15 March we choose a free head of state, free of the dictatorship of foreign powers, who represents Hungarians, all Hungarians and Hungary in the world in the spirit of our Constitution and Fundamental Law. For us parliamentary representatives, this election is one of our highest tasks and missions. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case in our history. 169 years ago, young men and heroes of March fought for our freedom and sacrificed their lives in battles against the flood. Respect and thanks to the heroes of that time, the brave ones and their contemporary descendants who have fulfilled the words of the poet, according to which the Hungarian name will be beautiful again, / to the great news of the great old. A lifetime ago, our freedom was finally born, but we have to fight for it over and over again. Today. We have the right to quote Michael Vörösmarty's lines from the old gypsy: there is a war in the great world now, / God's tomb is shaking in the holy country. CHAPTER XXI We must also fight our independence struggles at home and at international level in Europe in order to enable Hungary to decide its own fates. How? - we can ask him right away. Of course, not with weapons, in battles, but with a pure heart, with a frank voice, with a straight hold, with persistent work of art, talent, diligence and the promotion and enhancement of the values of Hungarian culture. Our prospects are good because we're strong in this. We recently celebrated the day of Hungarian culture as one man. We devote the whole year to the memory, keeping awake and enriching of the giant, his apostle, of the Hungarian language; of course I meant János Arany. Together we rejoice at the success of Hungarian films, the fourth Oscar and the Golden Bear Prize. We are excited for them and rightly boast of the success of our young virtuososos and the Flying Peacocks. We are happy and proud to listen to the beautiful poetry, song, and music of our schoolchildren, and we delight in their captivating, hilarious folk dances, even in the smallest villages. [[8.40]] The publication presented in recent days, in which Lajos Kossuth's message goes to all Hungarian schools throughout the Carpathian Basin, was a good title. Or more and more of us are working and we are contributing to the strengthening of Hungary. And as our new compatriots, we can welcome people, including popular athletes, who have chosen this country with their oath of citizenship. It was as if Sándor Petőfi's message had been taken into their possession: if I had not been born Hungarian, / I would now stand with this people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Getting ready for a celebration, I'm sure you can understand more than usual thoughts. Let us give ourselves to joy, and let us not forget for a single hour our common business, quoting the words of the poet of the Anthem:. Hass, create, increase: and the country is brightened to light. Long live the Hungarian freedom, long live the country! [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2017-03-13-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you so much for your festive and elevated thoughts. Indeed, on 15 March and then on 11 April and on many other occasions, we remember Hungarians who were very brave, courageous in their own era, showing their own courage, either when they started the revolution, or when they made the laws of April, or when they successfully fought the imperial troops in the spring campaign. Indeed, it is this kind of courage that is a role model for us, which we remember, which is moments in Hungarian history that are worth writing in red in the calendar and remembering year after year. However, freedom has never been given to us Hungarians for free. Ronald Reagan has the saying that every generation is only one generation away from the extinction of freedom, because if there is one generation that thinks that the freedom he has is his own, it's his own, so he doesn't have to do it, he doesn't have to take care of it, he doesn't have to fight for it, then in a generation, people will lose their freedom in that community. This is why it is important for all generations to fight, as situations arise, even today, which we thought were unimaginable ten years ago, how fear settled in Europe, or how the identity crisis is becoming more and more widespread. This is indeed a time when we Hungarians must also talk about the debates about our future. In 1848-49, it was strong enough and then even armed, today in a different way, but we do have to shape our own future. At the same time, the Hungarians of 48 said that the governor's council would decide for us, and we do not have to say today that anyone should decide for us about our own cause; do not have this little faith as a feature of the Hungarians; neither was it in 48, nor should it today, but should we stand up with the same determination as in 1848, but fortunately in more peaceful circumstances. Not that Europe's mood is not raging, not like it was in 48, but in other ways it is raging, and, as we watch the news, in more and more places, it also turns into violence. It is very important to protect our own culture, our own communities, so that Europe is a Europe of nations and non-nationalities, which is why the anniversary of János Arany, mentioned by the congresswoman, was announced by Hungary on the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Arany. It began on 2 March at the Grand Salon, and in early May it will continue with the Academy's festive assembly. All over the country, not only in Nagykőrös and Debrecen, not only in Budapest, but everywhere else there will be celebrations and exhibitions, new Golden Volumes will be published, scientific programs and recitation competitions will take place in the Golden Memorial Year one after another. He is a great role model for many, János Arany, because he struggled from poverty to the position of Secretary General of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and since then we have remembered him as an emblematic form of national culture. The government has set a four billion HUF framework for the Memorial Year's programmes, on the one hand central commemorations will take place in Nagykőrös as the capital of the Golden Cult, but of course, there will also be special programmes in Nagyszalontan, János Arany's birthplace, but In Nagykőrös we are preparing for a complete reconstruction of the monument. President János Áder is the patron of the Memorial Year, but the President of the Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Arts is also involved in the patronage work. The Golden Memorial Year is the celebration of the living Hungarian language, so the organizers of the commemorative year are also preparing a variety of special programs: reading nights, book appearances in public spaces, literary lessons led by writers, and many other tools to draw attention to János Arany and the Hungarian language. There are also more formal manifestations of artistic productions, not only stage productions, but also Golden Bus and the like throughout the country. Cross-border events and diaspora events will also colour the Golden Memorial Year; and it is also important that many Gold Treasures can be digitised and made available online in the next year. And, as the congresswoman said, however, Hungarian culture, the Hungarian film culture, is also a golden age if I can live with this transfer, because from the Oscar Prize to the Golden Bear Prize, there have been a lot of Hungarian film success in recent years. If you look at the international recognition of the Hungarian film since the new film support system, there are already over 130 people who have received international recognition from Karlovy Vary to Cannes or the Golden Globe Award. And let's face it, it was good for the Hungarian economy, because it tripled in GDP [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] both the number of film industry and the number of employees included in the total national product. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kósa, leader of the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda:. The great opposition race for the second place: Soros versus Simicska. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-03-13-17	Mr. President. Dear House, While the Hungarian Parliament elects the new President of the Republic today, it is very important to state [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm sure there's finally some clean water in the glass. For a very long time, it has not been clear what interests are in politics. It has finally turned out that the entire Balliberal opposition has lined up behind László Majtényi, everyone, the independent, which clearly shows what we have been saying for a long time that the opposition is trying to implement the policy represented by György Soros in Parliament and Hungary [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] ; the pro-Migrationism, the desire to deliver Hungary to international investors, to weaken the nation's immune system sufficiently to prevent it from politicalising and representing its own interests in its own interests. On the other side, it has been very clear for a long time that the party that Lajos Jobbik Simicska was decisively influenced, but this weekend on the zsurpubi.hu website - it is a bit unusual, but we will get used to watching zsurpubi.hu in the news about Jobbik, perhaps catfiuk.com or partyarc.government, because [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We don't know that website, Lajos!]] Then maybe this will be the government portal if fate happens - let's hope not. But in any case, the son of the known oligarch, who, by the way, controls the press empire in their possession, [[Zoltán Grumpy: And you didn't have a boyfriend, Louis? Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you have nothing to do with Simicka!?]] He said that they were betting on Jobbik, and in fact, according to the Simicska family, the only question is whether there will be two thirds of Jobbik. Let us not comment on whether this is insightful or something else, but let us be honest about one: that there is finally clear water in the glass. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] Finally, the Hungarian electorate can see clearly what power conditions, which groups of forces are trying to influence and control the fate of Hungary in Parliament. [[Interview from the ranks of MSZP: Lőrinc Mészáros!]] The left-wing and liberal opponents are clearly in György Soros's net, and it is quite obvious, it is no accident that they emphasize the same political steps, stressing the same political values that George Soros has said on numerous occasions. We believe that this is life-threatening for Hungary, and not only for Hungary, György Soros has already been banned from many countries of the world, but also from England, so it cannot be called a Central Asian republic, simply because he has been circling the political sky in England until it turns out that he is actually playing to ruin the pound and to get richer. [[8.50]] Hungary has already learned that the country is facing bankruptcy as we all lived in 2010, when, in essence, Greece's fate, the country is in a completely hopeless situation thanks to the government of the social liberal government. The new element is that Jobbik has found your game too. [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]] They've tried to deny it a lot. At a time when we made various references in Parliament to the fact that everyone has an owner, Jobbik also tries to do so in vain, as if it were a coincidence that, for example, with an unexpected turn in the debate on the ground, they suddenly took sides from the farmers' party to the big owners. That's when we said we could still find a connection. If a large owner is a man's financier, like Lajos Simicska to Jobbik, then it may well be that suddenly farmers and land distribution become less important, but the interests of the estate must be represented. [[György Szilágyi: Don't say anything about democracy. Márton Gyönėgyösi: About the Liberal International! Noise.]] There were many other changes in their politics that shocked everyone who had not seen the underlying context. Even when the Jobbik was Simicska-free, Jobbik's leader said in the Hungarian Parliament [[Noise in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing several times.]] that it is a traitor who does not vote for the anti-quota constitutional amendment, and then the Jobbik did not completely vote, astounding his support group, the electorate. And the whole country felt deceived, except for the Simicska family, who had rubbed their hands, that they had finally managed to get Jobbik on this issue, so to speak, and that Jobbik had withdrawn from his previous position and simply did not defend the country. He refused to amend the Constitution, although they had previously declared it treason. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] Gentlemen. Dear Hungary! There's water all over the glass. Balliberal opposition - György Soros; Jobbik - Simicska family; we try to represent the Hungarian people in our modest way. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Long live the business! Long live the business! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Csaba Dömötör responds to what has been said. [[In the notary seat Mrs. Hegedűs Lorántné will be replaced by István Szávay.]]
u2017-03-13-19	Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, based on the movements of recent months, it seems that foreign speculators and domestic sleigh oligarchs are doing everything they can to wreak havoc on the government. They line up behind the opposition parties and, by the way, behind the individual media. It really clears up a lot a year before the election. But this is not the only way the government will face it. There are many arrows coming from the direction of Brussels. These attacks affect a number of areas: from energy prices to tax policy to immigration. The issue of immigration was not the last thing I said because, above all, it is in this matter that the government has to stand on the ground. Just to give you an example: more and more EU leaders are threatening Hungary by reducing the EU funds coming here, saying that Hungary is not solidarity enough. I would like to say two things in this regard. Hungary's solidarity is that it defends the Schengen borders with all its might, and that is what many EU leaders expect us to do in the negotiations. On the other hand, we regard EU funds not as some kind of humanitarian aid, but as compensation for Hungary's opening up its markets at a time when Hungarian businesses were still at a competitive disadvantage. The words of the German Commissioner also show that, through orders, large international companies benefit very much from the EU's resources to Hungary, so we are even. Secondly, the left-wing majority of the European Parliament also has a right to the government. Hungary was recently attacked at a committee meeting. Liberal and leftist factions demand action. We are very sorry that some left-wing parties here are joining this operation, and according to the news, in one of the next plenary sessions the country can be attacked by those in the European Parliament who have done so in recent years. The third group of attacks comes from political activist groups mainly funded from abroad. These groups spread baseless slanders about the Hungarian police. They report nonsense to the international press, while not saying a word when dozens of policemen were injured at Röszke because angry immigrants threw stones and concrete at them. Where were the lawyers then? It would be good for groups of defenders to extend the wide, large umbrella of legal protection to Hungarian families sometimes. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Despite the movement of foreign speculators, despite being pawned by an oligarch with Jobbik, blackmailed from Brussels with EU funds, and despite the discrediting campaign of foreign-funded activists, these attacks only result in the government taking a stand for national affairs with double force. Accordingly, we want to control the definition of energy prices, tax and employment policies, while we must protect borders with all our might and ensure greater transparency because of attempts to gain influence abroad. We expect the Hungarian citizens to confirm the position of the government and the Prime Minister in the forthcoming national consultation. We must stand for national independence, whether the opposition parties like it or not! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr István Szávay, notary, to present the list of speakers after the agenda.
u2017-03-13-21	Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, an independent representative, applied for the speech after the agenda today; Sándor Burány, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; István Szávaray, Jobbik.
u2017-03-13-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, From 9.30 a.m., the President of the Republic will be elected. I'll take a break. [[Break: 8.56-9.38President: Kövér LászlóJózsef Attila Móring and István Szávay]]
u2017-03-13-23	[[The people in this room stand up.]] Dear Parliament, Please stand and welcome President János Áder. [[Dr. János Áder enters the Presidential box. The people in the room are sitting down.]] I would also like to extend my compliments to Dr. László Majtényi, candidate for President of the Republic and his guests. [[General applause. Independent Members applaud, and some Members of the MSZP stand up and applaud.]] Prime Minister Viktor Orbán [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mrs. Dalma Mádl [[General applause.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mádl Dalma (General applause) Former President of the Republic, Pál Schmitt (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties). ), all former and current public officials, leaders of Hungarian and cross-border historical churches, representatives of foreign Hungarian communities, members of the diplomatic body, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament, Members of the Parliament, national representatives, all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The election of the President of Hungary by secret ballot follows. At the meeting of the House Committee on 10 March, the factions were informed that the group of MSZP and LMP and 10 independent representatives had nominated Dr. László Majtényi as President of the Republic by submitting 43 supporting signatures. The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association and 131 MPs of the Christian Democratic People's Party nominated Dr. János Áder as President of the Republic. I would like to inform you that no invalid recommendation has been received. Testimonials containing signatures S/14348. and S/14361. can be seen on the website. Dear Parliament, Based on the decision of the House Committee, candidates may speak for a period of 15-15 minutes. Before that, please allow me to present the biography of the candidates. Dr. László Majtényi was born in Budapest on 30 November 1950. He received his degree in law at the University of Eötvös Loránd in 1975. László Majtényi started his career at Mahart, after which he taught at the Budapest University of Technology. At the beginning of the 1990s, he helped the Constitutional Court work, first as a consultant, later as a senior advisor. He defended his candidacy thesis in 1992. During his career, he taught at several universities. In 1995 the Parliament elected him as Data Protection Commissioner, which held office for six years. President of the Eötvös Károly Institute for Public Policy since its founding in 2003. He was president of the National Radio and Television Board for a year and a half from 2008. He has been a doctor of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences since 2010. László Majtényi Head of Department at the University of Miskolc since 2010 and professor since 2012. He is the author of many publications, an internationally recognised expert in his field. His scientific, professional and public activities spanned several countries from 1988 to today, from Norway to the United States. The Council of Europe has also provided advice in a number of countries as an expert on information rights. His work was recognized with numerous awards and awards, in 2010 he received the award of the Central Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary with the star. Dear House, Mr László Majtényi, candidate for President of the Republic, will now take place within a 15-minute timeframe. I ask Dr. László Majtényi to come to the auditorium and give his speech.
u2017-03-13-24	Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Members of the Diplomatic Corps! Dear Guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the press, - including those banned from Parliament. My presidential programme can be summarised in one sentence: no matter how convinced we are, whether we are voters of any party, we are all better institutions than living under the rule of men. People are whimsical, so under human rule, our lives are more unpredictable than when institutions govern. [[9.40]] When I thank you for the support of the parties and Members who have appointed me, I also thank you for the fact that, by their support, you have also found my announced presidential programme eligible. Since my program is a system-critical program, I also thank you for your support for your faith in its content. I also thank the helpers, my family, my wife, Sándor Székely, Balázs Gulyás, Péter Krasztef and Tamás Melár for the last few months. So let's see... [[Lajos Kósa: György Soros?]] I didn't say thank you to George Soros, but next time. [[Moraj and interventions from the benches of the governing parties, including Zoltán Balog: The ingratitude...]] So let's see the presidential program. With the full functioning of the institutional system of democratic publicity, guaranteeing human rights, free and fair elections, it is necessary to ensure that voters have a real opportunity to replace the practitioners of government power from time to time. [[Constant noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] Poverty is unbearable. The Republic of Hungary must ensure that all its members are able to live a decent life. Corruption has brought the state under control. The state controlled by its citizens must fight corruption by the strictest means at its disposal, in particular by using the public institutions. To this end, sustainable development, the protection of future generations, is also an important part of these fundamental principles that define the functioning of the state. Many people think that the issues of the rule of law are far from people's everyday problems - I see this differently. Whether I am thinking of poverty in third world relations, of stolen private pension funds, of tramps, of Kishantos and of any other legally abducted land, of slippery teaching and freedom of the press, of the freedom of culture or of our other confiscated physical and intellectual property, we must admit that we can only rely on independent institutions to protect the personal selfishness of the powerful. With corrections, leaving his crimes behind, of course, we should quickly return to the values of our constitutional movement 89-90, in short: parliamentary democracy. At the same time, however, it is long ago time to limit the selfishness of the powerless, the rich against the poor, and the healthy, men towards women, the national majority against minorities, and the generations currently living here against future generations. We want Hungary free and solidarity. My ideal is as little state as possible, as much solidarity as possible. We didn't get our rights from the state. They deserve us because we were born human. We want a country whose citizens are all equally dear children, whether politically centered or out on the edge, so let all citizens of the state be treated equally fairly and equally in all cases. I'm talking about equal dignity. It also follows that, with regard to asylum, only a moral and constitutional policy can be justified that regards those expelled from their homeland as carriers of dignity equivalent to that of ours. Only a good refugee policy that meets the moral and legal requirements of humanity. At the same time, not all humane refugee policies are a good policy, as the art of politics has many aspects. Every public dispute is the hallway to tyranny. It is as if others have recently remembered the famous advice of Machiavelli: the wise Prince, if he has the opportunity to do so, must slylyly make an enemy by ending up with his power to grow. If the Prince is looking for an enemy, yesterday is the migrant, today is the bad oligarch, tomorrow is the Soros, and the day after tomorrow you will be the enemy. Countries only evolve in peace. Infighting perpetuates war psychosis, and this is the main barrier to all progress. In the year of the anniversary of the reconciliation leading to unprecedented development and cultural effervescent development in Hungarian history, we must definitely think about this. We must finally close the more than 100-year-old feud between the adherents of history and modern Hungary, which was still at stake a hundred years ago, but the basis of the conflict has now been completely closed, the debate has cooled down, and this new compromise is supported in spirit by the fact that the system of national cooperation has cheated on both parties. [[9.50]] When I think of social peace, usually in agreement, I always have in mind the beautiful March poem of Mihály Babits: Peace! Let there be peace! Let's get this over with. However, there are cultural preconditions for peace. For example, poverty, corruption, intimidation, oppression, destruction of the environment can never be made at peace. Peace is also not quiet. On the contrary, peace is a constant debate, dialogue. But as long as there is one opinion of the billboard and the hack media, there will never be peace. According to the Constitution of the State of Law and the Fundamental Law, the President of the Republic expresses the unity of the nation. In my view, that's not accurate enough. Not so much to express as to serve the nation's unity. The president's words, actions, gestures can help the national unity, but they can also cause damage. In any case, it is not good to think in two Hungarys. I propose that the only Hungary should always be in our sight. Two hundred years ago, János Arany was born, without whom, I can say, even if we were, but surely we would not be who we are. I ask now, although from Berzsenyi to Radnóti, Pilinszky, Bartók and I can continue: we are not exactly Hungarians by him, too? And I add, in the words of Marai, that is the beautiful and strange Eastern language that connects us. And when he warns strictly of today's distasteful debates, Golden: * Many would like to see the country: / But they hate all his sons, / If on popular occasions / He doesn't cry out as big as they do. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This brings me to the question of the desirable role of president. I have two presidential models in front of me: Árpád Göncz and László Sólyom. They both set an example out of personal autonomy. I liked the curiosity of Árpád Göncz; his curiosity of everyone born by mother. László Falcon's constitutional rigour is an attractive example for me. The ideal non-existent president would follow them. Two quotations that illustrate my words from the first Göncz: if I wish to serve someone, I wish to serve those who do not have a servant: the defenseless. And Falcon goes on to say that both the opposition, the government and the people's majesty have a fundamental obligation to comply with certain standards. And if these standards become uncertain, if they want to justify crossing standards, then the president has a duty to speak. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I don't sell bags. As a newly elected President of the Republic, I would not be more than half an hour grateful to the parties that elected me, since the President of the Republic is guarding the Constitution. And gratitude is certainly not a constitutional category. Let's talk about people one more time. Anyone who gains all power will legally lose everything. His path therefore leads to nothing in a political sense. In this sense, therefore, all independent institutions render invaluable service to the person whose power is limited. As President of the Republic, I would certainly not be a frozen-smile thank-you man or a mute and gloomy sphinx. In a situation in which the restoration of constitutionality is at stake, the responsibility of the President of the Republic is particularly high. This entails the responsibility to make full use of the instruments provided to him under the Fundamental Law in order to protect constitutionality. As President, I would, of course, use all the tools that excellent predecessors have used in the first place. However, given that the constitutionality in Hungary broke in spring 2013, there is also a place for the use of somewhat unorthodox instruments to protect constitutionality. I'd like to turn to two of these devices. One of them is the president's almost unlimited right to speak, which is likely to be matched by many. Don't do it! With six years of ombudsman service behind my back, I know exactly what I'm talking about. I know that before convincing and correct reasoning, the iron - strapped, heavy gates of state power are often opened. Words of truth are never powerless, at least in the case of the 17th. In the 18th century, in England, it was believed that the truth could not be defeated by falseness in an open debate. The other possibility, which has not been used so far, is that the President has the unlimited right to submit draft laws to the Parliament. I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity and even make it a regular one. The Parliament is not obliged to accept the proposals, but is obliged to discuss them. In view of the March holiday ahead, the first symbolic law to be presented could also be about freedom of the press, as the last press announcements of the press are disappearing, and perhaps we are not so far from the implementation of Endre Ady's 1901 prophecy: . All the printed lines will soon be suspicious: it cannot be honest, because they dared to write it down. "You," said Endre Ady, and wrote it. I would also like to draw up a new law on the Constitutional Court, a social law, a law on higher education and public education, and a law on the control of corruption. I would like to note that less abuse, lying, serializing, foreign agents might have been more. In light of the past few weeks, I could ask that if there are parties here that have enjoyed Soros's support, vote for me in today's vote. Of course I don't want it. I, if a horse's horse's horse with mud, I'd rather smack it than wipe it off, and as well as Gold's great successor, not only will I not shut up, but I'll complain about knowledge. To sum up: returning to our constitutional traditions, the Republic must be restored; the Republic, in which independent institutions ensure the constitutional limitations and fundamental rights of the exercise of public authority. We need a constitution that is strengthened by a referendum, expressed by the common values of the controversial groups of society and creates peace. Thank you very much. [[A long applause in the lines of MSZP and LMP. Independent congressmen are standing up and applauding.]]
u2017-03-13-25	Thank you for the speech of the candidate for President of the Republic. Dear Parliament, Before speaking with President János Áder, I would like to ask you to allow me to present your biography. Dr. János Áder was born on 9 May 1959 in Csorna, the first child of the family. He obtained a diploma at the Révai Miklós High School in Győr, then successfully enrolled at the Faculty of Law and Law of the University of Eötvös Loránd, where he graduated with a cum laude qualification in 1983. János Áder is one of our system-changing politicians. He participated in the historic meeting in 1987 in Lakitelek, then in the 1989 Opposition and National Round Table negotiations, where he played an important role in the development of the democratic electoral system. At the first free parliamentary election in 1990, he was elected as a Member of Parliament as a candidate for the Association of Young Democrats. In his hometown, Csorna, he became an individual parliamentary representative three times in a row. He participated in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Preparation of Law and Justice of the Parliament. In 1998 he was elected President of the Hungarian Parliament, which held his post until 2002. In 2009, Dr. János Áder was elected member of the European Parliament. As an EU Member, he also performed the Vice-President's duties of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety of the European Parliament. On 2 May 2012, the Parliament elected János Áder as the fifth President of Hungary. János Áder's wife is Dr. Anita Herczegh, with whom they had four children during 32 years of marriage. [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, Mr János Áder's candidature will now take place, also within a 15-minute timeframe. I ask Dr. János Áder to come to the stage of the lecturer and give his speech. [[Dr. János Áder will be escorted from the lodge to the pulpit by a staff member of the Office of the Security Service. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-26	Mr. Speaker! Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, As a candidate for President of the Republic, I stand before you for the second time, and for the second time, I have the honour of being nominated for this office, so my first word is thanks. I owe thanks to my colleagues who have helped me with my work for the last five years. Thank you all for encouraging me to continue the work. Thank you for all those who have supported my nomination for the second time. Finally, I thank László Majtényi for taking the test and sharing his thoughts with us. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, You will soon decide who will be head of state of Hungary in the next five years. Five years ago, when I was standing in front of you in the same way, I made it clear what principles, values, and conviction I would like to exercise this position. You are right to claim it now, and I consider it my duty to tell you what I promised you at the time. The 15 minutes at my disposal are not enough for a full count, but I would like to offer you just a few examples, in order to help you decide whether there is any basis for my promise that I will continue to work on the basis of the values and principles that have been declared for five years. Five years ago here in Parliament, I said: As President of the Republic, I will always be a spokesperson for Hungarian interests and values at home and in the world. The foreign policy scope of the President of the Republic of Hungary follows clearly from the Fundamental Law of Hungary. That, in addition to the mandatory protocolary tasks, this margin gives the head of state the opportunity to resolve and close long-standing disputes, let me give you an example. In 2012, Tomiszlav Nikolic, President of Serbia, was my first official guest of state. During the negotiations, I raised the massacres in Bácsák in 1944-45 and the decision of 1945 on the collective guilt of Hungarians. President Nikolic's reply -, the time for forgiveness and reconciliation has come - was a hopeful approach to the agreement. For the sake of our less experienced compatriots in history, let's take a detour. In 1942 Hungarian soldiers and gendarmes killed innocent Serbs in Novi Sad. In the winter of 1944-45, Tito's partisans had many revenges on innocent Hungarians: in three settlements, Csúrog, Mozsor, Zsablya, the bloodshed was particularly brutal. In 1945, the Yugoslav authorities declared the collective guilt of Hungarians in a resolution. Then there was a long, decades of silence. Not only did the innocent victims fail to give the ultimate honor, but the Yugoslav authorities were not even willing to acknowledge the carnage. In vain, Tibor Cseres penitent with his novel Cold Days in 1964, then András Kovács - who left us two days ago; God rest his soul - with the same title in 1966, the gesture of reconciliation failed to return. A joint committee of historians started work in 2011, but the political will to close the past has yet to be completed. After the agreement in principle with President Nikolics in Budapest, the decision of the Serbian Parliament was taken in 2013, which condemned the atrocities committed at the end of the Second World War. This was a prerequisite for the Hungarian President to say the following sentences in the Serbian Parliament in June 2013:. The free and democratic Hungary condemns those who, by increasing the sufferings of the Second World War, have sinned against innocent Serbian people as Hungarians. As President of Hungary, I apologize for the crimes committed by Hungarians against innocent Serbs during the Second World War. And although sins cannot be undone, we believe that forgiveness after a mutual apology can go beyond reconciliation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The next day, together with the President of Serbia, we bowed our heads to the monuments of the innocent Serbian and Hungarian victims. President Nikolic returned my words in the Serbian Parliament with the following words: "It is an essential human duty to remember and forgive each other. We do this honestly, together and with equal devotion. After a few months, the Serbian Government annulled the decision on the collective guilt of Hungarians in 1945. Ladies and Gentlemen, That this tragic, painful chapter of the past has been completed after 70 years, by setting an example for other European countries, thanks to those who have searched for memories and memories for decades; for those who have tried again and again to take a few personal risks, to commemorate innocent Hungarian victims in a worthy manner every year. There were more, but I would like to mention the names of the two: Márton Matuska and Juliet Teleki [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Those who have not given up hope for decades have helped us to see that the world is XX. Let's restore something of his moral order in the first century. Thank you for that. Dear House, In my speech at the time of my election, I suggested that we make performance the central issue of our life together, the appreciation of the able and willing to do; not only of our scientists, inventors, excellent artists, successful athletes, but of our countrymen in the most diverse areas of everyday life. All of this was solved by a quote by Ferenc Deák who said: . Not troubled by inspiring thoughts, but by a series of common, useful, welfare-enhancing actions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In my intention to make performance the central issue of our lives, I have only been strengthened in the last five years, because I have found a great deal of evidence. Just a few examples. In a small village in Tolna County, I could see that 40 percent unemployment had been eliminated through a diligent, trying mayor. In another small village in Borsod County, Gömörszőlős was an example of how to maintain the tradition of our ancestors at the same time and the XXI. To meet the challenges of the century. [[10.10]] I learned from Békéscsaba that a domestic business can be successful by international standards: with its best-known castings for cars and trucks, more than a thousand people can earn bread. At the exhibition opening of the Rubik's Cube in New Jersey, I could boast that there was neither love nor number of Hungarian inventions, discoveries, innovations that became so part of our daily lives that we could not imagine our lives without them. Every two years at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, when the Bolyai Prize was presented - continuing the tradition of my predecessors - I was able to slap on behalf of the Hungarian nation the performance of our best scientists. And it was also an example that, on behalf of my fellow countrymen, I thanked doctors and nurses at the University of Debrecen for the worldwide achievement of keeping a brain-dead pregnant mother in artificial life. They all knew that they couldn't save the mother, but thanks to their 92-day heroic effort, the fetus became a healthy baby. No one has ever managed to achieve this, but Hungarian doctors and Hungarian nurses have. Thank you for that. Dear Parliament, Over the past five years, responsibility for future generations has been a priority in my work as President, discussing the issues most relevant to them. It is no coincidence, but rather fateful, that at the first international forum in Rio de Janeiro, where I represented Hungary in June 2012, I had to give an opinion on climate change, environmental sustainability and the threat of the water crisis. In recent years, in scientific forums - from the World Science Forum to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences - I have been able to express my opinion at political conferences - from New York to Paris - at international events - from Daegu to the Budapest Water Summits. The more places I went, the more performances I was preparing for, the more analysis I read, the more alarming the images unfolded in front of me. It was sad to face the local and global consequences of political neglect, government irresponsibleness, the short-term and short-sighted calamari spirit in almost every country of the Earth, the fact that over the past fifty years, mankind has consumed more resources than previously in history; the fact that in less than half a century there has been an unstoppable increase in greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, despite all political vows; the disappearance of a forest in excess of the territory of Europe on Earth; the unique vulnerability of the Carpathian Basin in terms of climate change. It was an honor to talk to Pope Francis about these issues and join the global campaign launched by former US Vice-President Al Gore to enforce a more ambitious Paris agreement. I would also like to thank all the citizens of Hungary who participated in this campaign and, with their activity, put Hungary first in the imaginary competition for collecting electronic signatures. Once again today, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the fact that, following the Paris climate agreement, the Hungarian Parliament - by accepting my proposal - first ratified the convention in the European Union. The determination in your unanimous vote greatly strengthens Hungary's negotiating positions in further discussions on the implementation of the Paris Agreement. Our shared responsibility for our built and natural environment is across parliamentary and government cycles. To further work together, I commend the words of Pope Albert Einstein and Pope Francis. Albert Einstein, who said, "No problem can be solved with the same thinking that caused them." And in his encyclical, Pope Francis warned us of our moral responsibility when he wrote: "The natural environment is a common good, the heritage of all mankind, and everyone is responsible for it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, For the past five years, I have completed many of my speeches with Kölcsey's sentence: . Home in front of everything! Although I could not present a more concise formulation of political, public-law responsibility today, this time I would like to suggest the thoughts of János Arany, born 200 years ago, to your attention. In a year's time, you'll all be preparing for a competition. The noise of political debates will be strengthened in the coming months. When you compare your arguments over and over in the course of the debate, think of János Arany, who said:. Who says: "I will not give to your country as much as I can, I will take it as if he were saying: I do not want Hungary to be." We didn't think that if the country wasn't, we wouldn't be, we wouldn't have oxen, we wouldn't have houses, we wouldn't have lands, we wouldn't be ourselves. 'Cause that's what the country's made of. Now that's the question: do we want him to live in the country or not? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[A long applause in the pro-government benches. János Áder is escorted from the Pulpit to the box by a staff member of the Office of the Security Service.]]
u2017-03-13-27	I thank the President of the Republic for his candidacy. Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the rules of the election of the President of the Republic. According to Article 11 of the Fundamental Law, it is the President of the Republic elected on the basis of the first vote who has received two thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament. If the first vote was unsuccessful, a second vote shall be held. It is the President of the Republic elected on the basis of the second vote who, regardless of the number of voters, has received the most valid votes. If the second vote fails, a new election shall be held on the basis of repeated nomination. The Parliament elects the President of the Republic by secret ballot for five years. The process of secret voting is as follows: Members can take over the ballot paper on the Danube corridor in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I ask you to use the polling booths at the end of the corridor during the vote. Please place your nomination on the ballot box next to the candidate's name. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to briefly explain the rules of the vote, and I would kindly ask my fellow Members to listen to this in their place.
u2017-03-13-28	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed to be only what was cast on the candidate on the ballot paper, with two incisive lines placed in a square next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that has not been cast on the official ballot paper is null; the one with the stamp missing; and if the voter takes over the ballot paper, but does not throw it into the ballot box. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2017-03-13-29	Dear House, During the voting period, only Members or members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I declare that 40 minutes are available for the cast of votes, so it is possible to do so by 11:00. Dear Parliament, Now, for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation, I'm ordering a 1 hour 20-minute recess. Break: 10.20 - 11.46 [[President: László Kövér notaries: József Móring Attila and István Szávay]]
u2017-03-13-30	Dear Parliament, Again, welcome our guests. I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work and concluded that there has been no event affecting the validity of the vote. 175 Members took part in the secret vote. 175 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: there was no invalid vote, the number of valid votes is 175. On the basis of the count of the valid votes, Mr János Áder voted for 131 representatives, and Mr László Majtényi had 44 representatives vote for him. Dear Parliament, Article 11 (3) of the Fundamental Law states that it is the President of the Republic, elected on the basis of the first vote, who has received the votes of two thirds of the Members of Parliament, i.e. 133 Members. In view of this, the notaries found that the secret vote was valid but ineffective. In accordance with Article 11 ( 4) of the Fundamental Law, a second vote shall be held on the basis of which the President-elect shall receive the most valid votes, regardless of the number of voters. The second vote shall not be preceded by a new nomination. I remind you that the rules of the secret vote are unchanged. During the voting period, only members of a representative or a working group involved in voting shall be allowed to stay in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I announce that 40 minutes are available for the cast of votes, so it is possible to do so for 12 hours 28 minutes. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a recess of 1 hour and 20 minutes for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation. (Sunning: 11.48 - 13.15) President: László Kövér notaries: József Móring Attila and István Szávay)
u2017-03-13-31	Dear Parliament, Again, welcome our guests. I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. It concluded that no event had taken place affecting the validity of the vote. 170 Members took part in the secret vote. 170 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: there was no invalid vote, the number of valid votes is 170. On the basis of the count of the valid votes, Mr János Áder voted for 131 representatives and Mr László Majtényi for 39 representatives. On this basis, the notaries concluded that the election of the President of the Republic was valid and effective. Dear House, I'll let you know about the Parliament's resolution. Under Article 10 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly elects Dr. János Áder as President of the Republic with effect from 10 May 2017. [[A long applause in the pro-government benches. The pro-government representatives are standing up and applauding. A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dr. János Áder is elected President of the Republic on 10 May 2017. (Long applause in the pro-government benches. - Government representatives are standing up and applauding. - A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP. ) This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. János Áder on his re-election as President of the Republic. I wish you a successful job and good luck. At the same time, I declare that the elected President of the Republic will take his oath at a later meeting of the National Assembly before taking office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President-elect will receive congratulations in the box. I thank our guests for their participation. I am now ordering a 15-minute recess, and the Parliament will then continue its work. (Sunning: 13.17 - 13.33) President: István Jakab Tickets: Attila Móring József and Dezső Gyelős)
u2017-03-13-32	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. We continue our work with oral questions and answers. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why hasn't everything been done to avoid measles epidemics? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, My question is justified, in my opinion, because we must have serious consequences if the situation does not change. As we know, the macoon hospital is already in lockdown, and cases should be prevented or treated in Hodmezővásárhely. Dear Secretary of State, It is clear that the news of this epidemic has not arrived in our country overnight. In Romania, the first news was released in spring 2016 that there was a massive threat and a risk of infection, so I think that there would have been plenty of time to prepare. Dear House, The exchange of letters between one of the resident surgeons of the hospital in Hódmezővásárhely and the head of the National Epidemiology Centre is very important. The practitioner claims that in Hódmezővásárhely the staff did not receive the preventive vaccinations and did not receive protective equipment, although this would be mandatory. The headmistress's answer was that everything was okay. It's just that this practicing doctor was so impertinent that he wrote it back, nothing is right, because there are rules that should be followed. I would also like to say that there are doubts about the current government activity on the melting and restructuring of health institutions, because it is very clear that there is a lack of real organisational and professional strength to address the national epidemic threat. My question, therefore, is what Mr President has already said, Mr Secretary: why not do everything in your power to prevent a more serious situation? Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-03-13-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In relation to the cases introduced from Romania, eight European countries developed a small epidemic: Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom, Austria, Sweden, Hungary, France and Belgium. I do not know whether the rest of the countries are written at the expense of the Hungarian background institution structure, too, by the honourable Member, that these diseases have also occurred there. I think we should thank everyone who worked either in the hospital or in the government offices and responded immediately. Hungary has a good ability, as the vaccination against measles is 98 percent in Hungary, and over 95 percent is no longer susceptible to a country, and for a long period there was no measles epidemic in Hungary, and here in the middle of February - it was subsequently certified - this epidemic was introduced from Romania. An immediate action plan has been drawn up, honourable Member, concerning workers in the emergency care department of the Maco hospital, concerning hospital staff, people living in the area. In order to control the epidemic, the Maco hospital, the public health professionals of the Government Office, took all the measures provided for in the National Officer's Plan of Action. So all the measures that could happen at this time have been taken, and they have proved to be effective. Therefore, the events are fully controlled as described in the different protocols. And the fact that this can happen everywhere, honourable Member, no matter how advanced the prevention system is, however immediate the measures are, proves that this has occurred in a total of eight European countries, I believe that each has an advanced epidemiological care system, but this has happened elsewhere. The important thing was that we dealt with the case immediately in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-13-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs has the floor.
u2017-03-13-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, According to the news, the government would introduce a new operating model in the field of public catering, i.e. set up a new state coordination organisation, which would be responsible for this task nationwide, in line with the model of waste management. The reasons for communication are examples of the effectiveness of nationalisation of garbage shipments. However, it is a regrettable fact that the population and the local authorities could not really perceive this sweeping success, since NHKV Zrt. has been inoperative for many months after its formation. In government plans, there is a clear promise that after nationalisation there will be cheaper and better quality catering, since this service can only be provided on a non-profit basis. However, this seems to be contradicted by the fact that, in the 2017 Finance Act, a new tightening is established, that, if a small municipality does not have a separate cooking kitchen and the public catering is resolved by the municipality with a purchased service, the contracting party, i.e. the other local government or the other local government's budgetary body, may not be a supplier. Dear Minister, I'm asking you, what are the real government plans for mass catering? Can it be expected that this task will also be taken away from the municipalities, as well as a key task for the municipalities, and that the aim would really be to take down a 150 billion-dollar market? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-39	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, To answer your question briefly: such a purpose, which you have raised in your question, is not for the Hungarian State. One and a half million people eat meals daily in Hungary, there are one million children, and the parents pay 40 billion forints for the children, and the Hungarian state supports the children by 70 billion, and many of the children, as the figures show, participate in the public catering in a state-supported form. I think the quality of nutrition is a key issue for everyone. The government has undertaken to provide children in kindergarten and then secondary school students in an emerging system, to provide them with warm food, and to continuously increase the amount of money spent in the budget. What may be the case after the hospitals were owned by the state, the schools were partly owned by the state, or any school that might have been involved in public operations, and whether the Hungarian state could act as a customer. There is no question that the service providers would be affected in any way by the possible centralisation of the customer position of the Hungarian State, on which there is no government decision. [[13.40]] What does that mean? This may mean that the Hungarian State may be ready to order the public catering from the same municipal companies as those who are now ordered to receive the public catering. What effect could this have? It may have a positive impact primarily on quality, and on the other hand, let us not forget that the question was not raised on the side of public catering, but on the raw material side that was included in the public catering. The government's aim is to provide Hungarian agricultural products and Hungarian food industry with an opportunity within the framework of Hungarian public catering. If the state is the customer and the central state is the customer, then we may have the opportunity to do so. If the State is not the customer and is not centralised, it is difficult to take into account such national or national considerations. Our possible decision will not affect those involved in mass catering activities. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-40	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. Who pays Paks II's cost overrun? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-03-13-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask three questions in one on the Paks enlargement. The fact that nuclear power plants are built in Europe has never been able to keep up either the deadline or the costs. Usually there'll be two or three times the bill at the end of the deal, and the deadlines have been delayed. Hungary is already characterised by exceeding the different cost limits. Here's the Tide Swimming Pool, it's six times more expensive; the Puskás Stadium has doubled before the beginning; there's the Roman coast dam: it's worth 2.5 billion, now it's 18 billion. So this is also a kind of Hungaricum that everything in Hungary costs more than it is planned and, of course, there is also a particular prolonged and cost-surpassing feature of the nuclear industry. My first question is that, in fact, this 12.5 billion that we are constantly discussing in euro, if you go beyond that, Minister, you will pay the extra costs. Tell me that the treaty that we have not been able to recognize in every detail here in the Hungarian Parliament, for example in the National Security Committee... - who will pay that surplus if this HUF 12.5 billion is paid We're gonna go over it? Either the Hungarian state, that means the taxpayers or the Rosatom. A or B, Minister, which is the answer? According to the Brussels communication - they could see the contract, because it is a project that they know more about both in Moscow and in Brussels than we do in Budapest - they said that the Hungarian taxpayers will. Is that so, Minister? My other question concerns what should be included in this 12.5 billion. Are there so-called related equipment, cooling water channel, transformer station, wiring system, backup power plant - should this be included in this 12.5 billion or not? My third question is that we have heard from the press that we would like to spend 200 billion forints on the Paks expansion this year, which we know is that the enlargement process would in principle start in 2018. What exactly would you like to spend 200 billion forints on? I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-03-13-42	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-43	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, two minutes are not suitable for a full answer to three questions, but I will try to do so. As known to my fellow Members, the Russian-Hungarian nuclear agreement concluded on 14 January 2014 was approved by the Hungarian Parliament in March 2014. Details of this are known to all my fellow Members. The aim is to implement national energy policy 2010-14. Then Parliament supported the maintenance of nuclear capacity by an overwhelming majority, which will also represent 50% of the current Hungarian electricity consumption. According to every economic expert, Brussels and international economic experts, Hungary has also been well discussed. As a result of the negotiation, a fixed, ready-to-key nuclear power plant will be built. We will pay EUR 12.5 billion, no matter how much more it costs the Russians. So Hungary does not take any extra costs, for 12.5 billion we have to get a turnkey power plant. That's the answer to your first question. To your second question: obviously, the remaining 55 seconds are not suitable for illuminating the system of illegal state aid to my fellow Members, I assume, everyone is familiar with it. Brussels has found only one thing that a market investor, if built on a market basis by the nuclear power plant and not by the Hungarian State, could expect a return. Compared to this, the Hungarian State expects 1 percent less return, including the cost of building the entire power plant, the cost of credit, the cost of installation, the cost of nuclear fuel, the cost of transportation and handling and the cost of maintenance. Above all, according to the Commission's calculations, Hungary will make around 2% of its profits. The European Commission said that a market investor would be satisfied with a profit of 4-5 percent. So we're talking about profits all the time. There's no loss. And the technical equipment you mentioned is included in the implementation according to the contract. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-44	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: å Is Hungary and Slovakia closer together? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, on 1 March, another significant step was taken in the field of Hungarian-Slovak economic cooperation: Minister Péter Szijjártó and his Slovak partner signed the Treaty on the construction of cross-border power lines in Bratislava. If we look back over the past years, we can safely say that we have taken great steps with our northern neighbour, for example, between Vecsés and Nagykürtös, we have established an interconnector between gas networks, we have rebuilt bridges on Ipoly, we have operated a ferry boat along the Island, and we have built roads between the settlements on both sides of the border. Of course, I cannot ignore the fact that in my constituency the citizens of Abaúj-Zemplén were also involved in uplifting moments when, for example, we handed over the Hernád Bridge in Abaújvár, or when the construction of the first section of the M30 highway connecting Kassa with Miskolc began. The common denominator of these developments is to make it easier for us to communicate with our natural allies and partners, thus improving the situation in disadvantaged border areas. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we still have a lot to do in the development of Hungarian-Slovak relations. I mention just a few important things: for example, we need to make our common border interoperable, improve infrastructure and encourage further cooperation between actors at different levels, whether local or social organisations, local authorities or economic operators. That is why, with all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State what improvements are expected in the near future in order to improve relations between Hungary and Slovakia. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-03-13-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Mikola István. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-13-47	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to express my agreement on the priority importance of Hungarian-Slovak relations and the positive trends that have started in recent years. The intensive political dialogue between Hungary and Slovakia has continued in recent years, and constructive Hungarian-Slovak action plays a crucial role within the framework of closer and more successful cooperation in Visegrád. The key element of this wide-ranging bilateral relationship is the continuation of the implementation of joint energy and transport projects. Infrastructure developments such as the Hungarian-Slovak gas cross-border pipeline and the expansion of the capacity of the Slovak-Hungarian oil pipeline contribute significantly to the security of supply of both countries. The latest example is the signature of the Intercompany Contract between Bős, Gönyű, Nagygyőrd and Sajóivánka, Rimazombat on 1 March, in which I was personally present on behalf of the Hungarian government. [[13.50]] The development of the motorway between M15, D2 Rajka and Oroszvár deserves to be highlighted among the transport projects carried out by the joint effort. In the coming years we will also establish a new fast-track link between M30, R4 Miskolc and Košice, and until 2019 we will build a new bridge between Komárom and Révkomárom. With regard to small-scale road connections, on the basis of a declaration of intent signed by the prime ministers, we plan to implement ten cross-border road connections, including ferry and numerous Ipoly bridges, as well as land connections, using EU Interreg programme resources. Hungary remains committed to developing cross-border transport relations. We continue to expect the relevant committees of Parliament and Members to cooperate in this effort. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-48	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: å Do you think it is acceptable that senior students are unable to prepare for graduation in January? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is competent according to the subject, to answer the question at the request of Minister Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, From 1 September 2016, the Fidesz government transformed vocational secondary schools into vocational schools and vocational schools into vocational secondary schools. In just six months since the system was set up, only this transformation failed as much as the total number of educational initiatives on the right. This year is the first high school graduate year, which is also required to graduate from a complex professional subject. However, the requirements were only available to students at the end of last year, exactly on December 28th, a few months before graduation in May. Even in January, 11th grade kids don't know what kind of requirements they're gonna graduate from in less than a year. So you should know the answers to questions that do not exist, which is also referred to in the title of my question, but the students may have a future on these questions, and more than 30,000 students depend on their future because of your failure. The Commissioner for Educational Rights and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights have also said that there has been a clear legal disadvantage and a breach of rights for these children and these students. In 2011, you announced that there would be such a graduation, and in 13 you managed to create the master's plans, and by Christmas 16 you managed to implement the output requirements. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you if you can answer any questions you haven't been asked. I would also like to ask how you intend to remedy the omission and the infringement, how the government intends to remedy it. Finally, do you think it's acceptable that even at Christmas students didn't know what they were graduating from? Thank you for your answer.
u2017-03-13-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to disprove the thoughts that you have formulated, since the VET and the Public Education Act, as you mentioned at the end of the drafting of your question, contain from 2012 the provisions under which their studies will be compulsory for the students of the 9th grade, who will be attending vocational secondary school today, and for the other students the sectoral and vocational graduation exam will be mandatory. The new graduation exam is based on the curriculum of the VET framework curricula introduced in 2013, according to which students have been studying since September 2013. Thus, for the fourth year of the students who started their 12th grade studies in 2013, they will learn what they will graduate from at the end of the academic year. Based on the educational material of the VET Master Plans issued in 2013, maturity requirements should not lead students to an unexpected, unknown situation, nor require new or unknown exam content which they could not have acquired during their studies. Since the beginning of September 2016, students have had the opportunity to think about choosing a middle or higher level of professional qualifications in the light of the emerging circumstances. Model items and sample tasks have been published for all sectors during the autumn to help teachers and learners prepare. Therefore, on the basis of previous ones, both questions and possible answers are available for preparation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The renewed institutional system, the new forms of training, also indicate that there has been a significant change and improvement in vocational training. This requires work from all participants, but vocational training must respond quickly and effectively to urgent economic needs and the lack of skilled labour. Change, change, is always a difficult step, and usually at the initial stage it can encounter and encounter resistance and difficulties. However, if we recognise the new opportunities provided by change beyond these, we can work together to open up new dimensions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-52	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence a question: at the official HM event they spoke about the Soviet army that was released. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár should take the floor.
u2017-03-13-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Exactly a month ago, on the Bloodfield, the Department of Social Relations of the Ministry of Defence organized a commemoration for the Memorial of the Voluntary Regiment of Buda. At the event commemorating Hungarian soldiers who died in an alliance with the Soviets, Brigadier General István Filótás said in his memorial speech: 72 years ago Budapest was liberated exactly on this day, and it was a long and bitter journey to liberation. In other words, he consistently used the term liberation. In my view, 27 years after the so-called regime change, it is particularly offensive and grotesque to talk about liberation in this case, as we know that the attackers did not spare the country or the Hungarian people. Nowadays, it is well known that Soviet troops systematically robbed and plundered our capital and the countryside. By the way, the Soviet Union saw Hungary as a losing, defeated, occupied country. This is also demonstrated by the fact that the Red Soldiers involved in the battles in Budapest were rewarded with a medal for the reception of Budapest. Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that there are about 100,000 women and women who have been raped by them. Those who suffered such suffering had to live in humiliation, shame, not to mention sexual illness, and countless abortions. So the so-called liberation soon became a specific slumber, followed by the concrete occupation. It is a historical fact that the liberated Russian troops left our country only 45 years later, in 1991. Thus, under the shadow of the Soviet bayonets, the lowest system of our history, the communist dictatorship, could develop in our country. That's how they could drag tens of thousands into the gulag, so they could chase religion and continue the line for a long time. That's what Brigadier Philota said liberation was 72 years ago. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how he appreciates what he has said. Do you think it's appropriate to give such a speech at a department of the Ministry of Defence? Do you also believe that 72 years ago the Soviets liberated Hungary? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Vargha. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reject the false allegations in your question, and I would also like to reject the procedure, because as a representative, you are putting a Hungarian military general on display, who is neither a public figure nor a public defender under the circumstances. You take quotes out of a speech for your own sake and inexactly, and you draw wrong conclusions from that. The exact subpoena of a speech is very important, especially important in the presentation of historical events during which the Hungarians suffered a great deal. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] After all, Hungary's German occupation was followed by the Soviet occupation of Hungary, one terrorist replaced the other, although in the time in question, in the winter of 44-45 Hungarian people, besides the desire for peace, the hope of human and state independence and independence was still there. On the occasion of the completion of the war of the Second World War in Budapest, the Ministry of Defence commemorates the soldiers who died on enemy sites with military respect on the same day each year. We do this in obedience to the moral command that a dead soldier is no longer an enemy, the dead soldier must be buried and his memory preserved. The sentence in question, which you quote inexactly, was said in the speech:. 72 years ago, precisely on this day, Budapest was released from the German occupation and the Arrow Terror. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.00]] So it's wrong to conclude what you're getting is that the general was talking about the liberating Soviet army. Please quote exactly in the future and proceed with greater caution before asking your question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-56	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, How many more children's lives will be ruined in front of us while the government is willing to act? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-03-13-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Let me begin with a sad story about this speech. Three weeks ago, the court placed the 11 - year - old girl at the father's house, whose statement led to two prior investigations into the father for sexual abuse of the child. The court's decision is justified by the fact that the lack of contact, which they believe is the mother's fault, violates the child's interest. The little girl's been at the dad's for two weeks. Since then, he hasn't given life signs of himself, he hasn't been to school, and his address has been changed. Your mother doesn't even know if she's alive. Last year, I asked a question here in Parliament as to why the best interests of children do not prevail in this visitation. At the time, Minister of State said that the government was not planning to change the practice of guardianship which, even in the child's interest, forces relations with a separate parent. Now there's a proven concept for that, it's called a forced vision. I've placed a record of this phenomenon on your desk, I've handed over to every representative in this room a piece of paper to show you exactly what it is to be forced to see. In short and succinctly, this is the form of communication when the child is forced to meet the abusive parent. When the child rejects this, the mother is automatically blamed, according to the practices I know, and is fined from 5 thousand to half a million forints, and they threaten to take the child away from them all over Hungary, as they otherwise saw in the example. So, unfortunately, official practice is everything, but it's not child-friendly. My own experience shows that they simply do not examine why the child does not want to meet the other parent, how this forced relationship affects the child at all, and if there is any suspicion of abuse, they simply do not investigate it thoroughly. In practice, we can say that there is a situation in Hungary today that the right of access of the parent is above the interests of the child. I think we need to change that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Mr. Secretary of State. No child should be forced to communicate. My question is when the government will move before they ruin the lives of more children. The Istanbul Convention would also provide a solution to this. When are we gonna ratify it?
u2017-03-13-58	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You are here to address the government, but these are all individual cases, individual court cases, in which obviously there are cases where the right decision is made, and sometimes when the wrong decision is made. I would not say that this is a mistake in the laws, as it is in the laws, contrary to what the congresswoman said that the child's interests are the priority. The court and before the guardianship must act in the best interests of the child, which is best for the child, for the healthy physical and mental development of the child, a decision must be made. The child must be placed in the position where, in this unfortunate and difficult situation - because it is difficult to make a decision here - the child is better able to develop physically and spiritually and must be able to see the person who facilitates this. If a court does not make that decision, it makes a wrong decision, it makes a decision against the law, it decides by breaking the law that if it adopts rules of visitation which are detrimental to the child, and it violates the law even if it places it with the parent with whom the child is placed would be detrimental. Social services, government agencies, are constantly examining whether children are in good circumstances, constantly reviewing and, where appropriate, reviewing the rules of visitation. It is very sad that these are cases where parents do not cooperate with one another and do not act in the interest of the child, but both the court and the guardianship try to put the child's interests first and act accordingly. Obviously, this is possible along the lines of continuous training and further training. It is possible, therefore, that in March 2017 we held a training course for workers in this sector to process this topic, where they learned both the professional protocols and the important detailed rules for clarifying the facts as well as the related guardianship tasks, so that they can take into account and apply precisely the most modern methods possible when deciding on child placement and visitation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-60	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What does the Government do for the development of ecotourism in Békés county? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The area of the Körös-Maros National Park includes the county of Békés, half of the county of Csongrád east of Tisza, as well as the cross-border parts of the Körös-ártér and the Dévaványai-Ecseg wilderness of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county. The landscapes with unique features and specific features have a variety of areas rich in natural values, which are important from an ecotourism point of view. It is a matter of national importance to protect plant and animal species that are exclusively bred here in Hungary, or the main part of their population is located in the territory of the national park. From the flora, such is the complimentary sage or Volgamenti herics. The unique natural image of the landscape is the seed flower that opens in a mass in the autumn. In addition to the plants, several rare species live here, the large Szikibago moth, the canopy scaly snail, the atratarget cincér, the steppe butterfly, and the Bustards, whose most viable population in our country lives in the northern part of Békés county. The water habitats of the Ramsari Convention areas, such as the White Lake Kardoskút and the Biharugra fish lakes, also play a significant role in international bird migration. Because of the noble bird of the Hungarian deserts, the loss of their habitat and the decline in their population, our value is highly protected. Protecting the domestic population is an important task for the survival of the world population of the species, and it is in the common interest and responsibility of all of us. From an eco-tourist point of view, the population of Bustards living in the northern part of the county of Békés was always the largest stock in the Carpathian Basin, and the number of Bustards exceeding five hundred persons currently accounts for more than one third of the domestic population. In 1975, the management and management of the National Park Board of Körös-Maros started the protection of hostages in Dévaványa, which led to an increase in the population of the Bustards in the region. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you what the government is doing for the development of ecotourism in Békés County. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2017-03-13-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The way to preserve our natural heritage is through its presentation. In protected natural areas, national park directorates operate a number of demonstration sites, ecotourism and environmental education facilities. Currently, more than 800 ecotourism education activities are carried out in Hungary, out of which 343 are maintained by a board of directors. The National Park Directorate Körös-Maros started to develop ecotourism programmes immediately after its establishment in 1997. An important milestone was the establishment of the Visitor Centre in Körösvölgy in Szarvas in 2003 and the renovated and expanded Réhely Visitor Centre in Dévavány. There are currently seven educational paths in the management of the board. Bihari Bird Castle opened its doors in 2007. The number of registered visitors is increasing year after year thanks to the continuous development of programmes and infrastructure; compared to the 15 thousand registered in 2005, it exceeded 62 thousand in 2016. The complex tourism development of the Körösvölgy Visitor Centre and Animal Park comes from a net EU grant of HUF 330 million. The project includes an exhibition that guides the visitor to the natural and cultural historical values of South Tiszaból. A canopy of 130 meters long will be built and the rest will be built. This year, a project will start from nearly HUF 224 million KEOP source, the development of the infrastructure of the Visitor Centre in Réhely, as well as the presentation of Natura 2000 sites and marking species, especially the highly protected ones. During the next period, the Board of Directors can spend HUF 3 billion on direct conservation purposes under ten projects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[14.10]]
u2017-03-13-64	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Horváth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Do you want to benefit from sport? It's an address. Congressman Imre Horváth has the floor.
u2017-03-13-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, You have announced 250 million HUF to finance small and medium-sized sports clubs, but you will spend 100 million HUF of this amount on sports advertising, marketing advice and other similar tasks. The organisation of this work will be supported by regional staff, who will assist in distributing the remaining HUF 150 million. In addition, it will be an important and high priority to select talented athletes and to take care of their talents in order to facilitate the training of replacements. However, there is a fear that party soldiers will decide in this system as well. Thus, it is likely that the organisations that they decide to use this support for the selection of talented athletes will receive support, so you will decide who will be talented and who will not. We hope that you will not expect to pay for the constitutional costs here at least. With respect to the above, I ask the Secretary of State: how do you guarantee that these amounts will be assessed on an objective basis? Why is it necessary to provide marketing advice to small sports organisations? How do you plan to control the use of these amounts? Can you promise that politics will not decide who is talented and who isn't? Thank you very much.
u2017-03-13-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, I reject your accusations, and the facts deny that. You say that it is on a political basis. The entire selection mechanism and decision-making mechanism were developed together with the National Association of Sports Associations. You say that the support is political, while Szeged and Salgótarján also receive these grants. I do not quite understand how you say this, honourable Member, if the Szeged people and Salgótarjánians of the 19 county-righted urban applications submitted receive them as well as any other party-debted ones. Obviously, what is the mayor of which settlement is a gift, but the settlement receives the support, so the Szegedians and the Salgótarjáns will benefit from it. Effectiveness is the only standard for us in sport and competition, which is why we are launching this support programme. We believe that every forint we invest in sports is actually invested in the future of the nation. The local, integrated sports and association program, referred to by you, supports leisure sports as well as the expansion of small and medium sports associations. Forints 100 million is the implementation support for recreational sports, and another HUF 150 million is the cost of re-education, selection of talent, talent management, organisation of recruiting events and increased work for sports professionals, and even this HUF 150 million includes entry fees. As I mentioned earlier, the decision mechanism is fully developed with the National Association of Sports Associations, and 3 percent of the amount of support can be spent on total communication costs. 10 per cent can be used if the communication activity is related to the promotion of the programme, so I believe that this strict control of the use of the resource, clean targets and transparent treatment are all guarantee elements. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-13-68	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: å Why do you stand by and watch our birds destroy avian flu? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks and months, a large number of outbreaks of avian influenza have been reported all over the country, but a few weeks ago, there have been reports of dead or dying wild birds, swan and strays from several locations, mostly the territory of Pest County, several districts of Budapest. Civil society organisations and individuals have also consistently indicated that their announcements towards public bodies have been constantly hit by walls. Even though they were looking for the National Food Safety Agency, all they could say was that the body should be collected by the applicant, the applicant, and bring to them for examination. The Duna-Ipoly National Park Directorate also tried to pass on responsibility for the collection, although some corpses were subsequently collected and handed over to the Nebih. However, none of the organisations were able to make a firm statement on who was responsible, who should be sought, who should be called, who could immediately go out and collect otherwise highly contagious carcasses. Let us not forget, Mr Secretary of State, that we are talking about a virus that is very easy to spread, which has many mutated types, including one that is dangerous to humans and may even be fatal. The wildlife is also severely decimated by the disease, which, unfortunately, is also due to this unorganization, since for days there are bodies or dying birds consumed by predators or scavengers, and they themselves are infected and passed on the disease. Wild birds and domestic birds can easily be infected, which can and has caused serious damage, as we have seen, in the domestic population, so a large number of domestic birds have been killed in this virus in recent weeks and months. Jobbik finds it sad and outrageous to have such a problem in 2017 with the operation of such a central number, where prepared people receive the announcement, which they transmit to the competent body, and their rapid action could eliminate the threat and prevent further rapid spread of the virus. I look forward to your reply, Mr Secretary of State, as to why this dilettantism is and what the government is doing to prevent it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You asked me that question a month ago, which is why I need to correct what you said in several places. The current epidemic of avian influenza in Europe has reached its highest unprecedented proportions, the virus has already been detected in 27 European countries from wild birds and has caused outbreaks in poultry and captive wild birds in 21 countries. In Hungary, the last outbreak involving poultry was on 25 February 2017, while the epidemic continued to rage in Europe. More than 400 outbreaks have been reported in France. It is important to stress that the current outbreak of the H5N8 virus strain has not caused any related human disease in Europe since the first outbreak. The reduction of the flocks of wild birds is not possible and cannot be a goal in view of the protected species living in and passing through our country, so the most important task is to protect our poultry from wild birds. I would like to inform the honourable Member that, contrary to his information, Nébih also operates a central customer service number and a free green number, where prepared staff are available to the notifiers, and it is also possible to report through a central electronic address. The veterinary authority shall, depending on its capacity, arrange as soon as possible for the collection of bird corpses and shall be responsible for the veterinary activities of the district offices in the area, who shall act in accordance with the central instructions in such cases. I would also like to inform the Honourable Parliament that since the outbreak of the Avian influenza, experts from the Veterinary Service have been working too hard to eradicate the disease, doing so for the Hungarian people and the Hungarian poultry sector. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-72	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Szél Bernadett and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. First decide, then ask questions? How will 9th grade primary school be successful? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-03-13-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government decided to introduce a 9-year primary school, a transitional year between the preschool and the first grade of primary school. According to LMP, the government still does not understand what the problem is and why this idea will be a failure as well as many of their previous ideas. Students' performance is deteriorating, there is a problem with acquiring basic skills. Kids don't learn to write, read, understand lyrics, count. The educational material that exerts too much lexical knowledge does not allow these most important skills to be exercised or strengthened. That's why performances are getting worse. [[14.20]] It may be a good course for the 9th grade, but we think it's not in this form. There is no separation between the school structure and the matter of the curriculum from the others. These problems can only be helped in a common system. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure how many classes there are, what and how to teach, reduce the curriculum and return the students' childhood, improve the mobility and position of teachers at the same time, and correct school conditions. Plus a year alone is no good. It doesn't lead the government to suddenly pull the idea of a 9th grade primary school out of the hat again. Dear Secretary of State, Can't we start from scratch? Wouldn't it be possible for all the actors in public to figure out how to steer the education system out of this bankruptcy he's in right now? First they decide and then they ask? First they announce that there's gonna be a 9-year primary school, and then they figure out exactly how this is gonna work out? How will this be successful, Mr. Secretary? Answer that, please.
u2017-03-13-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-13-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would argue with your first three words that the government has decided on this issue. The government has not made a final decision on this. He supported this direction. The agricultural round table, I understand, began to discuss it on 7 March. This was mentioned earlier, not the first time the 9th grade school came up. We have been talking about this in various forums for at least two years. All existing actors who are able to engage in dialogue and are willing to sit down with the government have been invited to the public education round table to discuss this issue. So the government has actually decided to launch a professional dialogue on this subject, along with a much more serious, elaborate form, since LMP has already opposed everything and everything in Parliament here, but a year or two ago you were talking about the overload of students. With regard to student overload, the government has a number of proposals for solutions. One of them is the review of the National Basic Training Plan, which is also taking place in parallel, which aims to place emphasis on the main parts of the National Basic Training Plan. This also takes place in a completely transparent and public manner. The other direction to reduce the daily burden on students is the direction of the 9th grade primary school, which, according to the most supported idea, would include an additional year's course between kindergarten and primary school. You also spoke about the need to strengthen basic skills. This kind of form, this kind of pre-first class or transition class, would serve precisely to strengthen these basic skills, and to reduce the social differences that one student or another comes to school with, which is obviously to be reduced by compulsory kindergartening from the age of 3. And this preparatory class could help, help to make sure that the disadvantage, the difference that students have, is not preserved in the education system. So we will continue this discussion, and, of course, we will be very fond of all the professional players. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-76	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Border inspection: Are the conditions appropriate for dealing with the possible increase in migratory pressure? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has so far demonstrated its ability to protect its citizens. It does not allow room for Brussels' will to install illegal immigrants or threats to terrorist networks. Given recent acts of terrorism and the escalation of the migration crisis, it is important to review the resources at our disposal and to provide opportunities for rapid, effective and qualitative action. We see that the police have taken all necessary measures to ensure the protection of Hungary and the external borders of the European Union and to reduce uncontrolled illegal migration. With the introduction of a three-pillar system consisting of the temporary safety border closure, special legislative provisions and the protection of the state border, the protection of Hungary's state borders is ensured. Nevertheless, we still cannot sit back and every day must be done to ensure that the country's safety remains guaranteed. Illegal migration also places a heavy burden on the police and on the capacities of foreign police authorities, which can sometimes only be dealt with by extraordinary measures. As spring comes, the situation is increasing at the southern border of Hungary. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State whether the staff is prepared to carry out border protection tasks. Are the conditions appropriate to deal with increasing migratory pressure? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-13-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-13-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, From the beginning, since the start of the migration crisis, the Government of Hungary has declared that the external borders must be protected and that all countries must protect their external borders. Economic immigrants and real refugees should be separated outside the borders of the European Union and these hotspots should be established outside the borders of the European Union. We have not changed this position since then, and Hungary is an example of how these tasks should be carried out. Hungary's Government also provides all conditions in Hungary so that the Hungarian police, the Hungarian border police, the Hungarian border fighters, the Hungarian army and the Hungarian soldiers can protect, effectively defend the southern border of Hungary and at the same time the border of the European Union, and protect the citizens of the European Union. As you said, we've created a triple defense. We've created physical protection, the fence, we've created living protection, and we've created legal protection. This was adopted in September 2015 by Parliament and the government. This triple protection has worked, it works effectively, but more must always be done to ensure that they are successful and effective on the border, and in the first step, the government decided to increase the number of border hunting units by 3,000. The recruitment, training and training of this number are in progress, we will ensure the construction of the second fence, it has also begun, and last week Parliament voted on the tightening of the legal border closure, as a result of which, if this law enters into force, illegal immigrants cannot enter the territory of Hungary. Their application shall be lodged in the transit zone and shall remain there until the request has been examined by the authorities. Hungary therefore provides all conditions in order to ensure that staff effectively protect Hungary and Hungarian citizens. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-13-80	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. When will an investigation be launched? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2017-03-13-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We've received disturbing photos and news of the Bátonyterény. That is why I am asking you, the Secretary of State of the Ministry responsible for this area, to reassure us. Terenye Kft. is located in the industrial park of Bátonyterenye, which started operations in the summer of 2015 with significant EU support. The company belongs to Tibor Garancsi. Its main activity is bio-waste processing. Of course, this would not bother the people living in the Bátony terenyénye, but in recent years we know that a new production line has been set up, as a result of which, at the beginning of February, the beautiful snowy landscape was covered by yellow dust in the vicinity of the plant, which is found to be worrying by residents in the area. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State whether they will launch an investigation into yellow dust in the air and soil, so that we can reassure the population that there is no pollution or damage to health. After all, this very fine powder can easily cause respiratory distress and impair the quality of life of asthmatic people, especially during the time of smogriado. These pictures looked pretty scary. Therefore, we look forward to a reassuring response that there will be no damage to health in the area of the plant. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-13-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.30]]
u2017-03-13-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would first like to inform the Member that the competent environmental authority, the Salgótarján District Office of the Nógrád County Government Office, has already examined the environmental complaint you raised. According to the environmental register, TRP-Terenye Kft. is engaged in the recycling and processing of wood waste at the site of the Bátony terenyei and holds the air and waste management permit necessary for carrying out the activity. It shall comply with its reporting obligations and the emissions of air pollutants from active point sources shall not exceed the limit specified in the permit on the basis of measurements. In order to investigate the complaint, the regional environmental authority carried out a joint on-the-spot check with the competent disaster management authority on 14 February 2017. The environmental authority concluded that the storage of each waste was inadequate and ordered the proper storage of the waste with immediate effect. The company was obliged to clean areas heavily contaminated with sawdust at the site and in its surroundings without delay. According to the inspection of the Authority, the plant was in compliance with other air purity protection standards. The disaster management authority found the site preparation for the transport of dangerous goods in order, but it revealed deficiencies in the fire control inspection and launched an administrative procedure against the company. It can be seen from the above that the authorities will examine the complaints that have arisen without delay and that they will act in accordance with the legislation to ensure compliance with the requirements, in this case to protect the quality of the environment. I ask Congresswoman to accept my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Because the southern part of Somogy County has been wiped out of government maps, this region still wants to live! Or what infrastructural improvements are intended for one of the most difficult peripheries in our country? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If someone really wants to read horrific horrors, I can recommend to him the analyses of the demographic, economic and social processes of the South Somogy region. Even though the country is full of growing economies around here, only a few of the people who live here feel the benefits of this. Poverty, lack of prospects, can be felt by hand in other parts of our country. The fact that the least industrialised region of the country is South Transdanubia, including the region of South Somogy, can be explained by our lack of infrastructure. However, it is natural that road or rail developments do not automatically solve problems. If there is insufficient emphasis on training, the development of existing industrial parks, the finding of investors who really create jobs, rather than trying to cheat, then all road development will be an expensive investment in prestige. In view of this, it can be said that the road connecting Barcs to Kaposvár and the renovation of the 95 km long road 68 connecting the southern part of the county to the south-western part of Lake Balaton and the M7 cannot be postponed any longer. Similarly, it would be important to develop the motorway between South Somogy and Baranya County Headquarters, Pécs. The public is very confident that the fate of the county's more than 1,700 km long road network will finally be taken seriously by the government, as last year only 39 km has been renovated, and if this trend continues, then there will be nothing left for the settlements here but the start of the countdown and the cutting of the centimeter. I am therefore looking forward to answering the question of what the South Somogy region, which has been deleted from the map, with accountable dates and specific resources. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In recent years, given the situation in the region, the government has made significant improvements on Highway 68. The sections avoiding Nagyatád and Marcalit were completed already in 2014-15, thus relieving the two settlements of the harmful effects of transit traffic. The development of the M60 is also on the agenda, the preparatory tasks are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2014. Within the framework of the national road renewal programme for 2017, we will be renovating the road in Somogy County for about 40 kilometres, and within the framework of the 2014-20 regional and local development operational programme we will be renovating an additional 30 kilometres of side roads. The government is expected to decide on the provision of this year's renovation programme in the coming weeks. According to the road development concept adopted last year, the government decided to implement a number of improvements. In addition to the current 1450 kilometers of motorways, more than 900 kilometers of motorways, motorways or European highways will be built by 2022 from some 2500 billion forints. The Hungarian Public Road Nonprofit Zrt. for five years, he concluded a contract with the State of approximately HUF 400 billion, which will enable him to perform the maintenance and operation tasks of the roads in a more predictable and high-quality way than before in the region you mentioned. Thank you for your attention, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-88	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai and Ikotity István, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:, How does the Fidesz government protect Hungary from the multi-nationals involved in the food industry? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, It is quite obvious to you what is going on in this regard in Europe and Hungary. Hungary's Government, Fidesz-KDNP, has so far invested billions in the trading chains of multinational companies. With a lot of tax reductions, targeted subsidies, concrete EU grants and trainings, it gave the big ones a lot of competitive advantages. The creation of the tramps also destroyed the little ones. So you've pretty much eliminated the smaller units in the food industry that we've had before. Compared to this, there is now a spectacular milieu about what will happen to Hungarian food security, which clearly points to the fact that something is about to happen. They submitted a proposal on which they want to regulate the amount of money they can spend on advertising and the free bus services of the supermarkets for parking, for the number of people who can be admitted. So it seems from the outside that they are actually trying to increase the interest of Sándor Csányi and Lőrinc Mészáros again, that after the little ones have been destroyed, the big ones are being pushed out to make room for these big ones. When it comes to agricultural integration and model farms, it is clear that the billionaires are further supported in the background. My respectful question is how, in your opinion, this measure will serve this specifically, and yet how it will be implemented, if there is a policy of government support that has an opposite effect, after agreeing with the aim and the government's efforts to achieve a higher level of food quality and food security in multinational companies' trading units. In the 2017 tax package, these companies received the biggest discounts and subsidies, so it seems that the Hungarian government is operating with conflicting effects. I respectfully ask Minister what is expected in this case. Will the opportunities for food security and food production ever return to Hungarian producers and food operators? Thank you for the floor.
u2017-03-13-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Minister János Lázár. Minister, I give you the floor.
u2017-03-13-91	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The question of the Member was somewhat eclectic, he asked so many questions, he said so many things at once that it is difficult to choose the point that I am able to answer. This was a strange speech, because, even in the last week, the government has received only criticism to try to involve multinational companies in proportionate public burdens by means of an idea or a proposal and to persuade them to guarantee food quality. Also, most importantly, we protect our consumers and protect our employees. So far, we have been criticised for the proposal and the idea, saying that this is clearly against the interests of multi-company companies. First of all, I would like to say that we have not submitted anything to Parliament, but not even to the government. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister's Office have worked out on several occasions, prepared and now launches a material for social debate to protect consumers' interests against large multi-chains, and how we can protect the workers' interests of tens of thousands of people working there against large multi-chains. I think that on any political side of the Hungarian Parliament, it is worth supporting these two goals in any way, because we are talking about two very important social goals. As far as our work is concerned, Mr President, it was this government that introduced the special retail tax, which we did not fail, but that we had to eliminate for the future. But in order to consolidate Hungary after 2010, multinational companies had to reach into their pockets very seriously. [[14.40]] It was this government that introduced the mallstop and was able to protect it in Brussels. It was this government that introduced that if a multinational wholesale chain, retail chain, food chain, say, loss of money for two years, it would have to complete its activities. And it was this government that set up cartel protection and cartel suspicions in the form of legal protection that prevent these companies from ruling the market and that the country would be vulnerable to them. I've only met a man other than you who has accepted what we've done in this country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-92	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Twice more jobs have been lost than has been created! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the National Employment Service data series, it is practically the case that it accounts for 55 506 jobs in January, which is roughly double, as in the previous year. In 2015 there were 33-34 thousand jobs, in 2016 there were 28-29 thousand jobs, this month, now 55 thousand are kicked from above. The fact is that the problem is even greater when compared with how many new jobs have been created; compared to 55,506, 29,000 new jobs are created. About 52 percent, but the vast majority of this is with state aid, so not in the way generated by the market. In this sense, if we extend the circle a little more, say, a 3- to 4-month time interval, not only in January, but from October to January, then it can be seen that this is practically between negative, i.e. job losses and born jobs, in this period of about 35 thousand people. In fact, the point of the question is that there will be a million new jobs in the economy and in Hungary. How? With statistical magic, of course, it can be shown that more people are employed, less unemployed, that the public works that work abroad, that student employment, that I should stop lining up the story. I just want to say that there's a big problem when they can't even prove that it's better than it was in the previous period in a statistical sense. It would be good if you could finally work on what you promised to do to create jobs in Hungary and the economy and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs here. Unfortunately, that's not what we've been experiencing in the past. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-13-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-13-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I regret to tell you that, as a former professional in the field of employment, you should be aware of the report of the data published by the National Employment Service on a monthly basis. [[Nándor Gúr: Peter, you better sit down. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] The statistical data on the loss of demand shows the number of labour needs and not the number of posts that have been deleted from the register of the NSZFH during that month. Let's see if you can shed any light on the question and the area, how many reasons are behind the deletion - usually there are two reasons. One is that the vacancy has been filled, so the advertisement is deleted from the Employment Service data, so the job has been filled and a new workforce has entered the workplace. The second is that the period of validity of the post advertised has expired. Thus, this indicator does not in any way indicate how many jobs have been lost in our country in the given month, unlike what you were trying to suggest here; rather, that they have filled that job, so someone has found a job for you. In terms of the number of new labour needs, two important things need to be taken into account. This year's January figures show an increase compared to the same period of the previous year, and the same period should always be compared as the number of jobs increased by 3300. The reason why it is appropriate to compare this number with the same month of the previous year - you should also know that - is because seasonality has a huge role in the labour market, so the number of new labour needs is typically lower at the beginning of the year, while it usually increases significantly in spring and summer. And to look at the numbers, because you're usually here puffing your phrases, but I'd like to give you a piece of data. Compared to 2015 in 2016 and 2017, the number of new jobs increased by 24 percent in 2016 and 13 percent in 2017. So I have to tell you that you're in a lot of trouble, and I can see that as long as you have to argue with the facts all the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-96	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. Will there ever be a consequence of institutional failure? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Support for the 2014-2020 programming period from EU funds could be an important driver for our economy and an opportunity for our society to break out. At the beginning of the programming cycle, we saw many anomalies regarding the delay in the calls for proposals for various reasons, and the progress in the evaluation of the calls for proposals was very slow. In relation to these, the government's response was that the new reformed institutional system will solve everything, that the processes will soon accelerate, and that Brussels is the wheel of everything anyway. These explanations seemed to be an explanation a year or two ago rather than an honest admission to the existing problem, but despite this, both opposition parties and the relevant applicants and potential applicants waited patiently. Let's see what's going on today in the fourth year of the cycle. The vast majority of the calls are for funding public institutions, the pace of payments is far below the draft, and the decision-making process remains scandalously slow, opaque, not to mention illegal. With concrete examples, there are currently no applications for rural development programmes on the list of winners available on the official website. Between December 2015 and March 2016, around 70 percent of the applications submitted have not yet been evaluated and no decisions have been taken. To date, no decision has been taken in the case of the prototype development scheme, although the deadline for submission was 29 February 2016, a full year has not been enough to evaluate the applications by the institutional system. I ask the Minister what he intends to do to restore the legality of the evaluation process. What institutional and personal conclusions do you intend to draw from your experience with the evaluation of the last year, when do you intend to upload the winners and statistics of the rural development programme to the official website, and by when will Minister undertake to prepare the evaluations that are now year late and to take decisions on the applications submitted? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Minister János Lázár. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2017-03-13-99	Thank you very much. The first personal consultation, which must be deducted, is to thank the 1800 Hungarian state officials, government officials, who saved Hungary's resources from 2007-13, and that is why we can say in Europe alone that we called down the funds at 106 percent. This was not even 50 percent in the summer of 2013, and according to the European Commission, we were facing a loss of HUF 500 billion. It was thanks to 1,800 government officials that we were able to avoid this situation, thus Hungary was at the top, and the entire source was called down. As regards the specific commitments, ladies and gentlemen, 95 percent of the 2014-20 support framework was announced on 6 March, 92 percent in the rural development programme, and until 31 March 2017, our specific commitment is that all applications will be published and all calls for proposals will be available by 31 March this year. Another concrete commitment is that by the end of 2017, 85% of the available resources will be contracted. Last year, by the way, the contract stock was 4000 billion, now, on 6 March, 4663 billion of the available 8500 billion. I would also like to say that the payout target, Member, is likely to be wrong, because the Hungarian National Bank's forecast was HUF 1500 billion, the expectation of NGM was HUF 1300 billion, and HUF 2000 billion was paid, which is 97% of the planned payment. And by this year, we undertake that the payment amount will be HUF 2200-2700 billion, which will be the largest payment amount since Hungary's membership of the European Union. I would also like to say, Mr President, that if you look at our performance on a pro rata basis, it is 2017 and the 2014-20 accounting is 2022. So this year, all applications will be published, 85 percent will be committed, all will be signed with a commitment by March 2018, and 2200 billion will be paid at least this year. This puts us in the right place in Europe at the moment. I'm sorry it's not enough for you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2017-03-13-100	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office the question arises: doesn't the Government force the mayors to cut trees? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Agriculture Sándor Fazekas, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Zsolt V. Németh will answer the question. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-101	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The government's money-sucking construction fever collects its victims countlessly and unstoppably among the green areas of Budapest and rural areas and trees. In Budapest alone, there are at least 3,000 trees planned so far, and unfortunately public parks are being maimed. The 2009 recommendation of the State Court of Auditors to create a separate framework law and detailed implementing regulation covering green surface management has been ignored; the mandatory tasks of local authorities are defined and the local estates are reformed. Instead, however, the independence of the ministry and authority most affected by the case was removed, so that neither the framework law nor its implementation would jeopardise the unscrupulous implementation of their ideas of casting billions into concrete, and the law on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy was adopted. Thus, the municipalities no longer have a chance to influence a significant proportion of their green areas, while, for example, the green area in the inner districts of Budapest does not reach even 1 sq m/person, compared to the 9 sq m/person recommended by the WHO. Compared to the European capitals, we are also in a particularly bad position. How does it happen when local governments are confronted with their large-scale green-eating plans? Is that an order or a deal? Do you feel the mayors squirming because they have to stand before the population and play the executive role? Are you even interested in public opinion and protest, or just drowning our cities in concrete? When is the framework law requested by the State Audit Office expected? Not when there's nothing left to protect, is it?
u2017-03-13-102	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The importance of urban green surfaces for the government is clear, as is the need to ensure that existing green areas are maintained and that new green surfaces are identified. However, I think it is important to say that the transformation of green surfaces and the cutting of trees cannot be clearly seen as a negative act. Wood cutting may be necessary in the interest of utility maintenance, water management and even nature conservation. In many cases, local authorities are also forced to initiate tree cutting, in many cases the disease, age and risk of fracture of the herd may also be a cause for grubbing up or drastic cutting. Therefore, green surfaces may need to be changed for public parks and public gardens as well. For whatever reason, the transformation, the natural human reaction of the population, is the protest against tree cutting. That is why, in my view, the most important thing is the design of green surfaces. The government provides municipalities with a number of tools to strengthen the provision above the green surfaces. Local municipal structure plans define the elements of the green surface system, in particular public parks and public spaces. Their minimum green surface ratio is required by the government, but local construction regulations can determine a higher proportion. A number of legislation that also deals with urban green spaces is being amended or developed. Among these, I would like to highlight the creation of the genre of the municipal image manual and the municipal image regulation, thus giving the municipalities a new tool to ensure the development and protection of urban green spaces. Based on the above, I can say that the government itself does not undertake aimless, pointless destruction of wood, and therefore does not force the mayors to cut wood. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-13-104	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Can farmers in Kecel and the area in distress count on the government's help? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-13-105	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As my colleague Zoltán Magyar spoke about at the meeting two weeks ago, the situation surrounding a dominant cellar farm in Kecel has put hundreds of families in Kecel and in the area in difficulty. The company's managers have been prosecuted for a tender settlement, and the operation of which seems to be paralyzed. As a result, dozens of workers lose or lose their jobs, and the farmers whose crops have been bought cannot obtain the money they deserve, since only a few payments have been made so far. The farmers are therefore afraid that the company will go bankrupt and the fruit of their work, the purchase price of the grapes bought in the autumn, but not paid, will be wasted. I would add, by the way, that it is the purchase price that has, in many cases, been below the cost price for years and which has not been able to deal with in years. It is part of the situation that we are talking about a serious cellar economy in Kecel and its region, the disappearance of which could also result in a narrowing of market and sales opportunities, not to mention the livelihoods of families working there. There is, therefore, much uncertainty which would be expected to be eliminated by those involved. I would therefore ask the honourable Secretary of State, in his reply, not to mention the rules of liquidation and the order of discharge in the event of bankruptcy or the government's previous measures, but rather whether the government can be relied upon by farmers who lose their jobs and expect legitimate payments. And if the problem happens, do you see a chance for the scenario mentioned by my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, namely that with the help of the state, farmers in the area can take over the company if they fall for it, thus guaranteeing the possibility of further delivery. I look forward to a meaningful and clear answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-13-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State György Czerván. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-13-107	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Central Hungary Cellar Economy Ltd. a tax authority investigation is ongoing against one of its owners. However, this procedure does not affect the legal operation of the company, the fulfilment of its payment obligations; the company's activities have not been suspended. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is a fact that the payment of vine growers has stopped for a while, but the company is not in a bankruptcy situation, it is constantly fulfilling its payment obligations. Based on the information available, there is therefore no reason to believe that the Central Hungary Cellar Economy Ltd. will not pay the purchase price of grapes purchased from wine producers in Kecel and in the area of Kecel. Nor can we at the moment assume that the company is unable to meet its payment obligations, so that the long-term sales opportunities of the vineyard owners would be at risk. Although the Member does not consider it important, a number of government measures have been taken in recent years to serve the interests of winemakers. This includes the decrease in imports of wine year after year, and this positive trend continues this year as well. It is the result of maintaining and applying consistent and rigorous controls that wine products which do not comply with the legislation cannot be brought before consumers. The National Council of Mountains is currently preparing for the regulation of the buying-in of grapes. Within the regulatory framework of the European Union, the National Council of Mountains, as an interbranch organisation, will develop interbranch rules on the form and content of the vine purchase contract. This will make the wine grape market more predictable and orderly for this year's harvest. The positive effects of this will be felt by all vine producers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-13-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Szávay, notary of the Parliament, representative of Jobbik... [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Here it is!]] I'm sorry. This is the result of the change when you have a different screenplay in front of you. Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Hungary recognises and enforces everyone's right to a healthy environment? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor, and I will follow her for my previous slip-up.
u2017-03-13-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the autumn of 2015, in the face of legitimate social outrage, the government finally took action to transport and dispose of thousands of dangerous waste from BVM's Scented Road site. True, by then, five government years had passed, because of their inactivity, the concentration of mercury, arsenic, DDT, Xylol, benzene and many other substances harmful to health in the environment of the population in the area was multiplied by the permitted limit value, up to 22 thousand times for some substances. [[15.00]] Although a government decree has since been drawn up to qualify a strategically important economic operator in liquidation, neither the actual remediation process nor the results of the area have been known, even though the studies show that contamination may have reached 50-60 metres in the groundwater. The public complains. According to a resident lung doctor, chemicals in different forms cause the unbearable smell of chemicals in parts of the Attila József colony. He is also aware, as he writes, that this pollution poses a health risk to the people who live here, to the extent that he believes the affected population may need compensation. No wonder, some studies also found DDT in the Attila József colony, double the limit value, and the Nebih identified eight types of pesticides, including lindane, which was banned 15 years ago and is a particularly dangerous neurotoxin for humans. Mr. Secretary. What concrete steps have been taken since then? When is the total remediation of the area expected? What will it take to delay further the necessary procedures? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-03-13-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, For many times, a question that is not a question to me is in many contexts, and my answer is the most definite yes: the fundamental right to a healthy environment, the enforcement of environmental and nature protection aspects is always considered by the government to be of paramount importance. This is also demonstrated by the steps we have taken so far at the Scented Road site of Chemical Works. Last year, the government shipped and disposed of two and a half thousand tons of hazardous waste left behind. We have solved a problem that the previous governments have done nothing about. This cost HUF 1 billion 661 million, which was prepaid by the state, thus contributing to the right of people living in the area to a healthy environment. Of course, the work has not stopped, pollution eradication is still under way. Until September of this year, contaminated buildings, equipment, tanks will be dismantled and permanently removed. The work being carried out now is an important condition for the continuation of the remediation. At the same time, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, under the special legal rules of the winding-up procedure, it is primarily the liquidation of the environmental burden for Chemicals. The environmental authority has not received a complaint from the public regarding the smell of chemicals, which is almost unbearable, as indicated by the Member. Even during the transport of waste, only background air pollutants from road transport were detected by official measurements. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you are really interested in the state of the environment, you have the opportunity to visit the site in person, the demotor of the Chemical Works offers you the opportunity to view the works at the site. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 15 hours and 4 minutes, and the questions are over. We're moving to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question. ! It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, In the debate on your report, you said, I quote, that we have cleared the Hungarian financial system from the robbers, brokerage companies and financial institutions living in fraudulent robbery. The shadow, ladies and gentlemen, is from the fact that this activity of the Hungarian National Bank, which exposes brokerage fraud, fits into a series of scenarios. This is in line with the failure of a government and central bank on the Budapest Embassy of a large NATO Alliance country, which started in autumn 2014. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Since then, many have tried to interpret his sentences, and several forums have been initiated so that you can give an account of the background of the sentences, and the U.S. embassy has clearly rejected your words and phrases. For our part, we have initiated a number of committees to put on the agenda the problems associated with you, and your fellow parties have refused to do so. We also initiated the setting up of a committee of inquiry on the subject, and they did not sign it. And a sentence like that can't stay in the air. Please answer me, Mr. President, is there a basis for your statement, or was it simply a stupid thing to say? If you have a foundation, then you should tell us what it is - just because, if your statement is true, we, Parliamentary Members, have a job to do with it. And let me also ask you: are you willing to give an account before some forum in Parliament of the facts behind your words, your sentences? And since we've been together, Mr. President - we haven't seen each other in a long time - tell me what we've asked you so many times: did you pay a rent to Mihály Patai when you lived in his apartment? Thank you very much.
u2017-03-13-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy, whom I salute. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-03-13-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I thought you'd forgotten your paralyzed, lame horse, where a poor central bank president lives... [[Interjection in the ranks of the MSZP: Why, where do you live? Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] That is what I would like to ask you, honourable Member. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where does the President of the Central Bank live?]] After all, you obviously know that you're asking me a question because you assume that you're right. Again, it turns out that, once again, you are far from the truth, not only did you not hit the building and the apartment, but you didn't hit the district. I think you should be more precise, Mr President, but you are consuming Parliament's time when you are bombing the President of the Central Bank with such questions. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] But the real question really is whether you have noticed, for example, that certain things happened in Hungary in the autumn, winter and early in 2015 and in the spring of 2015. If you haven't found my home, you may not have noticed, but let's listen to Minister János Lázár, Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'll ask you next time. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] , who said in Parliament on 22 February: In the autumn of 2014, the then American administrator, Mr Goodfriend, intervened directly and indirectly in Hungarian internal political processes. I agree, Congressman. And he went on to say that everyone could remember this, and you too, Member, became the main actor in Hungarian domestic politics and then ordered him home. Well, Congressman, it's worth watching, if you've lost track of where I live, at least you know what country we live in and when. Thank you very much, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, As far as his housing is concerned, he is so secretive that even in the lawsuit against me, which he lost in the first degree, he has asked to handle these data secretly, it is almost ridiculous. But it doesn't matter because it's not the location, it's who you rent or don't rent this apartment from. I think that's the point, and you still haven't answered that, and you haven't. Do me a favor, Mr. President. On the other hand, as regards your statements, it was once again at the level of generalities that a Member could not do very much with. I think the fact that you guys are in line or you're good friends doesn't prove anything in itself. By the way, the fact that there are people and orgasms that bring maladministration to light does not mean that there is a deliberate attack on Hungary, at the very least you do not like it. [[15.10]] So I'm going to ask you again what specific facts are behind your statement. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and whether he is willing to give an account of them to Parliament. Thank you.
u2017-03-13-118	Thank you very much. I'll give the president the floor for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-03-13-119	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable House! Honourable Congressman, You say that depending on your party position, someone will think about this or that from the autumn of 2014 or early 2015. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't mention that.]] For this reason, let's listen to the Deputy Speaker of a left-wing party, Attila Ara-Kovács, head of his cabinet, who found the following words in the Hungarian Orange:, The American professional diplomatic intervention has already knocked the world order of Orbán out of its corners to the extent that no Hungarian political force would have been able to do, and a continuation is expected. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Go to him. What kind of sequel did you expect? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can there be another change of regime? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I'll tell you in advance, I'm going to ask you an unpleasant question, a difficult case. But I'm doing it because, in recent times, it's clearly difficult for you to deal with situations like this, so I'm warning you. Prime Minister! Turning to the point, the change of regime has disappointed Hungary and the Hungarian society in many ways, and of these aspects which have disappointed us, perhaps the main cause of disappointment was the lack of justice, the absence of full disclosure of the list of agents. The socialists had three cycles, although from their point of view it is understandable why they did not, but the young Democratic-Christian coalition also had three cycles to do so, and they did not, Prime Minister. This is what Jobbik, as the leader of the opposition, is asking for by the LMP, and this is what Momentum is asking outside Parliament. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And it's not just now, it's been asking for some time, and it hasn't happened. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Prime Minister! I'm aware that during your military years, you've been in contact with the services. I am also aware, Prime Minister, that there was one in your family who worked as an agent for the ÁVH in 1956, during the revolution. I am also aware that such disclosure would involve traumas and dramas for society as a whole. But I am also aware, Prime Minister, that such a move is inevitable, because we do not want to live in a country where the maintainers and operators of dictatorship can still live freely today and even apply for the highest political positions. I ask the Prime Minister to finally show me his change of system on this issue and to answer me the question of what he is running from, what he is running from, whether the Prime Minister may have something further to hide on this issue. Why are you trying to avoid a situation that is inevitable sooner or later? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-122	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-03-13-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the personal part of the matter is concerned, he has raised this on several occasions, and Jobbik has attacked me in this regard, and I have answered each time. I'm forced to call you a liar, like I had to do with the previous speakers. All your personal data is available to all our political leaders on the Internet; please turn it around in good health. As far as the substance is concerned, since it was not so long ago that we adopted the Act establishing the National Remembrance Committee, this committee prepared its report. At the right time, he knocks on the door, as the government discussed this report at the last meeting, made a decision about it, fulfilled all the requests contained therein, and handed the magnetic tapes over to the Archives. The Archives is open, please use it to contact the staff there with confidence. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-124	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congressman Gábor Vona has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-125	Prime Minister! I would like to reassure you, believe me, that George Soros and Lajos Simicska are not in control of the whole world. It seems to me that you've had a pinch lately, and it seems that the names that start with the letter "S" remind you of everything, you seem to have problems with the words "S." You and your party seem to remember everything, Lajos Simicska and György Soros, and these are the "S" names. Of course, I can understand, because in a certain state this letter may be so terrifying; it croaks, twists, who knows where it begins, who knows where it ends, nests in one's thoughts, and leaves him no rest. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Prime Minister, if you're having problems like this, I don't care, you're gonna have to deal with it. What I'm interested in is that here and now in the National Assembly, without any hesitation, you dare to say the one sentence that I was never an agent, I never gave anyone a written or verbal report. Who dares, Prime Minister, to say this here and now, or dare not? That's the question. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-03-13-127	I would be happy to repeat what I said earlier in this matter, please feel free to read the minutes. Of course I was on the other side. We, sitting here, standing on the other side, being chased, listening to us, installing listening devices in our apartments, and we did not cooperate with any kind of state security service, we have always served our country and the Hungarian people. [[John Lazarus: That's right!]] And as for the s-letters, it's not true that I have a problem with everyone. Zsolt Semjén is sitting next to me, for example, I don't see any problems. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] However, I can see that there is a problem here that you are struggling with. I understand you're in a delicate situation because you've confessed to selling your party. Where there's sales, there's buyers, and we all know you don't represent your own views, you're sitting in a big businessman's pocket. You have turned Jobbik, a national radical party, into a pair of bitches (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) but this is your problem that you have to solve. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-128	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: -Why is Sándor Kiss Szilárd Fazekas untouchable? It's an address. Mr Bernadett Wind is in charge. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am pleased that it is the fourth time, but it has finally hit the Hungarian Parliament and is responding to what it should have answered for a long time. The Kiss Szilárd case knows everything Fidesz has known in the last six years: corruption, crime and fidesz politicians who serve criminals and support criminals. Dear Minister, It would be very difficult for me to choose what is most scandalous about Szilárd Kiss's close-to-government career. One thing is certain: this is about a man who has organised illegal entry into the Schengen area for prostitutes, criminals and gangsters, and has been assisted by a bunch of Hungarian ministers. No one filed a complaint, and I had to do it in opposition, and you, Minister, even helped this imposter out by having failed the National Security Review two times, created a job for him, something that doesn't require due diligence. So far, the talk in the Hungarian Parliament was that this was because of the increase in exports. I now hold in my hand the internal report in which it is in black and white that Szilárd Kiss, the crook you have kept in the job, who knows why, had no economic benefits, Hungary has profited nothing of this, but it is in it that corruption has more to do with this matter. Dear Minister, I have a question for you right now. Would you still appoint Szilárd Kiss? If he could, and he could make a different choice, would he still choose to be Szilárd Kiss's attaché? What would you do today, Minister?
u2017-03-13-130	Thank you very much. We will hear the answer from Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-131	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking this question, but perhaps we should start at the title of the question, which says, "Why is Szilárd Fazekas Kiss untouchable to Sándor Fazekas?" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to say that Szilárd Kiss is, of course, not untouchable to Sándor Fazekas, but you are not asking me to touch Szilárd Kiss, are you? [[Defiance.]] You don't want me to tell you that you've been out of an FM staff for two years and that you've been a colleague's everyday life, and that you've been involved in off-duty activities, and that you've been in this spy novel for two years. I see that neither the visa issue nor other issues have put the national security of the European Union and Hungary at risk. During the period, years ago, when the colleague worked at the purse, Hungary's agricultural exports to Russia increased by 25 percent, and it was never a ministerial commissioner, it was never a high-ranking status, it did its job, but it has long been subject to proceedings, which are not related to the work carried out in the FM. [[Dr. László Kács: He was appointed, that's why!]] There, the authorities and official bodies concerned can provide you with information. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2017-03-13-132	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to a one-minute rejoinder to the head of the faction. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-133	Mr. Secretary, we used to say that where I grew up, it was pretty weak. So the thing is, you couldn't answer the question I asked you. However, the news is that in luxury hotels in Moscow there could have been compromising footage of various delegations who were staying in these hotels. Your ministry was asked a direct question, but couldn't give a straight answer, they asked whether Hungarian delegations had been involved in these hotels, whether they could therefore be photos and compromising images of people near FM in these hotels. Dear Minister, You replied:, Sometimes the invitation partner organizes the official program for the invited guests, possibly programme elements, occasionally the accommodation and care funding may also be charged to the invite party. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Minister, I had a question: why was Szilárd Kiss in the FM untouchable? Can you be blackmailed by Szilárd Kiss, Minister? Why did you keep this man in office? Have you been to this hotel? [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: Which hotel? Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Yikes, yikes! A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2017-03-13-134	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-135	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You must already know much more about FM employees than is needed by a minister in relation to the day-to-day work of workers. But I would like to tell you that at the hotel you asked me a written question about, there were no FM workers, I would like to reassure you. If you need any additional information, I suggest that you read all the articles that fill 782 pages so far, write a novel. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: This is a scandal!]] It could be a successful book. But let's wait for the official procedures, prosecutions and other investigations to be completed, and then I'm sure you'll be able to satisfy your unquenchable curiosity. On the part of the FM, I have already told you everything about this case, and I can't give you any more information. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-136	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Who will protect Europe? It's an address. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, you! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Peter Agh will protect you!]] Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. [[On the sign of Péter Ágh:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts Mr Károly Kontra as a replyer. Congressman Peter Agh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Here in Parliament, last week we adopted the law on strengthening the legal border seal. This amendment will provide Hungary with stronger protection and a stronger protection for Europe. We are almost not surprised that we are again under political attack from Brussels because of the tightening up. Several scenarios have been repeated in recent years: fake civil society organisations calling themselves rights defenders criticize Hungarian migration legislation at all possible international forums, and the pro-immigration politicians of the European Union are happy to join. Well, we've seen this before, it seems this battle will continue. International camouflage organisations are twisting the original content of asylum and interpret it as a right to social benefits, including those who enter the EU illegally. Our aim is to ensure that no migrant is staying uncontrolled, illegally in the territory of our country, because it is unacceptable for migrants to abuse the application for political asylum and to use it to disappear within the Schengen borders. The new set of rules is absolutely consistent and has a positive impact on the rest of the EU. It is an important success that Member States with high security risks are already slowly recognising that Hungarian legislation is effective and effective. But even in Brussels, it is a great challenge to make it clear that similar restrictions at national level are indeed necessary to address practical problems. Dear Secretary of State, Can we expect the government to effectively defend the tightening of the legal border closure that was adopted last week? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-138	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, Europe is protected by Hungary, and today, Europe is protected by Hungarian police, Hungarian border fighters and Hungarian soldiers. And how effectively this is done, allow me to quote the daily report: in the last 72 hours, there has been no forbidden crossing of the border and no border lock; there have been 54 visits to Serbia. These results speak for themselves, so we thank the police, border hunters and soldiers who serve to protect the border. But the danger has not passed, Mr President, on the Balkan route nearly 80,000 people are still moving, and the threefold protection that we have applied in autumn 2015 has therefore had to be strengthened. As a first step, in August 2016, the government decided to strengthen border hunting operations with 3,000 people. The recruitment has been successful, and for the second time in the last week, border hunters have been given a solemn oath; their training is ongoing, and there is every chance that the 3,000 will soon be on duty when the training is completed. But we also strengthened physical protection, because we built a second fence, built a manoeuvring road; and this second fence will be equipped with technical elements that allow no one to cross the Hungarian border effectively. The third element you mentioned is the tightening of the legal barrier. Parliament adopted it last Tuesday; thank you to the Members who supported this. The essence of this is that illegal immigrants wait in the transit zone until their request is assessed, cannot enter the country, and can leave the country or transit zone in the same direction after the request has been assessed: to Serbia. Thank you very much for the support of the Members. All conditions are guaranteed in order to protect Hungary and protect Europe in the future. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Agh. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-141	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. I think that the events of the last two years have clearly demonstrated that we have made the right decision here in Parliament every time we have made the necessary laws to deal with the migration crisis. Hungary has applied the only strategy that works from the start of the crisis, and the Hungarian solution, I think, has given a clear answer. We're clearly justified by what we've done and done so far. The attacks on Hungarian restrictions must be protected and it must be demonstrated that the Hungarian rules are indeed in line with European law. Europe is in danger and illegal immigration is a threat to people's daily lives every day. We believe that the law adopted last week serves to protect the people of Europe, and it is therefore of paramount importance that the government protects the parliamentary decision on the legal border closure at all forums. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At the last meeting of the European Council at the end of the week, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán presented the Hungarian measures regarding the tightening of the legal border closure, and on the basis of the information, we can say that the leaders of the European Council, the prime ministers concerned, understood the Hungarian intention and raised no objections to the tightening of the legal border closure. I would like to underline the cooperation that we have with the Visegrád countries, the V4 countries, in order to carry out this very important task effectively. We can continue to rely on the support of the V4 countries in order to take effective action against illegal migration, and we will ensure all conditions in order to take the implementing measures necessary for effective border protection after the entry into force of the tightening of the legal border seal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: what did you think, Mr President? It's an address. Congressman László Cook has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, We discussed the 2015 MNB report just two weeks ago, and then you made the statement that Hungary was attacked on the basis of a scenario from the Embassy of an allied NATO Member State, which included military and secret service tools. [[15.30]] It would have been a government failure, a central bank failure attack. That's what you've been doing before, or at least that's what you said about the pulpit. But we have to take this seriously when the central bank president says things like that. Therefore, I would like to ask you four questions; if your answer has already been obscured, you have not been able to answer my fellow Member Barondy's question, I will now say only four questions exactly - not eight, just four. Who, which country attacked Hungary? By what means was Hungary attacked? By what means has this attack been averted against the Hungarian financial system? Perhaps the most important question: is there still a risk of this attack in 2017, today. We have initiated the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the same four issues in Parliament, but the Fidesz faction, which supports you, runs away from this as a devil from incense smoke. So I think you need to help the faction now so that it doesn't have to be a committee of inquiry, if you can answer these four questions now. Then you just have to give the right answers to whether or not you filed a complaint, and if you knew about it, to whom did you report it. Did you report this hostile activity to the Information Office, the Constitutional Protection Office, the Counterintelligence Office, to anyone? Thank you very much. I look forward to your reply.
u2017-03-13-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2017-03-13-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to quote you for the reply to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, which Minister János Lázár wrote to him in reply to the question asked by him:, I would like to inform you that the national security services reported to the National Security Committee on 1 March 2017 on the matter. Yes, I believe that all the questions have been raised before the National Security Committee and that all the answers have been answered. That's why I think you should go to the National Security Committee. But I'd like to draw your attention to an exciting detail. I didn't say a word there about the pulpit in which a country was present. That's what your partner behind you said. How did you know? [[Attila Mesterházy: You guessed it!]] How did he know? [[Dr. László Kács: You made it up! He's so smart.]] How did he know right away, that day? Did you know that before? [[Continuous noise in the benches of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You just said it was a Good Friend, right?]] Did you know earlier, but you didn't tell me? What else didn't you tell me that your partymate, who was sitting behind you, knew earlier? Congressman, please contact him with confidence. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But you told me it was the Good Friend! How's that? Dr. István Apáti: The actor of the nation!]] I think you know more about this than we all do. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-13-148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Mr President, If you read Attila Mesterházy's letter carefully, you will also see that the other signatory is me. So, Minister, you must have sent me the same answer that I have at my disposal. I read it. In the National Security Committee, we have also initiated this agenda, as we will initiate before all the committees that may be involved in this, so that you can be heard on these issues. But more importantly, when the President of the Central Bank talks about something, the economy, monetary policy, economic policy, they listen to it, they react to it. It is therefore very important to know, and it is therefore very important that you give a straight answer to this. Did you talk nonsense about the pulpit here, or does it have any basis for what you've told me here? Because if there is a basis, then there is something to be done, and if there is nothing, then it was a great lack of discipline, a great sense of irrationality, and a very serious proof of inadequacy that he had to resign. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! That's right!]] Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-13-150	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the President. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2017-03-13-151	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You were given this letter on March 9th. Since then, while he was obviously preparing for his very serious speech, he could have read it. But I'm sorry you didn't notice what a lot of people noticed. For example, he appeared to Mr. Lajos Kósa, who I admire [[There's a lot of noise from the benches of the MSZP. Interventions in the same place, including Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's different!]] And I'm gonna give him the whole truth. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] who said: I noticed, for example, that in the autumn of 2014 André Goodfriend - a good friend - was conducting a campaign that was clearly aimed at attacking the Hungarian government. I think everyone but you noticed that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You just said you don't even know what country it is! Noise from the benches of MSZP. István Gábor Bellozó to the governing parties: Isn't that embarrassing? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] It is worth reading the letter, and it also gives a different answer. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But America? Dr. László Kács: Didn't Mesterházy invent it? István Gábor Bellozó: I applaud this! It was good. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-13-152	Dear MSZP Member Ladies and Gentlemen, You've had your chance. Those questions are exhausted, and, unfortunately, I can't give you any more words, but I can take advantage of the house rules, and I don't want to. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Where are you standing? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In the last 27 years, since the change of regime, Hungary has been dominated by the economic policy consensus that Hungary's catching up, improving living standards can be achieved by attracting working capital, foreign investment, which requires low wages, providing state aid to foreign capital, and offering low taxes and tax incentives to investors wishing to settle here. Three out of seven government cycles are marked by your name. You did not want to break off with this economic policy, even though the negative consequences of this policy are striking. Today, a Hungarian youth has two options: either stays home and becomes poor or indebted or leaves abroad. You continue to campaign abroad and draw attention to Hungary by offering the cheap labour force, the well-trained but inexpensive labour force to foreign working capital, and you do not want to hear about the break-down of wages. The Jobbik opposition is now calling for a European Citizens' Initiative, which will be launched tomorrow, with the full cooperation of the Eastern Central European countries. With this, the European Commission calls for the principle of equal pay for equal work to be enshrined in the EU Statutes and for the common market not only to achieve a commodity, not only to equalise prices, but also to catch up on wages and create a Union for wages in Europe. Mr. Prime Minister, If, three times in four years, you have not thought, in the government, to raise this question in the Council of the European Union, to find allies, and we have to do it from the opposition, then I only ask whether Prime Minister can support this initiative, whether he will stand behind our initiative. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-13-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-03-13-155	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that I have spent 16 years in opposition here in this House, and I am treading on my 12th year as a pro-government politician or prime minister. Therefore, unlike many, I remember well what economic policy concepts have been formulated between the walls of this House since the change of regime. What you're talking about has never been formulated as a desirable goal. In this House, when we talked about economic policy from 1990 onwards, we have always looked at how to remedy the historical problem of Hungary's lack of capital as a result of the communist economic and political system, and we have to enter the free world and compete with the Austrians and the Germans and God knows who else there was no communism, so there was a lot of capital, while there was communism and there was no community or private capital. We discussed the question of how to remedy this problem from 1990 onwards. There has always been agreement here, even among the parties from different political camps, that there are two options. In order to create small, medium-sized and later large enterprises in Hungary that are able to compete with foreigners, to compete in Hungary and to become competitors abroad. In addition, after we have a lack of capital, Hungary needs capital investments from abroad as well, so it is a good thing that capital is coming to Hungary, especially from abroad, which produces products that we can sell not only in Hungary but also outside of Hungary. That was the consensus. These two elements need to be combined and this gives out the economic policy that is always in force. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2017-03-13-156	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-157	Mr. Prime Minister, You have repeatedly demonstrated that the Hungarian people's wages and standard of living are completely indifferent to you. In Saudi Arabia, you were quoted for the sentence that we are very fond of working capital in Hungary, because wages are low, labour is well-trained and the labour code is sufficiently flexible. While socialist governments have provided HUF 4.6 million of state aid to a large company during their period of government to create a job here, your government is currently giving a large company HUF 12.2 million to create a single job here in this country. Prime Minister, we must not continue with art disputes with Brussels, we must stand up for the wages of Hungarian workers, and we must get off the dead horse that the coroner has already declared dead. No saddles, no spurs, no spurs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We need to get off him and do an economic paradigm shift. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-158	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Prime Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-03-13-159	Congressman, I agree that we should stick to the facts. I have just mentioned that I have spent 16 years here in opposition and 12 here as prime minister, pro-government representative. You can see every year: since the change of regime in Hungary, there has been a wage increase, especially a large wage increase when we were in the government. And we're proud of that. You label what you have to say the wrong way; turn it around, I don't know - half left? Or what's your fashion now? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So turn away somehow, and don't tell me, but where you want to say what you want to say, because those sitting on this side are Christian Democrats and Fidesz politicians, who have made decisions that have constantly increased wages significantly in Hungary. Moreover, we have not taken such decisions alone, but we have sought what I believe is right in the modern market economy to reach an agreement with those concerned. As regards wage increases in Hungary, trade unions and capital owners and the government are used to conclude agreements, the wage increase that takes place this year at the minimum wage is therefore outstanding throughout Europe. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the minimum wage for skilled workers. I do not support your initiative because you want little. There's more wage growth here than you demand. [[Martin Gyöngyösi to the president: Let him speak.]] On the other hand, I know that you have now become a party in Brussels, but I do not support your motion, I do not support the transfer of powers to Brussels in any form of tax regulation. Economic policy issues must be kept here, and even though you are proclaiming yourself as a national party, this proposal is nothing more than a decision on taxes and wages in Brussels. This is not acceptable! [[Moore, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-160	Thank you very much. Complaining fellow Members! You must have noticed that Márton Gyöngyösi also ran over time, and I gave him permission. Thank you for your understanding. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Not so much!]] and their need for equality. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question on the title "The results of the family home creation programme." Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll accept Secretary Bence Rétvári as his replyer. Congressman László Szászfalvi will take the floor.
u2017-03-13-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the summer of 2015, when the Fidesz-KDNP government introduced the family home-building discount as part of the government's new approach to family support system, it was almost immediately apparent that it would attract a great deal of interest. For a long time, young families have been waiting for this opportunity, and many have been familiar with the measure, and many have taken advantage of it. CSOK helps young families start their lives by supporting their own home building or buying, encouraging children to start a family, thus strengthening Hungary in the long term and improving its demographic situation. Last year there was also a turnaround in the housing market, thanks to the success of the CSOK, as 10,000 new apartments were built, a 31 percent increase compared to the previous year. It generates demand in the construction sector, thus creating jobs and, overall, improving domestic housing conditions. This is also supported by sustained and balanced economic growth, a favourable employment situation, an increase in real household incomes, a low interest rate environment and a reduction in the VAT on new housing. We were pleased to hear from the news that the total amount of CSOK claims in these weeks exceeds the limit of HUF 100 billion, and nearly one third of the families have pre-occupied their children. Dear Secretary of State, We hope that the success of the CSOK can continue this year, as opposed to the opinion of the opposition, who regularly attack home-building measures, and even under left-wing governance, much has been done to destroy the housing support programme of the first civilian government. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what trends we can conclude from the aggregated data, and the CSOK over the past year and a half [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what social processes did it strengthen or initiate? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Each government can decide, based on its own values, how it views families as an aid issue, as was the case in Hungary's history, or by tax cuts it tries to compensate families for the financial disadvantage that comes from raising children. And it is also an important value choice for a government to offer rent subsidies to families, or to help families with their own property, their own apartment, their own, new-built house. The Fidesz-KDNP government has chosen the second solution, helps families with tax reductions and gives everyone a home, not a tenant in their own home, because we want them not only to have a roof over the heads of families, but a real home. We remember that even this roof was at risk in the year 2010, when foreign exchange lending and its negative consequences were raging, hundreds of thousands of families faced the possibility of eviction. On the other hand, we tried to help build homes, expand the economy, create jobs, and encourage children to have children. This year, HUF 211 billion is available in 2017 under the home creation programme to support families' home creation. It's a gigantic sum, 211 billion forints of huge money. So far, until the beginning of 2017, nearly 40,000 families had already used the CSOK, we were able to grant grants of HUF 95 billion, with an average of HUF 2.5 million for a family. If I break down these numbers: we helped 10 000 families buy a new apartment worth HUF 57 billion; we helped 28,000 families buy a used apartment worth HUF 36 billion; we provided support to thousands of families to expand their existing apartments worth HUF 2 billion; we paid HUF 23 billion in VAT refund. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We left it in the pockets of the families, while with a loan of interest we helped the families with HUF 36 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-165	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In 2010, the government set itself the goal of turning Hungary into a family-friendly country, which was implemented by the government with countless, unlisted tools. Without the need for completeness, I mention some important measures: the development of the family tax system; the expansion and strengthening of the child's system; the introduction of the SZÉP card and the launch of the Erzsébet programme; the introduction and year-on-year increase of tax incentives for children; the radical expansion of the free textbook supply and free children's meals; the introduction of the. I think that all these programmes have served together and serve the strengthening and future of Hungarian families. That is why we ask and support the government's further efforts to further assist and support Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-167	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There are several examples of the family-type tax system in Europe, but there are few examples of such a wide and generous home creation programme, since since 2015, if the numbers of the times before the change - i.e. before the last CSOK expansion - are added, the Hungarian families have received 154 billion forints since July 2015 in order to establish a home, here in Hungary, a comfortable home with enough children's room to have children. [[15.50]] According to the 2016 data, 69 percent of families who had already had the child to whom the support was requested, but who requested 31 percent of the child to be born were asked for. This means that some 8,000 families have taken on the birth of 11,000 children last year, thanks to the incentive effect of CSOK. It is also remarkable that there is a huge explosion not only in construction sites but also in construction permits, as the number of applications for construction permits has increased by two and a half times. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck and Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of the LMP, wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is this a civil Hungary? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-169	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, We've talked about the past and the past several times today, and I'd like to recall that a little bit. I wonder what he had in mind when he was about to bury Imre Nagy, when he first became Prime Minister, what he had in mind about what civil Hungary would be like. I would like to know if you were thinking then that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen would earn a living abroad; I wonder if this was the time in the plan that the criminal organization organized to seize public property would tell you the legislation from tramps to land-privatisation, that this would be civil Hungary. I would like to ask: when you leave the public money to wizards and charlatans, who can make public money disappear by hand, you are prepared to do so, and you already thought of civil Hungary as such? When a village of people die of frost this winter [[Disruption, interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Don't talk! Don't lie to me.]] When 40 percent of society breaks down, would this be about civil Hungary? When you are determined from Russia what to do with our energy policy, this is how you imagined the future to tell in Moscow what Hungary's energy vision should be? When the school is pro-state propaganda, and neither the parent nor the educator can say what to teach you; when pro-government propaganda is practically simply pushing your propaganda, is this really civil Hungary? So that's how it was made back in the day? I wonder: the discrediting political culture that is being implemented here when you argue with our fellow Member, let's say, your sexual orientation. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Who?]] Is this civil Hungary now? So this is what you were planning to do back in the day? [[Noise, uproar, interruptions from the pro-age benches.]] I wonder if Flórian Farkas or Antal Rogán are at large - is this civil Hungary? Or is it the Prime Minister of the Royal Castle, in contrast to the House of People's Representatives, that embodys civil Hungary? With great respect, I ask you to tell me that this is, in particular, the civil Hungary that we are currently living in, and what are the indicators that allow us to recognise this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-03-13-170	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2017-03-13-171	Your Honour, Mr. President. In order to answer that question, I need to know the question, but I'm not a psychiatrist. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-13-172	Thank you very much. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-173	Thank you very much. Sometimes it would be useful, as I look at the members of the government and Mr. Matolcsy, if he were a psychiatrist after all. [[Defiance.]] So this would be useful at times, but you have mentioned several times today that you have spent 12 years as leader of the governing party, 16 years as opposition. What happened to you in the meantime? I asked specifically whether this is already a civil Hungary. That's a clear question. I want to know what happened. 'Cause I see you recently accused some young, enthusiastic group of dream killers. As far as I can tell, you're the dream killer, because you killed the dream of the promise of a change of regime, murdered the dream of civil Hungary. Hungary did not come at the time of the change of regime, which seemed to be the dream of many of you at the time. The question is whether this was the idea that the country would be like this. I would have waited for an answer, but it seems to me that it's difficult for you to answer. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-13-174	Thank you very much. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2017-03-13-175	Mr President, I am happy to answer all the questions concerning my work, but like Mr Vona, I do not wish to live a spiritual life with you. Thank you very much for these personal questions about what is going on with me, but this does not concern the Hungarian Parliament. The thing is, in the House of the country, we're dealing with the country's affairs. If the question is why the government wants or does what, then I can tell you that we imagined civil Hungary that everyone would have a job. We imagined that not only Budapest would develop, but also the countryside. We imagined that civil Hungary could feel safe in this country, because the police would protect it. We imagined that our borders would not separate us from the West, but would protect us against those we do not want them to come in here. That's what we imagined. But if you look at what we're doing, you'll find we're going in this direction. European employment figures have just come out: when the government changed in 2011, unemployment was 11 percent, now 4.3 percent. This means that between the 28 EU Member States [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] we were in the 20th place, and now we're in third place. Well, that's how we imagine civil Hungary. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-13-176	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member L. Simon László, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask an immediate question to the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister with the title of another successful period of Hungarian film production. Congressman L. Simon László has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. István Józsa: My successor before me?]]
u2017-03-13-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Hungarian film production has a 120-year tradition. During that time, he was at the forefront of the world. I'm glad we're back to having a successful time. This is also due to the fact that in 2011 we put the Hungarian film support system on a new footing. It was necessary to develop a new film support system and to consolidate the accumulated debt of the Hungarian Motion Picture Public Foundation and, in this way, the entire Hungarian film industry in order to save the sector and to remedy previous financing uncertainties. The program of the Hungarian National Film Fund and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority has been established. The Film Fund provides support for the development, production and distribution of movies, documentary films and animation films for cinema distribution, while the program of the NMHH, the Hungarian media field trip, helps the creators to make experimental and small films, TV films, animation short films, TV documentaries. The success of the transformation is indicated by the increasing number of outstanding creations, and the Hungarian filmmakers will receive another prestigious international award around the world. The Hungarian feature films produced in recent years received more than 200 prestigious international awards, while the films supported by NMHH brought nearly 300 awards. So this is a total of 500 prestigious recognitions. Among these, I must point out that, in a sensational way, Hungarian works have won the most prestigious film award in the world, the Oscar Prize in two consecutive years. In addition, in Cannes, London, Berlin, to name only a few, Hungarian creators return home with prizes. We can all be proud of that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Antal Rogán. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-179	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman, allow me to use your question first of all to recall the past a little bit, i.e. the period before the establishment of the Hungarian National Film Fund in 2011, because when the civil government formed the Hungarian National Film Fund about six months after the formation of the government and appointed the new government commissioner for its position, we had to face the following. The previous film production support system had a debt of HUF 9 billion. Nine billion forints! Most of this was a debt to banks, in Hungarian, in the previous film support system the MSZP-SZDSZ governments spent uncovered. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Of course, there was a reason for this, because we all know very well that the earlier film support system was the paying place of the SZDSZ intellectuals, without a result line, because in the previous period the results were not very successful. Compared to this, the 2011 decision, i.e. since the establishment of the Hungarian National Film Fund... - and I would not even like to talk about the results that the Member has already mentioned, because they are reflected in more than 200 prestigious awards, among which the two Oscar awards are undoubtedly the most prestigious, but we also highlight the economic results. Approximately HUF 85 billion was produced in Hungary in 2016 for various films, and so much was spent in Hungary for the production of films. After London, Budapest became the most important European manufacturing site in Europe in 2016, and within Europe, the biggest contribution of the film industry to GDP in Hungary is expected to be 0.25 percent of GDP in 2016. So since the establishment of the Hungarian National Film Fund in 2011, not only the results have been impressive, but also the capacity of the industry, the number of employees in the film industry and the GDP contribution have been roughly tripled. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dóra Dúró: Only no one is watching.]] [[16.00]]
u2017-03-13-180	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman L. Simon László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-181	Thank you very much, Minister. I was also pleased to note that Minister also highlighted the contribution of the film industry to GDP. Indeed, the highest contribution of the film industry to GDP in the European Union is two and a half times the European average. That's very good. The legislative amendment adopted by my fellow Members last December also makes a major contribution to further strengthening this process and to Hungary being one of the main sites and bases for European film production. What we are still looking forward to in the Fidesz and KDNP fractions: a welcome process that has started in recent years is that great new theme films are also being made. I highlight one, the great success of the First World War, Grey Nobodies, which processes an important period of Hungarian history, and which is the first World War I film. We hope that this process will continue, and we will be able to account for similar successes, as we are pleased with the Oscar Awards of the past period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister Antal Rogán is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-183	Thank you very much. Allow me, Congressman, to draw attention to the fact that many of the opposition benches have said that these films, which have won more than 200 different awards, are not being watched. Well, I think that it is worth comparing the ratings of the films Liza, the fox fairy, the Wednesday child, the White God and the Great brochure with the data that appeared as ratings in the film production system before 2010. I would also like to point out that I think it is also good that there are two types of support schemes in Hungary. In addition to the Film Fund, I would like to highlight in particular the system of the media field tour under the Media Council, thanks to which we owe our second Oscar prize. I think that the Media Council is also doing an excellent job, helping to create great Hungarian films. Without these, I think we would all be poorer, including the country's film culture. This is particularly important because, if I remember correctly, all my opposition fellow Members took a stand against the Media Council and, of course, its film support system. Turns out they're wrong, they're wrong. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-184	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question:, Is the development of the countryside or the statistical cosmetics of higher education important to you? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, His colleague in charge of higher education has put a particularly harmful proposal on the table, which does not help the life of the countryside, but which is a significant threat to its development. We are talking about the fact that there are virtually five major agricultural-higher education centres in Hungary today, and there are also a number of other agricultural-higher education training and research in the country. Your colleague's proposal is that it would eliminate this wide-ranging agro-higher education and concentrate significantly on it. They want to create a new large national agricultural university and integrate a significant part of the other universities into this university. Universities that, according to this concept, do not want to be physically integrated into this university also lose their independence with regard to research. In answer to a question last week, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári also said that they want to create very serious improvements at this new university and also want to concentrate on research capacities. It is not difficult to think that if this is achieved, then these rural universities will slowly degenerate. However, it would be an enormous opportunity for these universities not to be put together, not to concentrate, not to create a waterhead, but to build rural knowledge bases based on the five university centres that could form the basis and engine of the development of the region. Minister, your portfolio includes the development of the countryside, which is why I'm asking you to side with the countryside or this concept. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-03-13-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-187	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, As Minister for Government Coordination, I will answer your question because the 14 higher education institutions in which agricultural education is carried out are of particular importance to the government by carrying out 181 types of agricultural education. Our most important objective in the coming years is to raise the quality of education substantially. So we're not talking about any exterminations or redevelopments. Perhaps it is also well known to my fellow Member that Mr Palkovics's proposal concerns not only the restructuring of the higher education institutions but also the development of their content by launching a HUF 106 billion development programme. No decision has been taken on structural change, and no decision has been taken by the government. We are aware that there are a number of local aspects in favour of keeping various agricultural and higher education institutions, such as Keszthely, not only historical but also local and economic interest. The main question is whether Hungarian higher education in agriculture can serve the agricultural sector at the moment, whether the agricultural sector, agricultural productivity, agricultural GDP growth, is inspiring, or, as a result of the continuous withdrawal of funds, which occurred in these universities and colleges, are more of a loser. I can give you my own example. No one's gonna be able to explain it to me, and I'm not gonna believe anyone at a university where there's a very strong science faculty, there's a medical university, and there's a university of humanities, and there's an agricultural college that can be the winner of the university's development. I don't buy it. Therefore, I think that in Hungary, agriculture must cooperate with each other and that cooperation between colleges and university faculties is needed in higher education. In our view, this is in the interests of rural development. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-188	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gábor Bellozó. Here you go.
u2017-03-13-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I'm glad to hear that no decision has been made. So I'd like to elaborate a little bit more on what I think is right. I see enormous potential for thinking in the direction of the regional knowledge centres I have mentioned, rather than a central waterhead. In the life of the countryside, these agricultural-higher education institutions are not only simple sectoral knowledge centres, but also have serious organisational potential. If these institutions were able to integrate the level of secondary school education, they could also be a motor in the integration of economic operators in the sector, if they were to be defocused centres of the Ministry for Rural Development and Agriculture, then there is enormous organizational power and enormous potential; not to mention that in these areas it is indeed an important centre of grey matter, knowledge that needs to be strengthened rather than centralized to Gödöllő. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-13-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is given to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2017-03-13-191	Despite the fact that Hungarian agriculture already lacks a high-skilled workforce and a high-quality workforce, 25 percent of students in agricultural higher education today are not in a job according to their degree. That's talkative. The most important, therefore, is the change in content. We need to examine and assess whether what we are teaching today with the title "Agricultural Higher Education" is capable of serving a modern, competitive agriculture. That's the most important question. We need to go back to the basics, this country needs high-quality livestock farmers and high-quality crop growers, nothing less and nothing more. I would also like to add that this is the result of structural issues. I am convinced, and I represent within the government that the various agricultural institutions must cooperate with each other so that local interest can prevail, in Hungarian, it is not a goal to terminate any college or university. I would like to add one thing in any way: the most important goal is that agriculture will ultimately be the winner of this process. We want to work together on this and we want to achieve the proposal by consensus. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-13-192	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It's 16:10. [[16.10]] The speeches following the agenda will now take place. He applied for a post-meeting speech... [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] I will wait until my fellow Members who are leaving now... do not disturb the speaker, so I will wait for them to leave their seats. All I'm asking you to do is get out of here. Márta Demeter applied for a post-meeting speech: what is the security of the nation worth? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I give you the floor, please.
u2017-03-13-193	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The question could also be asked how much the security of the nation is worth to the government, as we have become accustomed to the fact that the Orbán government is constantly in danger in recent years, and it makes a very active contribution to the development of a situation in the country in relation to certain matters, so that it can demonstrate that they will protect the Hungarian people. But, of course, this is a vain fantasy, and it is very deceptive, because the reality is that the government itself, the current regime, is a national security risk, and that the entire state institutional system is already helping to implement and serve the business and political interests of a narrow circle. This is how Hungary has become completely defenseless in recent years. Unfortunately, it can be seen that the issues that most strikingly show that the government itself has become part of organised crime, which represents an extremely serious risk, make Hungary vulnerable and has completely eliminated Hungary's immune system. The first case I'd like to mention is a matter of settlement bonds. We remember that, under the Rogán Act, the State Debt Management Center has contracted several offshore companies to sell Hungarian government bonds. I would like to draw the attention of government representatives and the government that, no matter what they refer to, there is no way in the world that offshore companies are selling government bonds. This is an outrageous part of the initiative at first. These offshore companies have already made more than 100 billion forints in this business for a few years. The Hungarian state's loss is now between HUF 6-10 billion due to the high interest rate. It can be seen that without any kind of control, criminals could come in with these bonds, and there is a huge risk that even counterintelligible secret services can take advantage of the settlement bond scheme to achieve their goals not only in Hungary but also in the Schengen area. So far, over 18,000 people have been allowed into Hungary. It is clear that these people have made no meaningful investment, in this respect the interests of the Hungarian national economy have not been attached to this, and now the Hungarian State has a payment obligation of more than HUF 330 billion, which, of course, will be paid with interest. You can see that Hungary's safety has been sold. The other case is the Pharaon case. We remember that an international criminal, including wanted to finance terrorism, was allowed in and even invited to Hungary simply to do business with the Orbán clan and friends. Clearly, they knew exactly who this man was. Pharaon was perfectly identifiable to the Hungarian authorities, and it was clear from the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs file that Viktor Orbán did not meet this man at an honorary dinner by accident, but at the time of the visa application he was told that he was going to attend dinner with the Prime Minister. So from then on, the entire Hungarian state institutional system carried out this political order. Meanwhile, the ministries were lying all over the place, pointing fingers at each other in the case, trying to cover up the fact that - now we can say - the government is becoming part of organised crime. No national interest was attached to this Pharaon case, and the Hungarian people had no interest in it.In fact, this was a high risk, and it was only in the business interest of a narrow circle. And the third case is the Moscow visa issue. This was mentioned in the House today. Thousands of people were allowed into Hungary and the Schengen area through the visa centre in Moscow and the consulate, without any substantive checks, with just a few days of administration, without knowing who they had granted admission to Hungary and the Schengen area. In 2013, even the German embassy in Moscow indicated a visa abuse, but the State Department did not take any action on the matter. And all of this, isn't it, was the Kiss Szilárd who was appointed agrarian attaché even though he failed twice the national security screening. To this day, we have yet to find out what the very important argument could have been to override this risk, and neither can the Ministry of Foreign Affairs's responsibility be lost. So they threaten the security of the Schengen area, they threaten the security of Hungary. I think that these matters will not lapse, that both criminal and political accountability will happen, and the question is no longer how much Hungary's security is worth to you, but that is what Hungary's security is worth to you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will answer the question after the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-195	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to tell you that there is a party, and you know it very well, because it recently left behind, which, when it left its government, left behind a huge sovereign debt: it increased the Hungarian government debt from 50 to more than 80 percent. This also meant that the funding of the Hungarian State caused a serious headache for a long time, and was a serious challenge. However, the government wanted to avoid the horror of IMF loans, because they involve austerity, so it looked for alternative solutions. These include, among other things, the settlement policy you mentioned. This bond program brought money to the country, and it didn't take me away at all. The Hungarian State has obtained funding in a favourable way, unlike what it would have achieved with the help of normal market loans. As regards security aspects, applicants have undergone multiple security checks, examined and examined by TEK, services and police. It's not an immigration issue, it's an investment issue. I would also like to tell you that, since the economy is now stable, the government has decided that the settlement bonds can be issued, which, by the way, have brought significant benefits to the Hungarian State during the period left behind. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You asked in your speech that the title also refers to this, if I recall correctly how much the government's security is worth. I have to reassure you that security concerns are the highest priority for the cabinet. That is why we are raising our voice even against the price of migration risks. This is what you or the party you left behind called a fake problem, isn't it? That's why the government has reinforced the southern border lock, and that's why it's reinforced the legal border lock. This is the thing that the party that you left behind did not support at all, and even attacked this measure, and we are consistently saying no to the resettlement quota because we bear not only the security of Hungary but also the safety of Europe as a whole. That is why the Government also initiated an amendment to the Fundamental Law. As a reminder, the party you left behind did not support this amendment to the basic law. Then why weren't you worried about the country's security? In order to mention a few other security aspects, there is currently significant development of forces in Hungary, the law enforcement career model has started before, so the salary of the military is increasing on average by about 50 percent, as is the case with the police, and that is why we will spend until 2026 for a decade, so we will continue to spend more and more on defense purposes. In addition, Hungary is among those countries who will be able to reach the 2-percent defence expenditure level recommended by NATO in the future. Let me just say one more thing: last year, military organizations received a $3 billion vehicle development. It's all something you haven't talked about, but they're very much contributing to the country's security. All this is just a few examples that show that the security aspects of the government are a priority. If this is important to you, then you can count on us, and I can tell you that if there is something that has a strong impact on Hungary's security, which carries significant security risks, it is that if the party you left behind comes back to govern. Thank you for listening. [[16.20]]
u2017-03-13-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the group of the MSZP: The families of Máv-telep will be on the street in Kőbány? Mr Sándor Burány spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-13-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In Kőbány, the management of the municipality in 2014 started to take over the transfer from MÁV and from the Hungarian State with the sound of a voice that, if the municipality becomes the owner of the MÁV site, the inhabitants will cease to have chaos, legal disorder and the owners of these properties. Miklós Seszták, head of the development portfolio, answered my question at his ministerial hearing, he made a strong promise that the apartments on the MÁV settlements would be sold to former MÁV employees who have lived there for decades. I quote the Minister: I come from economic life, and nothing is further from me than to do one thing in a very long time. I can promise you one thing: we can close this case within a closed deadline. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But it didn't happen so fast, I was forced to ask a written question. On behalf of the wallet, Secretary of State János Fónagy informed me that the MÁV was called upon to sell the apartments to the current tenants. After that, although this process was not fast, the MÁV handed the apartments over to the National Asset Manager, and the trustee passed it on to the Municipality of Kőbánya by selling the apartments. It looked like the whole process would end slowly, but with happy endings. That's not what happened. The residents were then hit by a cold shower; it turned out that they had been fooled quite simply. For the record, the legal situation is not simple. It is a fact that the so-called Jancsi colony has been the property of MÁV for decades, but the company has not paid much attention to it, so the streets and the state of the houses have gradually deteriorated. The real estate was repaired by the residents. At the same time, many of the original residents died, and their families inherited the apartments according to a customary law, so to speak. Thus, the number of people living on the premises can now be estimated at about 130-170 who become bona fide, undocumented housing users. In fact, the records are unorganized. The boundaries of the land do not lie where the paper says they should be, the utilities do not lie below the public areas, but below the houses. The properties lie on six local map numbers, not each plot represents a separate location number. In fact, the situation was complicated, which is why special rules should have been established, and the municipality, on the other hand, does not seem to have any idea. The MÁV settlements do not receive substantial information from the municipality about the reasons for the extension of the transfer, what was left was that almost 250 residents are still threatened with eviction, the municipality is simply attempting to lease, and they are not willing to evict them from the property if not. So in 2014, even in the election, it was clear that these were just a fidesz campaign promise, that the residents were being deceived and deceived. There have been many rumors, legends, and rumours in the Jancsi colony ever since; I must say, given the disorder of the case, it is not unfounded. It occurred to me that in the Fidesz way, it was nothing more than a kind of real estate business, to create a situation so that the people living there wouldn't have to stay, one way or another, but to get rid of these tenants, and then the whole establishment could be used in some kind of real estate business. My personal position, as a Member, was that there is a special situation in Kőbány in the MÁV site over several decades, which would require special regulation, but the municipality refuses to do so, and wants to apply the same rules to this complex legal and social settlement as any other municipal dwelling. They cheated the people who lived there. That's not what they were promised. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-13-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-199	Honourable Congressman, Allow me to reply very briefly, for obvious reasons: what we know is that the properties of Budapest Hungária körút from the companies of MÁV were first transferred to the Hungarian State and then to the Municipality of Kőbánya, and the municipality took over the lease agreements with MÁV; you referred to this too, if I understand correctly. The further fate of the real estate is provided for by the Municipality of Kőbánya, so I would like to ask you to address these issues first of all to the municipality. Nevertheless, it is in the common interest that this matter be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you for listening.
u2017-03-13-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2017-03-13-201	Mr President, Dear House, This government committed a prehistoric crime: while most of the so-called foreign exchange loans in the neighbouring countries and in other countries of Europe have acted in terms of government intervention by converting these so-called loans around the exchange rate at the time of admission, Hungary has used as a kind of negative EU record player a market price conversion, so hundreds of billions of HUF were unduly taken from people, legalized this mistake and credited it to the banks' side. In Europe, even a country has not made such a self-destructive, so-called arrangement, it has not been executed, and we can also say that through the lucky upper middle-class man, we can actually find interest in all social groups. In fact, the right-wing reception hours appear on each of them, and today we have hosted Ica Bíró on this matter in Parliament, and at other times other public figures undertake to make their voices heard by the injured and their fellows. And it is indeed a shame that you force these civilians, innocent victims, to articulate their voices, to turn to courts, to have expensive litigation costs, because their reference last week - when they tried to bring them to the House so that they could not undervalue the property of the people - was incomplete, so they couldn't complete a sub-area. It will be the subject of long legal disputes as to whether, for example, after the third unsuccessful auction attempt, the value of the fourth auction can be reduced to 50 percent or not; on the basis of your erroneous proposal, for now and in principle, yes. We already put our amendments on the table, but we will put them on the table later. However, even if we succeed in achieving that it is not possible to squandered a significant amount of real estate under value, this does not override your original sin, and this prehistoric sin is that you have made a deal with the EBRD, you have made a deal with the Banking League and you have promised them that they will not impose any burden on banks, not anything that protects the interests of the injured. And you have referred to, if I remember correctly, the leader of the KDNP faction in the debate on values last week, that there have been some 3,400 evictions in the last year alone; and we must tell you that some three years ago Jobbik placed on the table almost the same proposal that you voted for last week, but not in a faulty way, but in a flawless way. Then you have swept off this right-wing improvement amendment, saying that it is unprofessional, illogical, that it cannot be applied in such market conditions. The fact is that, in terms of its principles, the same was submitted three years later, leaving these codification and legal errors in it, of course, and then they went through and voted, together with us, on this legislation, because even though it is wrong to help someone, we should not be the obstacle to it. But we have to say that a few hundred or even thousands of evictions could have been attributed to you, because if years ago they had taken the normal motion to take the series of market-cleaning councils that we put in our proposals, they would have been able to get away with these catastrophic life situations, but ego was still more important to you. We even asked them to take off the Jobbik logo, put a Fidesz-KDNP on it, as usual, and submit it, but they didn't do it three years ago. I can't say that to the Secretary of State, because at the time, I remember he wasn't here in Parliament, but certainly to his colleagues. [[16.30]] Today's representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP did not vote three years ago for the debt rescue effort that they have brought into the House, I add, with a minor flaw. However, they were not able to develop the institutional system of the private failure normally, since only a few hundred interested parties were able to accept the very strict conditions. At the National Asset Manager, it is still the bank that tells whether the asset manager can contract with the victim or not. Thus, the housing of thousands of Hungarians is not safe, and you also allow the amount needed to sustain life to be burdened by a reduction of 33 per cent or 50 per cent, even in the case of basic pensions that you are actively contributing to the lack of basic life security by these people, literally starving, not being able to replace their medicines. If you think this is Hungary's growth, then we do not ask for this type of growth. There's a new accounting law that needs to account for the banks, and if they don't do that, you're gonna have to be accounted for. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-203	Honourable Congressman, He looked at me the whole time, but I couldn't help but think that he was actually giving this speech to the Socialist Party, because if there's a responsibility to the situation, then first of all, it's in that party. But despite all of this, since it is an important problem, it is very legitimate to expect the government to report from time to time where we stand and what it has done to help foreign exchange lenders. But if we do so, it is worth mentioning the history, also because during the first civil government, there was a well - functioning home-building system. This was liquidated by the Socialist Party and thus allowed for foreign exchange lending. The result is well known: the share of foreign currency loans has increased more than a hundred times, and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are in a hopeless situation and in a debt trap. [[MSZP representatives are leaving the room.]] No wonder the representatives of the Socialist Party are leaving, because they don't want to hear that. Therefore, one of the first action plans of the civilian government re-in office in 2010 was the action plan for foreign exchange lenders. As one of the first measures, an eviction moratorium was announced, followed by the introduction of the exchange rate barrier and the possibility of end-payment. Following this, the government decided on new measures in 2014. These included the forinting, which protected foreign exchange-credit families from a payoff increase, which they would not otherwise have been able to cope with. By issuing foreign currency loans, some HUF 3600 billion of loans were forinted. Then the bank was accounted for. This was necessary because the banks gained unfair profits with the unilateral interest rate increase and the price barrier, and thanks to the accountability, the burden of 1.3 million Hungarian families decreased by about HUF 1000 billion. Swiss franchise monthly payments decreased by approximately HUF 26,000. That's part of the picture you were talking about. These measures have helped hundreds of thousands of families, but we know that much remains to be done. There is much work to be done as long as there is only one family in Hungary that suffers under the burden of foreign exchange loans. For example, help should be given to those threatened with eviction. That's what you said. That is why the law on judicial enforcement was recently amended. On this basis, only 100 percent of the value of the property can be auctioned in the future. This protects families from the fear that banks will auction their apartments for pennies while keeping their massive repayments. Congressman, I can assure you that the government will continue to do everything in its power to help foreign exchange creditors. If Jobbik has suggestions to improve on this, the door is open. It is in our common interest to rid ourselves of one of the most burdensome inheritances of the socialist period. Thank you for listening.
u2017-03-13-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for an address after the agenda with the title of a Hungarian person. There you go. You have the floor.
u2017-03-13-205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The other day, we received a letter from an outraged citizen who was content with the government's policy. The letter was written by a Fidesz voter who you betrayed and abandoned. Let the confrontation come, and let us have a few quotes from this very long, handwritten letter. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm just a community worker. I'm not an important person. Each party proclaims that the electorate is the most important thing to him. I ask you, if you consider me a Hungarian citizen, to make time for this letter. As an electorate, I will express my opinion on power, the Orbán government and its culture, using freedom of speech and expression. I don't like what the government's been doing since 2010, since they came to power. Orbán always claimed that the people gave him the authority to do everything by two thirds. No one gave him permission to steal, rob, fill their own pockets, the client's pockets with money. He operates Hungary as a Mafia state. While they took the bread from the poor, they rewarded the bread for themselves with amazing wealth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The letter writer then lists the outrageous cases that have marked the government's past nearly seven years, and which upset not only us but also the electorate. A good example is that the writer of the letter states about the Prime Minister: In a country where democracy rules are respected, I quote, the Prime Minister could not be the Secretary of State. I didn't want a godfather democracy like this when the regime changed, where an inviolable clan can do everything unpunished, while the simple voter is punished for the slightest violation. This is not how I imagined this order, as the Prime Minister is doing now. I imagined it as it is in Sweden, for example. In a normal democracy, they launch a property investigation and a prosecution against those who commit such a crime. In Sweden, for example, I'd like to find out who owns the vast wealth the mayor of the Highway. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The restriction of freedom of the press did not escape the attention of the letter-writing citizen, who put it this way: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another thing that upsets me is the way Orbán and his clienture use the channels of Magyar Television as a propaganda machine. You don't hear a single sentence about the Orbáns' dirty business. I need credible information, not propaganda. Propaganda is nothing more than an instrument of immoral power to influence people by maintaining their immoral power over the people. I don't hear a word about the illegal and immoral foundations of the Hungarian National Bank, Matolcsy, where their friends, wives and girlfriends are stuck in for five million monthly payments by the Orbáns. The three million were too many, while they were not in power, over two million could have been a month's salary. That's what they told me, the voter. If my buddy gets the $5 million or the man's wife, it doesn't bother the current Prime Minister. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the end, let me read the part of the letter where the letter writer makes up his accusation of what he wants to live in Hungary: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Someone, if you ask me, tell me, Michael, what kind of Hungary you want, my answer would be that I want a Hungary with a human face, where politics is pure moral, where the average citizen, the little man, feels at home, feels that decisions are made for him, not for a culture. In Orbán's country, who has a very high income, can take advantage of all the benefits, he is entitled to the most tax refunds, not for low-income people. Being Prime Minister means taking responsibility for the children of every Hungarian family. The politician always represents the future, the future must be grown by the person who wants to be Prime Minister of Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This was included, among other things, in this long letter, which he had written for many days, and, since he had worked during the day, was written, written by hand, and is roughly a booklet of length, he sent to the Members and asked us to put this voice on the speaker. We have done this, and we are asking the Prime Minister to listen to the voices of the people and to act accordingly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-13-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Was the solar cell factory in Csorna a scam? Where are the state billions? Mr Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech after the agenda with a title from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2017-03-13-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! On 19 July 2011, EcoSolifer announced that with a 50 million investment, it would install a solar cell factory with technology, which is an unprecedented investment in Hungary, even at European level, and technology is a sophisticated, new method. By the summer of 2012, they promised to start, creating 160 jobs locally, and then news of revenues of EUR 50 million a year. In fact, Zsolt Becsey, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, had already submitted that the state contributed HUF 935 million to this solar cell factory. János Áder - President of the Republic re-elected today - is another XXI. He was talking about a century-old plant that embodies both the country and its dreams, and it will be a solar cell factory with very serious technology. After all, János Áder laid the foundation stone in September 2014. This in itself is a serious slippage compared to 2012, but then the cold shower came even more, as we had to wait until May 2016 for the news to even appear about the building itself. At that time, the majority of you were confident, and we also know from the press reports that the transfer and transfer has begun, the training of 30 employees has already begun, two to three months, and the machines are coming, there is a significant market rise to be expected, and there is a long list of positive statements that you have made. But where are we now? They're sent away, so the few employees who were hired from the promised 160 have been sent away, as far as I know. There's no technology, so it's completely empty, but it's already soaked. Eximbank - and here I look forward to Mr. State Secretary's exact answer - allegedly gave me HUF 7 billion for this investment. We would be very curious to know how much of this has finally been called off, under what conditions and what guarantees the state has received, and if the 7 billion forints have been transferred, then how will they recover it if this plant does not work after all. In fact, we can talk about other state aids, as the government contributed HUF 1 billion, and then in the New Széchenyi Plan we can talk about another HUF 2 billion, so in total, what the Hungarian State has to do with is HUF 10 billion. I would like to know who is responsible, and once again, what guarantees have we received that the taxpayers' money has been spent on a plant from which only the building has been built, so that the machines, the technology, should be operating anywhere, for a number of years, and from here the story, sounds like a local campaign promise, which was then thrown in, and is no longer intended to be implemented. After all, let's face it - I am talking about Csorna and the region - in addition to the construction of the motorway, this was the other main campaign element of your candidate's wonderful, environmentally friendly and valuable investment in the region. So all these years have passed, we can't see a result, and, more importantly, taxpayers don't know, at least they wouldn't know how the company accounts for these billions. So, to simplify my question, I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply on the eximbank credit, on other public loans, on assistance, and on what information they have, whether this plant can be implemented, because we have to admit that the people of Csorna, the people in the area, are interested in achieving this plant, despite these problems, because a lot of Csorna people are forced to go to Győr, Austria, Sopron, Szombathely and it would be very good if these 160 jobs were actually carried out locally. Another story is, of course, that if we start from your economic policy, then surely wages will not be close to Western Europe, but that will be another battle that they will have to fight with us, and I am now waiting for a meaningful answer to the previous questions for the people of Csorna. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-13-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. From his speech, I feel that he is very fond of the employment situation in the region, and I would like to reassure him from this point of view: in January 2017, unemployment in Csorna is below 1 per cent, to be exactly 0.65%. In 2010, so when the current government took office, this was well above 5%. This means that in January 2010 there were only 47 people left without work in this city, instead of 386 people. Nevertheless, it remains an important task to create as many and more quality jobs as possible in this region. This was also the purpose of the construction of the M85 road between Győr and Szombathely, and this is also served by the Csorna bypass road, which is expected to be completed next year. This could facilitate investments. And by the way, that's actually the purpose of the private investment you've mentioned. What is certain is that from nearly HUF 2 billion, the factory has been built from EU funds, and hopefully it will work soon. As regards State aid, the aid contract was concluded in June 2014 for the investment in Csorna with this module-producing company. The government has imposed strict conditions in the contract and has done so precisely in the interest of the responsible management of taxpayers' money. The amount of aid shall be paid if all the conditions laid down in the contract are fulfilled. I would like to inform you that, regardless of all this, many other companies have received either state or EU support in or around the city. These include, for example, a local furniture company, machinery company, or assembly company. It also shows that, like the country, Csorna and its region are growing beautifully. Thank you for listening.
u2017-03-13-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, What do you spend abroad on the Prime Minister's hobbies? ? Mr Szávay, Member of the Jobbik Group, the notary of the Parliament, applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-03-13-211	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A week ago, Jobbik's representatives in the whole series of speeches asked whether Lőrinc Mészáros was indeed the treasurer of Viktor Orbán, because of his incredibly richness due to the fact that Mészáros is only a cashier who manages the Prime Minister's assets. It is well known that the nation's gas mechanic not only spends his own or most of his own money on castles, land estates, TVs and newspapers, but he also prefers to sacrifice to Viktor Orbán's favourite sport, football, and within it the team of the Prime Minister's village, Felcsútra. However, this generous spending is no longer at the borders of Felcsút, and even at the current borders of the country. The most spectacular example of this is the soccer team of Osijek in Croatia, which has been owned for a year by Lőrinc. It is well known that companies seeking good relations with the government in Hungary are generously supporting football clubs under direct Fidesz control, and that since last year, the money of Hungarian companies has been pouring into the Osijek team. The sponsors on their website are almost all Hungarian companies. Without the need for completeness, there is Duna Asphalt, which, according to many, is also a prime minister's treasury, or the Hungarian Builder, and there is indeed the biggest corruption scandal, Strabag, one of the main beneficiaries of the 4th metro case. It is interesting that the president of this football club is Ivan Meštrović, whose luxurious yacht was relaxing last summer. They certainly had something to talk about, as it is said that stadium building fever is rapidly spreading across the border, including specifically Osijek. According to press reports, I would like to build Croatia's state-of-the-art stadium there. They don't even play small, because first they raise a small arena to have a place to play until the larger one is built in its present place. What do we say, looks like there really is money. The stadium will also be accompanied by a soccer Academy as usual in Hungary. He recently celebrated the 70th anniversary of the Osijek team, and the agreement on the establishment of the Academy was concluded at this event. Davor Šuker, president of the Croatian football association, who personally thanked Viktor Orbán for taking up the sport, spoke at the ceremony. In light of this, the question arises again, from what money, whose money is he building a Lőrinc stadium and academy in Osijek. Ivan Meštrović, mentioned earlier, said in an interview that the Hungarian government supports the construction of the Osijek Academy with EUR 3.3 million. [[16.50]] Jobbik emphasizes every time that it supports all forints across the border, but is this 1 billion forint in the best place at the football academy of a city with 1 percent Hungarianism, Mr. Secretary of State? And while there was no money available for years for the college of the Hungarian Educational Centre in Eszék, although the locals and the local Hungarians asked for it, now all of a sudden this has been resolved, but according to the bad languages, these rooms are not made for not only Hungarian students from Drava nail, but rather for the future young football players of the academy. Jobbik was informed, and perhaps this is the point, that the aim of Lőrinc Társaságos is in fact to start with Croatian public procurements, so he builds his contacts, because it is useful to have a plan B if next year there will be a change of government in Hungary. There will be, and I promise you, we will also pay attention to these issues. But let's take a look around the Carpathian Basin. The Serbian partner organization of the Puskás Academy, owned by Lőrinc Pénztárs, the South-Hungarian Football Academy of Topolya receives HUF 3 billion of Hungarian public money; obviously a stadium will also be built from this. And it has been known for years that the partner organization, the Székelyföld Football Academy, has been generously supported by the Hungarian state. But according to many, Csíkszereda is not the last station in Transylvania; in the future, the Prime Minister's trustee can build a stadium in another settlement. The latest news is that Lőrinc was personally watching a football match this weekend, but this time in Felvidék. At the Dunaszerdahely-Zsolna match, he was seen with the oligarch of the DAC owner, Béla Bugár, president of the Most Bridge and Árpád Árpád Ársek bridge minister. I don't even want to mention whether this strangely formed crew is pointing in the direction that, after the Transylvanian alliance change, Fidesz is now preparing to replace its vassal, the MKP, with its former enemy, the Bridge. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. It is gratifying to have as much money as possible for the Hungarian communities living in their ripped areas, but at the same time we have to ask: is there really a place for all this money in both football and stadium building, and in a city like Osijek, where only 900 people out of 100 thousand inhabitants are Hungarians? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And you're sure we have to build a college for a Hungarian school so we can move soccer players there? Or to be more specific: how much Hungarian public money does the Hungarian state want to spend directly or via Lőrinc Mészáros on Viktor Orbán's favourite sport, football? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-13-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, the answer will be given by Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-13-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I believe as the usual political paranoia, that Jobbik now has virtually every Hungarian man behind him with a cashier's vision, a cashier, which I understand from the point of view that Jobbik has actually been taken over by a prestigious cashier. One wonders, by the way, whether any right-wing speech chosen at random will be a little different from any socialist speech selected at random. [[Gergely Wolf's intervention.]] Honourable Congressman, One aspect, however, was very ignored in his speech. The reason why we can talk about what the government spent on sports development is because the Hungarian economy did well last year, and at the end of the year the government decided to use additional resources. Most of the additional funding was given to health care, with a total of HUF 60 billion, but the government spent a considerable amount on pensioners' vouchers and, by the way, on the development of education, many educational institutions will be renewed. And since there are considerable reserves left in the budget, it has also been able to develop sports facilities. This, by the way, mainly means domestic sports development, but there was also a source of investment across borders. The investment you mentioned, you know, is just one of many. [[István Szávay: That's the problem!]] After all, according to the decision, there are also support for the various other academys in Színeszereda, Southern, Dunaszerdahely, Osijek, Munkácsi and many others. These programmes do not serve the interests of a single settlement, but stimulate the sport life of the entire region, especially the Hungarian communities living there. I've come to know you as someone who cares about that aspect. Otherwise, not only sports development in the Carpathian Basin with the support of the government, a kindergarten development programme will be launched, with a minimum of 68 kindergartens and a further 215 can be developed. I could talk long about economic development programmes in Vojvodina and Transcarpathia, but I don't do this in the absence of time. [[Gregory Wolf: Three minutes...]] But what I'm telling you is that the government doesn't make a secret of viewing healthy lifestyles and regular physical activity as a high priority, and this is all about Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. This is why the largest sports investment programme in recent decades is under way. I understand that Jobbik, like the MSZP for political purposes, is practically playing stadiums from morning to night, but even you know that there are a lot of other types of facilities. For example, more than 100 classrooms, 25 gymnasiums and 24 school hotels are being invested in the purpose of everyday physical education in the current period. I think that these are goals that, in addition to the usual domestic political slashes, deserve the support of opposition parties. Thank you for listening.
u2017-03-13-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 20 March 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your cooperation. Thank you for the work of the staff of the Parliament's Office and the chief minutes. The meeting's closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 4:56 p.m.]]
