u2018-06-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that at the meeting, Attila Gelencsér and István Szávay will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK, spoke before the agenda today. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-12-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It's almost time for school year closure, but this year's education government certificate is no more beautiful than the previous ones. One of the most important skills to learn in education is the ability to solve problems. Unfortunately, this is missing from today's Hungarian government. He is unable to face problems and is unable or unwilling to help them. Obviously, Mr. Secretary of State will answer that this is just some sort of opposition mood, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that now not only teachers say that what is going on in education is not okay, not only do parents vote with their feet when they leave the public education system, and more and more people choose private schools or even non-school learning, but also the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has pointed out the problems in education on the basis of facts. Let me mention some of these. For example, one of the most important objectives of the European Union is to reduce the number of students who have a problem with basic reading, who are unable to understand the text, who are badly included in the PISA study. The aim is to reduce this rate to less than 10%. In Hungary, the proportion of such students who have no chance of success in their further studies is 25 percent. One in four Hungarian students... [[To Dr. Bence Rétvári:]] If you don't believe me, Mr. Secretary, you should check with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. It is no coincidence, by the way, that they shamelessly did not allow the report of the Academy to be discussed at the plenary session of Parliament. The situation is similar to that of those in school at the age of 16, which has decreased from 99 percent to 91 percent, thanks to your education policy, or even the percentage of those leaving school without a degree, which has increased from 12 percent to 10 percent. And I could go on for a long time. For example, Mr. Secretary of State boasted a long time yesterday about raising educators' wages, but the real situation is that the average wage for intellectuals was 350 thousand forints and 309,000 forints in education. There is a greater difference, Mr State Secretary, than it was before the crisis in 2008. They haven't even recovered the loss caused by the crisis and your education policy. Earlier, a teacher made 1.9 times the minimum wage, today this ratio is only 1.4 times. Yesterday, Mr Secretary of State boasted about the resources spent on education, and the real situation is that while, according to Eurostat, the expenditure on education was 5.5 per cent in 2010, they managed to reduce it to 4.6 per cent, and now they have had great difficulty holding back to 5.2 per cent. Thus, even the damage caused by the crisis could not be recovered, while, for example, 1.5 per cent of preschool education was spent in 28 EU countries, only 1.3 per cent of GDP in Hungary, the situation in secondary education is similar, where Hungarian GDP-related expenditure is 0.4 per cent less. And what is your problem-solving ability? How does Minister Kasler respond to all these problems, what are his solutions? For example: education should be strengthened rather than education, the transfer of the curriculum should be accelerated. The purpose of education is for children to pursue a good relationship that can lead to marriage. In addition, they want to strengthen patriotic education in education, and there is also a special government commissioner. We know, of course, that you are only a patriot who votes for Fidesz, who supports Fidesz. No doubt what this patriotic education will be about. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Pestively speaking, you can't be that stupid for free. You have a political intention to destroy education, not to raise usable, successful students, but to reduce the opportunities for students and young Hungarians to rise. I know, of course, that the Secretary of State will say that Minister has also said many other nice things, but the fact is, my dear Secretary of State, that if we attach a ribbon of national colour to a piece of Pálpusta cheese, it will still smell the same. And you will also say, Minister of State, that you will certainly have little respect for reality for the last eight years, the performance of left-wing liberal governments, only the case, Mr State Secretary, that another eight years have passed since then. At the end of eighth grade, the protestor wasn't kind enough, at least pathetic. I suggest that you stop this and finally face the real problems of education and seek real solutions for this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-06-12-2	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2018-06-12-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's ability to solve the problem in the field of education was very tested by you when you left the public education system closed down in hundreds of locations, schools. [[Gergely Harvesto: How many have you opened?]] They've laid off 15,000 teachers and taken a month's wages, honourable Member. This was indeed a big problem, with your government leaving 12 thousand billion forints of debt in the municipalities, precisely because of the underfunding of schools, hospitals and social institutions. We had to remedy this, and we were able to remedy that, because while you took a month's wages from teachers in your time, we started a teaching career, and we increased the wages of teachers by 1.5 times, first of all, among the various sectors of public finances, we started the education program in schools. And you are comparing the wages of teachers to the minimum wage, which is, on the one hand, very right, but you forget to tell me, honourable Member, that while you were raising the minimum wage by millimeters, the Fidesz-KDNP administration doubled the minimum wage. Now it makes sense to compare the teacher's wages to him, because the benchmark has doubled, and compared to what you said, I still think it's nice. With regard to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences: you know, honourable Member, that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has been part of the negotiations since the establishment of the round table for public education. The problems that have arisen have been discussed together with the Academy of Sciences, the legislative proposals that Parliament has adopted here in the last two years in connection with some of the transformational parts of public education, all of them have already been at the round table of public education, so they have all attended the members of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences who have been delegated to the round table of public education, and so the results that the Parliament has decided on here have come together. So for two years there has been close cooperation, we see much of the problems the same way, we work together in a good part of the solutions, so we try to develop them, including the most modern scientific results, the system of Hungarian public education. And yes, it is an important part of Hungarian public education that it should not only be education, but also education. I do not think that any reasonable person would argue that it is important that students not only receive knowledge at school but also education; of course, the ability to solve problems is also important. We have often said, in connection with the National Basic Training Plan, that the acquisition of skills and the acquisition of material knowledge is equally important, and we add that education is also important, the example; or, for example, patriotic education, because it is very important for each person in school to know their national past, their own national culture, and to feel what it means to belong to the Hungarian national community. And indeed, we need to speed up public education in many ways, because the world has accelerated, and we need to react more quickly to events that are happening around us in the world. [[9.10]] This is why it is important, for example, to introduce Wi-Fi to all classrooms of schools on the super-fast internet by the end of this year. A digitalisation programme has been launched in public education to an extent that was unprecedented and with which we will be able to trust in it by the end of the year as well as worthy competitors to other European countries, since we have been able to distribute not only computers, not only laptops, but also tablets, three-dimensional printers, three-dimensional display devices. To do this, we uploaded digital basic materials to the Smart Portal, the National Public Education Portal, which can be integrated into the course process by teachers, so they can teach students with the most modern tools to get their attention so that they can make the lessons enjoyable and receive at least the visual input that students can receive while using their smartphones. This is a speeding-up of the system of public education, and we trust that it can benefit all students, as well as that more than one million students now receive the textbook free of charge, because it was a market at your time, and they wanted to maximize profits, and we said that these foreign investors should not look for students or families, but that more people should receive their textbooks free of charge; more than one million students will now receive it. In the national public education infrastructure development program we are building schools, gymnasiums, 82 developments started at the first stage, 55 of which were completed, 12 new swimming pools, 22 new gymnasiums, 16 schools expanded with new gymnasiums, 4 completely new schools and 1 new kindergartens were built in this program, so it is noticeable and visible that not only the teachers' wages have increased, we are trying not only to deliver the curriculum to students with the most modern tools, but we are also trying to improve the operating conditions of the schools. I mean, there wasn't a school district during last summer's holiday where there was no school bench change or renovation or renovation, and I don't think there's gonna be a school district where there isn't. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And for the break, I wish everyone who has worn out the school benches during the year to have a very good time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Zita Gurmai, the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-12-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak about a case that's been on the clock for four years. Shortly after the elections Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced that he wants to conclude a contract with Hungarian women, because the government wants to increase the number of births. I do not think it is absolutely desirable for politics to walk around the Hungarian women's bedroom, but I am pleased to see that there is at least one issue in which the opinion of women matters to you. I hope that this new sensitivity to women will lead you to finally hear the loud cry for help of Hungarian women, for example, to hear the message of the Angel News movement, which has planned a march again at the end of the last week. The Angel News Walks are initiated by the Seres Barbara whose child the Hungarian authorities could not protect. We can throw statistics, but today I want to talk about Barbara's son, the six-month-old Adam. She was six weeks old when the father first laid a hand on the mother. She was four months old when the mother turned to family helpers, where she was advised to move to a temporary home in Somogy. You know what I mean? It's not the aggressive father they're keeping away, it's the mother and the child. Adam was five months old when his mother formally asked for distance, but he was told that such a decision would be made when blood was flowing. A month later, the father showed up and there was blood. First he threw six-month-old Adam off the fourth floor, and then you jumped after him. This is happening in Bel-Buda, in the corridor of an apartment building, in the fifth year of Fidesz government. It's been three and a half years since then, and nothing's happened. Hungary has not ratified the Istanbul Convention, and more importantly, it has done nothing to prevent domestic violence from happening, so that innocent women and children do not die simply because there is no one who can officially stop these terrible processes. Because it's true that it's undesirable for the government to walk around in the bedrooms, but if there's a crime there, it's still an obligation. It is the state's job, as we often hear from the Prime Minister, to protect its citizens. And until a separate law is passed that only men are the citizens of the state, until they declare that women can be confused with blind comonitors, the state must also protect women. The current victim protection system is insufficient because it cannot guarantee the safety of abused women and children. On 14 March 2014, Hungary signed the Istanbul Convention, but to date it has not ratified it, even though it is a solution to the problems that affect Hungarian women and where the government abandons its own citizens. The designated responder will list the three new victim protection centers that will be established in the country. This is the right step on the part of the government, as 10 percent of the required seats were not available before. However, hiding the victims is not enough, violence itself must be eliminated. Fighting domestic violence can never focus solely on the victim. Effective action, police action against the perpetrator is at least as important. Pál Völner's statement in November last year that the government was no longer concerned with ratification of the convention in the cycle did not fill me with joy; therefore, for six months the government was sitting on its laurels, while at least one woman in Hungary dies every week. The establishment of an efficient system will not cost more than half a stadium. I hope that the budget law due next week will already be able to see the resources set aside for the new system. The abuse of women is not a political issue, but a question of civilization. From this point of view, the Orbán government is leading our country further away from the civilized world. The Fidesz government protects women's abusers when it refuses to ratify the Istanbul Convention. Let's just say, as long as that's the case, the Orbán government is an accomplice to the unsub in every case of female abuse. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-6	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2018-06-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Even in the middle of his speech, he may have created the opportunity to agree, but in the end, I think he completely took away the possibility; what he said at the end, I absolutely refuse. The most important thing for the government is that everyone in Hungary lives safely, both men, women, older people and children. We want to create a safe life for everyone. And I think that this government has done a great deal in the last eight years, whether here in Parliament or in the government, to help everyone who is vulnerable, who is in a difficult situation, who has been intimidated in any way, to provide more tangible assistance than previously available. Because you have stood up here, honourable Member, but your faction has long been here in Parliament, and I recall that you may have been here as a Member of Parliament, and then the amendment of the Criminal Code in connection with the violence has not been adopted. They had the majority of them in Parliament. There were two thirds of them, and the penal code was left untouched in this circle instead of helping women who were abused. Why didn't they do it then? Why did Hungary have to wait for a Fidesz-KDNP government to remember that from 2011 or 2013, the penal code may contain the concept of relationship violence and protect those children, protect those women, protect women who are trying to put in a difficult situation or force them into an inhuman situation, either physically, financially or psychologically? This could have been done in previous years, but they didn't; Fidesz-KDNP did so, here in Parliament tabled the amendment, of course the MSZP faction did not support this criminal code, the new code. [[9.20]] However, we have introduced the state of the violence of relationships, precisely so that everyone, most of all, in Hungary, feels safe. And we have not only touched the penal code in one place, since not only children or women, but also the elderly, are a group that is particularly exposed to criminals or to the cruelty of various coercive or other criminals. Therefore, they are included in the highly protected categories so that older people, children and women can feel more protected in the Criminal Code. Indeed, he well listed that there are new victim protection centers, there are already secret safe houses called Shelter house in the international language, precisely because anyone who has to run away and move to such a secret place, so that they can't catch up with him, has an opportunity. Just why did you not tell your fellow Members, honourable Member, that when we introduced this new category of protection in the social law, not only the possibility of legal action under the penal code, but this state-supported possibility of hiding to support it in Parliament by opposition parties? Why couldn't they press yes when amending the social law? What you've said here, with 60 percent of what I think all reasonable people agree with, except for 40 percent at the end. But when it comes to voting as a Member of Parliament, why are they not just as determined? We have also tried to quadruple the number of family and child welfare services, so that when financial difficulties or other problems arise in the life of the family, families can get there more easily, quickly and in a shorter physical distance, not only those who are being tortured by some kind of violence, but also those who are in material deprivation, find help closer when the social care system can help them. And we strive to show up in schools, to identify the problem there, and to help families from when it is not necessary, obviously not interfering with the family's everyday affairs, but still to help everyone. If you look at our European Union resources, to a very large extent we use these resources precisely to protect women and to protect victims, so that experts and trained experts can provide substantial help in as many places as possible, not only a physical place where they can live their life without threat to the individual man or to others, but also provide concrete mental health assistance, help in getting into work, help in raising the child, help in dealing with violence. Before 2010, these funds were spent on subway 4 and part of it was stolen, lured away. We didn't spend this on such projects after 2010, but we created victim protection centres, places where we could really help these women, these women, these children; as in other areas, whether I look at the situation of women or encourage part-time employment, as well as record female employment, the job protection action plan, we all wanted to improve the situation of women. I think these were tangible steps, and for all Hungarian women, whether they were threatened by violence or not, they have established a safer country in the last eight years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Why can only fidesz oligarchs benefit from solar support? Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, made a statement before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2018-06-12-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, So far, the issue of the environment has not been of much interest to the government, nor has Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. There is nothing more evidence of this than the closure of the Ministry of Environment in 2010, and the institutional system of environmental protection has been severely weakened. It is not for nothing, because it is the only way to put short-term economic interests ahead of the environment that protects people's health. There are exceptions, of course, as there is now, but only in cases of money, a lot of money. That's how the government found a new area where it could further enrich the business circles and oligarchs close to Fidesz. It is a pity that this has trapped our backward solar sector. Hungary is the country where, despite the favourable solar conditions, there are fewer solar cells than the gloomy, foggy Scotland. In Hungary, the simple citizen encounters a solar tax, a record high tax and a complex administration when he wants to install a solar battery on the roof. However, there is reason to expect the government to remove all obstacles to the use of green energy. On the one hand, because this was promised in their election programme in 2010 and on the other hand, if we want energy independence, climate protection, cheap and clean energy production, there is no better solution than renewable energy, according to international experience. However, the government's aim is apparently not to ensure the country's secure and environmentally sound energy supply, but, unfortunately, to further enrich those close to the government and family members. This is the only explanation for the inability to re-open an EU-supported solar contest immediately before the elections, on 9 March, which was previously suspended for one day, and then closed a day later, on 10th. Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who is familiar with the world of similar applications knows precisely that successful applications are preceded by lengthy preparations. The tender procedure alone was 87 pages long, and the appropriate tender documentation takes months to complete. This also precludes all those who have not been informed on informal channels that the day will come when pre-prepared applications can be submitted for one single day. It is worth looking at who has received support in the cynically called SME-energy loan application. The aim of the European Union, with the money of European taxpayers, to support such proposals... is clearly not to increase the assets of NER millionaires and billionaires. The EU wants to provide long-term cheap and clean energy sources for small and medium-sized enterprises. According to press information, this was developed differently, István Tiborcz, a business partner of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, the family of János Pócs Fideszes, László Szíj, one of the business partners of Lőrinc Mészáros's right-hand man, and the CEO of a state company. This was irregular even according to Hungarian regulations, not only because of the obvious inside information, but also because, according to the relevant government decree, the suspension of the possibility to submit or the closure of the call is possible only from the third day after the publication of the decision. Who is responsible for this scandalous application program? In the first round, the Minister of National Economy, who was then Mihály Varga, as well as the executive, the Hungarian Development Bank. But the real responsibility is, of course, the Orbán government, which uses the EU's support options to finance its clientele instead of spreading the use of renewable energy sources. Real SMEs are not really interested in the government, as is shown by the fact that in recent weeks the regulation on mandatory take-over of renewable energy has been amended, effectively excluding solar power plants below 500 kilowatts from authorisation. This is also unacceptable because many tens of thousands of families who can supply energy to themselves and their environment are a strong building block for a stable domestic economy and society. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-12-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2018-06-12-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian government is committed to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. It shows this intention to spend 60% of the available development resources on economic development in the 2014-2020 development cycle. Our aim is to ensure that Hungarian-owned companies have greater added value, because the more secure this fund is, the more secure the structure is, the stronger it is against possible negative economic turns, crises and crises. The Fidesz-KDNP government has not only helped and helped businesses and Hungarian families by reducing taxes and contributions and reducing administrative burdens, but also by helping developing and innovative companies to generate cheap energy. As a result of the industrial reduction, the government has already implemented important measures both in terms of energy prices and in terms of energy efficiency of industrial companies. [[9.30]] I am thinking of 50 percent for small companies, 40 percent for medium-sized enterprises and 30 percent for large companies for energy efficiency investments. It also provides significant grants from EU funds to small and medium-sized enterprises for energy efficiency investments and the use of renewable energy. This is also the goal of the project, which you called "GINOP SME Energy Credit" which you have previously canceled, with a total amount of more than HUF 55 billion. The priority objective of the call is to increase the competitiveness of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not or do not have sufficient access to funding, by creating modern product and service development capabilities. The loan scheme supports investments that generate electricity for production using renewable energy sources. The tender was announced on 7 December 2016, and from that date the tendering conditions were open to interested companies at www.palyazat.gov.hu and www.mfb.hu. The two consortiums operating the network of MFB points indicated that the programme would continue to be accompanied by significant interest beyond the already fixed applications, and interested parties expected that it would be possible to submit new claims after the evaluation of the applications already received. It was a very good feedback for the success of the programme that new applications were fixed beyond expectations during the reopening. Following the decision to increase the framework on 15 December 2014, the intermediary partners were kept informed of the expected reopening, so that all companies interested in the loan scheme could receive information on them at MFB points. Accordingly, the companies were prepared to wait for the programme to be reopened with pre-arranged applications. A total of HUF 23,7 billion of funds were received for 147 projects with a budget of more than HUF 12 billion, and the programme was suspended on 10 March 2018 due to the overshoot. The interested parties were informed about this in the development policy department of Palyazat.gov.hu. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At the same time, it is safe to say that in Hungary, renewable energy production below 50 kilowatts is one of the most supported in the EU through salvo clearing. With this opportunity, the government will particularly promote local self-sufficiency in terms of green electricity production. Both SMEs, municipalities and the population can make use of the salon clearing. According to statistical data, this option has also been used in recent years, as the number of small domestic-scale power plants and their built-in capacity have increased dramatically. Thank you very much for your question and your attention. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-12-12	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. János Volner, representative of Jobbik, applied for a pre-meeting speech: It's an address. You have the floor.
u2018-06-12-13	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak primarily to the pro-government representatives. As you know, in Hungary, motorists can meet fuel prices around 400 HUF around petrol stations. This in Europe, I would add, is not an outstanding amount, there are significantly higher petrol prices in Europe's richest states. However, it is important to see that the fuel prices in Hungary are extremely high either in terms of wages or in terms of economic performance, especially in comparison with Western Europe. It is worth considering that a Western European citizen earns six or seven times as much money as a Hungarian citizen in the same job, and is fueling his car for approximately as much as this Hungarian man who earns much less than he can. It is also important to see that fuel costs are one of the biggest burdens for a large number of businesses immediately after wages. These fuel costs are, of course, incorporated into the company's prices. If the fuel cost is high, it will impair the competitiveness of the companies in question, thus contributing to the failure of the Hungarian national economy to perform well enough. It is important to see that since the Orbán government took office in 2010, there have been several increases in excise duty in Hungary. For example, when LPG, gas-powered cars were hit by an increase in excise duty. People just started doing this, they started using gas cars, because the price was better, and the government increased excise duty in response. The increase in excise duty on diesel was also similar. It is important to see that in the summer of 2009, when the Socialist Government, at the deepest point of the global economic crisis, proposed to raise the VAT rate from 20 to 25 per cent, the Fidesz parliamentary group, once again, opposed the tax increase at the deepest point of the global economic crisis, voted against it, strongly protested. Since then, you have been ruling for eight years, and you have introduced 27 percent VAT on the world record in Hungary, and have made a significant contribution to increasing burdens in Hungary, not only for motorists, but also for the entire Hungarian society. It is important to see that drivers face a number of other burdens. For example, here is the registration tax that the driver has to pay when buying a car when installing a new car. This is a tax that, in many ways, can be regarded as a Hungaricum, because in many other European countries, the same kind of tax has not been paid by motorists. Here's the asset collection fee after that. The owner changes the car, it has to be paid afterwards, practically mandatory for the motorists. Then there is the paying parking, my fellow Members, which is hated in public. It's quite safe to say. In the past, the system of paying parking was still in place for private companies, and now local government associations were set up, and then private companies were involved in the operation, so they made sure that businesses close to the government were able to look for themselves. And I'm gonna tell you something, since we're talking about salaries here. It is worth considering that the few square meters of asphalt currently occupied by a passenger car within the city of Budapest earns more than a Hungarian worker who works for minimum wage. Think about it. It earns a few square meters of asphalt, thanks to your policy as a Hungarian man working for minimum wage. Do you think that's okay? Is that all right? Is that practical? There have been a lot of references in policy debates to the role of a traffic controller in the paid parking system. What I do see, however, is that this does not matter at all, nor does it make any sense in its present form. P+R parking places should be built, public transport should be developed to an appropriate level and drivers should be encouraged to put their cars down because they can provide sufficiently advanced services to them. So I'm asking the government to do something to make sure that the burden of the motorists doesn't continue to grow. Will you do anything to make our economy more competitive, even by reducing excise duty? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-14	Thank you, Congressman János Volner. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2018-06-12-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Fuel prices are an eternal issue in Parliament. In general, the formula is that if the fuel price is high or rising, the opposition blames the government for that. There is high excise duty, at all, poor government economic policy, tax policy, and that, no, the opposition proposes to reduce taxes. [[9.40]] And if the fuel price is low, it is not the result of the government at that time, but, interestingly, according to the opposition, it is also due to world market conditions. What I see is that the fuel price in the Jobbik Group is once again at the forefront of Parliament because of a real topic and a very incomplete proposal from the opposition. Why am I saying this? I say this because, obviously, all parliamentary parties know that the government has virtually no impact on fuel prices, since the regulation of excise duty is set by EU minimums [[Dr. István Apáti: Just one phone call! Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] However, there is clearly no special tax rate applicable to fuels in respect of, say, VAT. What is the reason why the fuel price is currently rising, and is now falling, is around 400 forints, the clear answer is that the purchase price of oil has determined it, which has increased from $60 a barrel to $80 a barrel in the last six months. If we compare the policy of Hungary, the Hungarian government, with that of other countries, such as comparing the rate of excise duty, then we can see that one of the lowest rates of excise duty in the European Union is in Hungary. For example, the excise duty on petrol is 51 percent higher in the neighbouring country, Slovakia, or 42 percent higher in Slovenia. I don't think there's such a difference in living standards between countries. The rate of excise duty is 29 percent higher in the Czech Republic and 35 percent higher in Croatia. It is not true, therefore, that excise duties are high in Hungary on an international basis. At the same time, if we compare fuel prices on 4 June with those of the EU countries, we see that fuel prices are 14.8 percent higher in Slovakia, 7.9 percent higher in Slovenia and 14.2 percent higher in Croatia than in Hungary. We must therefore say that Hungary is not ashamed of any international comparison either with regard to excise duty or with regard to fuel prices. And if we add that, with regard to commercial gas oil in Hungary, trucks and buses over 7.5 tonnes may be reclaimed from excise duty and the VAT on gas oil used for business can be fully recovered, I believe that the government's economic policy and tax policy can also be assumed in this area. You mentioned the acquisition fee as a special burden. I can say that in Hungary there is no need to pay a vehicle purchase fee in the case of the acquisition of ownership of buses, semi-trailers, trucks and trailers, or in the case of the acquisition of ownership of environmentally friendly cars, so the government's tax policy also benefits in this area. And as far as consumption and wages are concerned, you have had an EU wage signature initiative that has failed. I would have thought that this would have taught us, and the same failed policy wouldn't have been brought here again. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In front of the Parliament and continue to do so, because that's what Jobbik does. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-12-16	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the representative of the Dialogue, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:. What does the government do for young people? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-12-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, I think that if we are talking about Hungarian young people, Hungarian young adults, we are at a rather critical time. Hundreds of thousands of people leave the country, the most skilled, the most vibrant people in the world are starting a family abroad. If we look at this country in 10 to 20 years, there won't be anyone to take this country on their back. I think this is a critical period and we need to move forward. But let's look at the statistics. According to Eurostat, 610 thousand Hungarians lived in other countries of the European Union in 2017. Statistics show that emigration has increased over the last 10 years. While in 2007 1.6 percent of Hungarians lived abroad, in 2012, this figure was 2.4, and today it reached 5 percent. We are not talking about people who are not in the official statistics, so this figure is expected to be much higher, or we are not talking about our fellow countrymen who go to Austria or the surrounding countries to work. Sooner or later, they're probably gonna move out of here and start a family somewhere else. But population statistics are also devastating. In 2017 the birth rate increased by 1.6 percent compared to 2016 and death by 3.7 percent. The latter, I think, is more due to the health situation. We'd like to deal with that later. As a result of emigration, labour shortages have also become a pressing issue. According to KSH data, 79 400 jobs were vacant in the first quarter of 2018. That's 19,500 more than the same period of the previous year. While unemployment is 4 percent and hundreds of thousands of people are involved in the public work programme, there is a shortage of workers. I think this is a very serious structural problem that the government has to deal with. I know the government thinks it can solve anything and doesn't deal with this problem in particular. It also proves that the. Come home, young man! The programme, with the help of which 105 out of 100 million forints were brought home, failed and stopped, but I think that we should cooperate on this issue and we need a national consensus. I also know Fidesz wants to steer for the next 10 years, but I wouldn't bet on that. I think that this issue can be resolved through multi-cycle plans. I therefore think that Parliament's parties should sit down, that all opposition parties should put their proposals on the table to remedy this problem. The Dialogue has forward-looking proposals on this issue. I think that if Fidesz is serious about this, it could set up a case-by-case committee to resolve this issue. We're in the 24th hour. We must act, because not only the voters, but also our children later will ask what we have done to achieve this. Thank you for the floor. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-06-12-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I'm right about your name, aren't I? [[Car-Cake Olivio nods.]] Fine, thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Csaba Dömötör will respond.
u2018-06-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your representativeship and wish you good work on this otherwise beautiful and responsible task. [[Car-Cake Olivio nods.]] As to your speech, we do not want to be partners in qualifying the Hungarians who make use of the possibility of working abroad, but I would like to say this to you because you forgot one important thing, that last year more Hungarians came home than they started working abroad, and, given the proportions of Central European countries, Hungarians do the least work abroad. That's part of the statistics. At the same time, I am very pleased that you brought up the young people's cause, or, as you said, the young adults. We work so that all young people in Hungary can find their potential, their calculation and their location. So it doesn't matter what results we can produce. Allow me to mention the most important things, say, seven. It was this government that reduced youth unemployment by half compared to 2010. In many countries of Europe, young people are being talked about as a lost generation, and we have not allowed that to happen. [[9.50]] It was this government that launched an unprecedented family support programme, including tax cuts, such as a significant tax relief for young married people. And this is the government that replaced the terrible foreign exchange loan with a new home creation programme. The aid may also be used for apartments used. Of course, we know very well that a significant proportion of young people do not have a family establishment at the time of having children, so the steps that concern them are not limited to family support measures at all. Allow me to give you some other examples. It was this government that, in several steps, reduced the VAT on the Internet to 5 percent and launched major developments in order to get broadband to every corner of the country. We also provide help for studies: student loans improved, the language exam is free in 35 years, and the KRESZ exam will be free in 20 years. As far as education is concerned: in spite of all opposition claims, the fact is that we spend 38 percent more on educational matters than in 2010, that is exactly HUF 428 billion, which is no small difference. There is no way around the housing of students. Therefore, it is an important fact that 37 000 dormitory seats will be renewed or created by 2023. And there is one more important thing that I would like to tell you, and that is the question of sport and health. We have a lot of debate in this, but it's worth all this debate, because what we're in now is the most important program for the development of sports facilities in recent decades. There are about a hundred places in the country where gymnasiums, sports halls, swimming pools and swimming pools are being renovated. Now I do not mention in detail that the VAT on festivals has been reduced Hungary is now a festival-great power, and major transport developments are also taking place. In addition, the Czech Tamás programme has been working for many years, which supports emerging orchestras. They affect young people's daily lives one way or another. We're not saying this is enough, but you can't say it's nothing. And, by the way, we do not think that the political action in the case of young people is to relax in gymnastics in Parliament or to be forced to troll. We acknowledge that this is the case, if others believe that this is political action, but we would remain in the meaningful work, also because we believe that Hungary is ahead of a great era, and this era can be great if the youngest generation becomes more and more involved in this. We will try to give you all the support and the opportunity to do so. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-20	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Responsible for the preservation of the mother tongue education rights of the Transcarpathian Hungarians." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-12-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our law on witnessing for national cohesion stands in favour of thinking in a united Hungarian nation and confirms Article D of the Fundamental Law, which represents responsibility for the fate of Hungarians living outside the border. On 4 June 2010, the law came into force, and thanks to the consistent stand of the Fidesz-KDNP government, the way it stood up for the educational rights of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia in connection with the Ukrainian education law, the first visible result of which was 4 June, after the day of national integration, now, on 5 June 2018, the first meaningful consultation between the Hungarian interest protection organisations in Transcarpathia and the new Minister for Education, Lilija Hrinevich. I would also like to say that, as an international lawyer, I find it unacceptable that Ukraine, which is a member of the Council of Europe, has ratified international minority protection treaties such as the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, and that the bilateral treaty concluded between the two countries in 1991, intends to adopt a law on education that practically eliminates the possibility of learning of national minorities in their mother tongue from the 5th grade, thus the traditional education network in Ukraine. According to current knowledge, there are 71 Hungarian institutions in Ukraine between 2016 and 17 and 27 institutions in which students can learn Hungarian. This represents a total of 16,275 students studying Hungarian. We know that in December 2017, the Venice Commission issued its opinion on Article 7 of the Ukrainian Education Act, in which it drew attention to the need for Ukraine to start consultation with national minorities without delay and to ensure that the new Education Act does not apply to private institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, The national political achievements of the Fidesz-KDNP government are indisputable, part of which is the kind of stand you have shown over the past three quarters of the year in relation to the Ukrainian educational law, showing how self-evident our obligation under the Fundamental Law is in the mindset of a Christian Democratic government. The diplomatic struggle and offensive represented by the Hungarian government in international organisations, the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe is respectable and we see its first results. Ukrainian President Petro Porosenko also withdrew his proposal for an amendment to the Citizenship Act, which would have withdrawn Ukrainian citizenship from dual citizens who participated in the elections of other countries, and the new Minister of Education outlined the bill under which Ukraine would push the implementation and application of the Education Act to 2023, as well as the bill stating that this educational law will in practice not apply to private institutions. In the above steps, the Hungarian government has strong, consistent and non- conflict-fearing national policy and diplomacy for Hungarians and Hungarians from beyond the borders. Thank you for allowing me to witness these results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-22	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2018-06-12-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Perhaps it is worth highlighting first of all the most important sentence of the Hungarian position; I would like to start with this too. If you like, the groundwork sounds like you can't take a minority right away. This is also contrary to Ukraine's bilateral agreements and international commitments. In the case of Transcarpathian Hungarians, we have three things to talk about. The first is the Education Act, which you mentioned. The previous education law created the opportunity for a minority student to use his mother tongue from 3 to 23 years of age, so if you like, until the end of higher education. This is permitted by the new law only until the end of the junior year. Of course, we find this unacceptable. If it is indeed the intention of the Ukrainian legislator and the Ukrainian government to speak better to the students of nationality, learn better Ukrainian, then the Ukrainian must be taught at a higher level as a foreign language to the students of nationality. By the way, Hungarian teachers in Transcarpathia have repeatedly put initiatives on the table, which have always been swept off the Ukrainian side. The second point to talk about is the language law. The former language law, which was repealed by the Ukrainian Constitutional Court, created the possibility that if the proportion of a national community in a given region reaches 10%, this community may use its mother tongue in official administration, cultural life or even in certain segments of the media. There are currently several language bill proposals on the table in Ukraine, of course we all know them; they are all much worse than the previous regulation, each of which would link the previous 10 percent threshold to at least 30 percent. The third point is the Citizenship Act. We also find it unacceptable to take Ukrainian citizenship away from members of communities with the nationality of NATO countries simply because they exercise their rights arising from the nationality of NATO. You are right that this draft has been withdrawn at the moment, but we are not so terribly calm. It should also be mentioned that after all of this, we have not even talked about the fact that KMKZZ's office in Ungvár for one month is more precisely: they may have tried to blow it up twice in a few weeks, but unfortunately they have succeeded. [[10.00]] After all, the Hungarian government's position is that, although the government has previously supported Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration, we are currently unable to support neither NATO nor EU integration. We expect the rights of the minority to end and the rights already taken will be returned in Ukraine. However, I must also say that the Hungarian Government is not interested in debate, but in the agreement. There are 150,000 reasons for this, for accepting the conflict and for reaching an agreement. Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó discussed two weeks ago with Pavlo Klimkin, a Ukrainian colleague in the United States, and the two Foreign Ministers agreed to establish an intergovernmental working group. The first meeting is expected to take place in Beregszász in the second half of June. This task force will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. The member of the working group is, by the way, the two Ministers of Education, the two Foreign Ministers and the leaders of Transcarpathian Hungarians. It is also a positive development, as you mentioned, that there was indeed the first meaningful consultation between the Ukrainian Minister of Education and the leaders of Transcarpathian Hungarians. As a positive change is the recent extension of the implementation period of the Education Act by the Ukrainian Parliament's Education Committee until 2023. We are waiting here for Ukrainian parliamentary confirmation, and we are also looking forward to what this is about exactly. We insist that implementation will not begin in any way until 2023, during which time they will negotiate with minorities, find a solution, and start to implement this common solution after 2023. I would therefore also like to assure Transcarpathian Hungarians that they are not alone in this situation. You can count on the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course. This is also true of all other Hungarians who are in trouble abroad. Perhaps once again to the beginning, to the most important: the acquired minority right cannot be taken away if the infringement is completed, minority rights are given back, the Hungarian government is happy to support Ukraine's Euroatlantic integration efforts again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-24	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Member Richard Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, has applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Danger or possibility of the UN Global Migration Package? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-12-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At the moment, the greatest challenge for Europe is clearly the threat and the threat of terrorism and the social burden involved. Our children, our grandchildren, our faith and our Christian culture are at stake in the fate of our nations. This is increasingly recognised in the European Union, and I believe that the results of the elections in the Member States over the past few years are good. There is no other way in our country, because in recent years the Hungarian people have repeatedly expressed their intention that national sovereignty is important to us, and we want to decide who we want to live with and who we do not. The Hungarian government was one of the first to recognise the dangers of illegal migration, and despite criticism and many attacks, I believe that it has fought effectively. Although we were still alone in many ways in 2015, more and more Member States are now adopting the Hungarian opinion, it is enough to think only of our allies in Visegrád, Austria or the Italians. But what is the secret of seeing Europe's future unchanged in the Brussels institutions? There are many reasons, but one of them is certainly that in the last elections to the European Parliament in 2014, this issue was not as pressing as it was after 2015. Indeed, many of the Union's governing bodies are not really seeing the dangers of migration in the face of the European public opinion. We find that, in cooperation or in cooperation with the political bodies that they manage, the press, organisations that often represent themselves as civilians, and researchers who work as scientists, come up with proposals that would increase the number of illegal immigrants they receive. We know that in May 2019 a new European Parliament may be elected, but the current majority, including the Hungarian representatives elected in the left-wing opposition, will do everything in their power to call it resettlement, joint action or anything else, and to make the society of the EU Member States irreversible. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, we have to fight pro-Migration organisations not only in the European Union, because the United Nations also saw the time to create its global migration package. This package makes migration seem about natural and considers it necessary for illegal migration to be replaced by resettlement and legalised entry through different channels. I think we have nothing against it, we can't have a problem with the fact that the best answer to a global challenge is a global solution, but we already have a problem with the fact that so-called solutions with global focus always seem to be an instrument of pro-implantation forces. The pro-immigration forces will use everything they can to push through and accept these migration-supporting proposals everywhere. On 18 April, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on safe, orderly and regulated migration by the UN. So, ladies and gentlemen, what we see here is that the work at the level of the European Union and the United Nations is indeed compatible, as if strengthening the common goal of resettlement. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it doesn't matter how we want to solve the problem of migration in Europe. The UN migration package is constantly changing and evolving, and the representatives of the Hungarian government have already participated in several consultations on this subject. I think that it is in our fundamental interest not only to treat, disperse and actually organise migration by the UN, but also to try to stop illegal migration. It's in our mutual interest. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-26	Thank you, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2018-06-12-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Let's look at the events in a row. In 2016, the UN Member States agreed to prepare and adopt two documents at the 71st session of the UN General Assembly. One is global compact on refugees and the other is global compact on migration. It is planned that this document, which you mentioned, will be finalised in December 2018 at an intergovernmental conference in Morocco and will then be adopted by the UN General Assembly in the form of a resolution. The first text of the migration compact was published on 5 February. If we analyse the draft, then I can join what the Vice-President of the Group has said here's what we see. According to the spirit of the draft text, migration is inevitable, and it is a positive phenomenon that needs to be regulated. There is a strong ambition to widen the legal channels of migration. The focus on human rights is almost exclusive. There is an extremely small emphasis on border management and border protection. There is no mention of the negative economic consequences of migration, the local social tensions arising from migration, and the deterioration of public security. And there is no strategic vision of how to ensure a future for those affected in their own country. This is completely biased and therefore unacceptable. Let me give you an example of the text analysis of the draft. The term "human rights" appears in the first version of the draft 40 times, while the term "security" is only 13 times and eight times related to the English language expression of social security. So you can clearly see how distorted and unbalanced the first round draft is. Consequently, this has a catalytic effect, promotes migration and encourages migration. [[10.10]] At the heart of human rights, it claims that the right to migration is a specific right itself; and, thirdly, it takes a step towards global governance of migration at the expense of the nation state and national competence. Many people hide that the tone of the draft convention is not a problem, as it is not legally binding, but I would like to underline it three times in the long term, this convention may be capable of producing indirect effects, and it is entirely independent of whether we take part in its adoption or not. Therefore, Hungary has decided that, despite the withdrawal of the United States from negotiations and the fact that the politicians of the European Union, trapped by the political correctness you referred to and the approach of mainstream in Brussels, are taking action against their own interests, it is taking part in the negotiations and has adopted a 12-point list of principles, with the title "Safe First" for us. These are the basic lists that the government would like to enforce in these negotiations. Migration in its current form is a dangerous process. International efforts should serve the purpose of halting migration processes. Migration is not a fundamental right, but every person has the right to live in peace and security in his own country. Migration is not really good for anyone, only for smugglers, and therefore their business models must be crushed. Each country can decide for itself who is allowed into its territory, and the international community must support countries in preserving their historical, religious, cultural traditions and social arrangements. In addition, every country and this is a very important right to protect its own borders, and it must be made clear that the illicit border crossing is a serious crime. I can inform the Member that the new drafts which have been published since then have been strengthened to a lesser extent from the point of view of the sovereignty of the Member States, and that the outlines of the text have been loosened in several places. This is therefore a positive development for us, because, however, there has not been a significant turnaround in terms of content and structure or in the overall approach to migration to this day. Negotiations are taking place, and the government is still taking part in the compact debate on global migration, with the aim of creating a less biased, balanced document, which is what is needed to make a lasting change in international political public thinking. We do all of this, and Hungary is the first to sign. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the publication of the Memorandum of Understanding on the purchase of diplomatic property until closure. The government referral is T/402. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe.
u2018-06-12-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'm trying to get to the point, not taking full advantage of the time frame. The purpose of the bill is to grant and at the same time publish the authorisation to recognise the mandatory scope of the Memorandum of Understanding on the purchase of diplomatic property between the Hungarian Government and the Government of the People's Republic of China. In the spirit of the policy of eastern opening, the government aims to develop the Hungarian-China relations system in a versatile manner, in which we would like to settle the issue of the purchase of property adjacent to the embassy's residence, which has been on the agenda for a long time, based on the request submitted by the Government of Hungary at the beginning of 2017, as well as on the request of the People's Republic of China. The Beijing embassy has been renting the office building since 1969 from the real estate company of the Chinese diplomatic body. The location of the property is frequented and close to major government institutions, ministries, the European Union delegation, the German, Spanish, Canadian, Swedish embassy, and the Qatari residence is located on the same street in the immediate vicinity. In the early 2000s, the purchase of the embassy property's superstructures and the permanent lease of the site for 70 years was raised, taking into account that the embassy can best meet the government's expectations of the Beijing diplomatic presence in the long term from work and cost-efficiency considerations if it is located in the current housing complex. According to the relevant local legislation, it was possible to use the administrative building complex by concluding leases for 3-5 years. On the basis of the information provided by the Chinese party, the preferential rental arrangement applied by it is expected to cease after the expiry of the current lease contract and the rental fee payable for the complex of immovable property may be marketised. The adjustment to the market price level may result in a multiple increase in the rent, which was also justified by the purchase of the property. It is also worth mentioning that the Chinese administration decided in 2005 to renovate the whole building complex. As a significant investment, in 2013 the satellite communication system, operating as a channel independent of the Internet, was built and in 2015 the embassy's outbuilding was developed. On the Hungarian side, additional justified investment costs are economically reasonable only in the case of long-term use, which can be secured by ownership. The Chinese party confirmed in November 2017 that, although the Chinese State has not authorised individual countries to purchase their rented embassy properties since 2008, the transfer of ownership of the Hungarian embassy property in Beijing has nevertheless been approved due to the mutual agreement between the Hungarian and Chinese government in 2003. As a result of the negotiations, the parties both contributed to the tax-free and tax-free purchase of the properties concerned. Based on the above, the signed international contract brings together the Budapest and Beijing real estate, in a mutually beneficial way for both parties. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-30	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-12-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is the resolution house rule 157. § 1 is one of the legislative proposals for the publication of an international treaty submitted in the previous term, but not adopted due to the proximity of the elections. In view of the fact that there is usually no detailed debate during the negotiation of international treaties, so the adoption and publication of these legislative proposals, I believe that it can take place soon in this House. That is why, in my opinion, it is timely to adopt these legislative proposals, but this is particularly true between our country and China, as Mr Secretary of State has mentioned in relation to the announcement of an agreement on the purchase of diplomatic property. This agreement gives Hungary the opportunity to purchase the rented building used as the Hungarian embassy in Beijing, as well as to purchase the building that is already used by the Chinese embassy in the vicinity of the embassy residence in Benczúr Street in Terézváros. Ladies and gentlemen, From the point of view of Hungary, it is essential to further develop a good relationship with China, I believe that there is no debate between us on which the government has worked a lot over the past few years. With regard to the future of the ever-changing international order, which some researchers believe is anticipating the fight of the Titans, the advance of the major Asian countries, I believe that we can safely say that our relations with China, one of the key figures of this international trend, will continue to be of particular importance in the future. [[10.20]] At present, we see that we are witnessing the cooperation and further development of two dynamically developing regions. It should also be said that the size of the two countries and the dimension in which they are moving are different, but at the same time we can mention that since Central and Eastern Europe has become the continent's growth engine, this has certainly been discovered in time by Chinese capital, which is well shown by the large number of investments made by Chinese companies in this region. And I believe that we can consider Hungary's success to be one of the most competitive investment environments in Europe, and I could say that with its geographical location and the solidarity of the Hungarian people, it has succeeded in achieving the highest number of Chinese investments in this region, and in recent years Hungary has exported the most from the region to China. We also see that since 2010, Hungarian exports have doubled to China, with 50 percent more Hungarian companies exporting to the region than in 2010 and the value of Chinese capital investments reached USD 4 billion in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, The recognition and publication of the mandatory scope of the conciliation agreement signed in Budapest on 28 November 2017 is closely linked to the government's Eastern opening policy, I believe, as the legal fate of our Chinese diplomatic representation is also of great importance for our foreign economic activity. I believe that our achievements so far can only continue to multiply and bring cooperation to a new level. Ladies and gentlemen, But we cannot go beyond the fact that the close cooperation that has taken place so far in institutions such as the 16+1 cooperation that started in Budapest could not have come any closer to expanding the representation in Beijing, we could not have been part of the confidence that China has shown, so it is still important for Hungary to have a clear, forward-looking communication and cooperation. As in the past agreements, I believe they have had a positive impact on our bilateral relations, I believe that the Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries before us on the purchase of diplomatic property will have a similar influence. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Fidesz Group, I therefore urge you to support the bill before us with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-32	Thank you very much, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. I now give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-12-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'll be very brief, too. It is perfectly logical and justified that this proposal, the Jobbik faction, will naturally support it, but, as in so many other respects, I would like to address a very short request or question in the spirit of transparency: if we are allowed to know something about the exact amounts, we would be happy to receive information on this. In the same way that the Secretary of State and Congressman Hörcsik are right about how much more dynamic cooperation between Hungary and China is in the spirit of Eastern opening; whether in terms of exports or other areas and directions of trade, it has been accelerated, more efficient and has a strong economic competence. However, there are areas on which, in the spirit of good faith, there are debates and criticisms due to lack of information. It is enough to think of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, where huge amounts are involved, a huge investment, the extent and role of the Hungarian party's burdens are not entirely clear to the public. I believe that this would be the minimum in terms of such very clear real estate purchases, just as in the case of Eximbank and the Bank of China, bilateral agreements are tried to be presented to the public in as much detail as possible; this was the case when, at the end of last year, the delegation led by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó produced quite serious agreements and documents between the two countries. I think that, avoiding all, say, negative consequences, whether in terms of political, economic or public life, it would be important, in terms of such cooperation, to report as much as possible on the different burdens, profits or losses, if that is the case. It is quite clear that it is necessary and much more rewarding in the medium and long term, if we don't pay rent for a diplomatic property, but if there is a way and opportunity, we buy it, the big question is just what it costs. This, too, obviously, comes from the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian taxpayers' money, and I think we should not save this information, but, as I said, of course we support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-34	Thank you, Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2018-06-12-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The issue of the purchase of the property rented to Hungary's embassy in Beijing and the property in Benczúr Street, neighbouring the Chinese People's Republic's Ambassador's residence, is a long-standing problem. In the early 2000s, the purchase of the embassy's real estate body and the 70-year long lease of the land were already made. The Chinese party confirmed only in November 2017 that, although the Chinese State has not allowed individual countries to purchase their own rented embassy properties since 2008, the purchase of the Hungarian embassy property in Beijing was approved on the basis of the agreement between the Hungarian and Chinese government in 2003 concerning embassy properties. The international treaty brings together the Budapest and Beijing real estate issues and mutually settles the situation of the diplomatic property concerned for both parties. Since Mr State Secretary has answered my questions, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-12-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I do not see a candidate for a two-minute speech, and I do not see any other representatives. However, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No one's come forward to speak. The general debate is closed and I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State says he doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The General Discussion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kazak on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals holding diplomatic and service passports and the draft law on the publication of the Protocol on its amendment signed in Budapest on 28 February 2018 until its closure. The government referral is T/473. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.30]]
u2018-06-12-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Hungarian and Kazakh citizens holding diplomatic and/or service passports are entitled to travel within 30 days under the current bilateral partial visa waiver agreement signed on 7 October 1996. In order to strengthen bilateral relations, it has been justified to increase the visa-free residence of holders of diplomatic and service passports for a period of up to 30 days to 90 days within 180 days, which has taken the form of a protocol amending the existing agreement. A detailed expert consultation has started with the mutual transmission and opinion of the draft texts, resulting in the text of the Protocol acceptable to both parties. The Protocol was signed by Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó here in Budapest on 28 February 2018. The agreement and the protocol were signed in Hungarian, Russian and Kazakh languages, and the law publishes the authentic Hungarian and Russian texts. The Hungarian-Kazakh partial visa waiver agreement concluded in 1996 consists of 7 articles and contained detailed rules for visa-free entry and stay within 180 days for holders of diplomatic and service passports in Hungary and Kazakhstan. In view of the fact that the international treaty has been published in legislation which is currently lower than what is currently required, it is also necessary to publish it in a government decree. The Protocol amending the Agreement increases the number of days of visa-free entry and stay to 90 days within 180 days. It includes requirements for the period of validity of passports, and requires diplomatic and consular missions or members of missions accredited to international organisations, as well as family members living with them in the same household, to obtain a visa from the host State for their accreditation prior to their entry. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-12-38	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-12-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the reciprocal visa waiver for nationals of the Republic of Kazakhstan with diplomatic and service passports and on the publication of the Protocol on the amendment thereof, signed in Budapest on 28 February 2018 The purpose of the bill No 1 is to extend the possibility for Hungarian and Kazakh citizens with diplomatic and service passports to stay without a visa for 30 days under the agreement currently in force. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this dry-looking bill also strengthens bilateral relations. This new agreement is intended to increase the right of a visa-free stay of 30 days so far to 90 days within 180 days, which would be practical for a citizen of one Contracting Party to stay for more than 30 days at the written request of the diplomatic or consular representation of the State of nationality of the other Contracting Party for a maximum period of 90 days. This Agreement shall, of course, state that the Contracting Party has the right, without justification, to refuse entry of a national of the other Contracting Party or to reduce the duration of the stay. The application of the Agreement may be suspended in whole or in part by any Contracting Party for reasons of public policy, public security or public health. Otherwise, the suspension and its withdrawal shall be notified to the other Contracting Party without delay by diplomatic means but not later than 24 hours. The loss or damage to the travel document of a national of the Contracting Party holding a diplomatic or service passport shall be notified to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the other Contracting Party in the territory of the other Contracting Party. Ladies and gentlemen, The Contracting Parties shall have their disputes arising from the implementation of the Protocol, as they may, or may settle their disagreements by consultation, without the involvement of a third State or an international tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, The protocol before us, signed by the Contracting Parties in February 2018, is, I believe, in line with the Government's programme, according to which the fundamental objective of the foreign policy of the Government of Hungary is to promote the country's international weight by consistently representing Hungarian interests in international fora and bilateral relations. To support this policy, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-12-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. I now give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-12-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Again, I will not reveal a great secret by clearly saying that we will support this proposal. Yes! I'm not saying this because of my usual opposition behaviour, but because of the unfortunate events of recent years, what I would like to read in a proposal like this. Normally, this would be a routine motion with a routine and absolute consensus decision. However, ever since that particular case of the Moscow visa factory, it has always been necessary to handle such proposals with caution, and I am really only motivated by good intentions when talking about lack of security passes. It is noteworthy what a problem it was, and let's just say it caused a minimum loss of trust in diplomacy by the Moscow visa factory linked to the name Szilárd Kiss. Obviously, it was uncomfortable for the government, and, of course, it was uncomfortable for the State Department, and it pointed to everyone else in terms of responsibility. However, this was a good case: to admit that there are gaps in that particular shield, and there is certainly something to be done to prevent such cases from happening. When we send citizens and diplomats to foreign service, when we distribute diplomatic passports, obviously from the sound consideration of promoting, deepening and expanding our economic or other trade relations, that is absolutely fine. However, if we do not do everything we can to ensure that at least national security screenings and certain filters are integrated into the system, then there may be cases that I have talked about. One word, like a hundred: I only propose that it be possible not only under the national security law to decide who needs due diligence or who has mandatory national security screening, but also in terms of foreign representation, and even to think about having a higher filter than the current one for the allocation of diplomatic passports, to spot fraudsters such as Szilárd Kiss in Moscow. He has done damage to the Hungarian government, caused damage to Hungarian diplomacy, caused harm to taxpayers, and would not be lucky to have a similar case in the future. Therefore, with the utmost respect, through Mr Secretary of State, I am obviously proposing that we consider a certain filter for the allocation of plain, simple diplomatic passports, where appropriate, in order to avoid the scandals we have encountered in recent years. Of course, we support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-12-42	Thank you, Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-06-12-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill, but I would like to share some points with you. We considered the economic, educational and scientific development of Hungarian-Kazakh relations to be important, but unlike Viktor Orbán, we have never felt or felt more at home in Kazakhstan than in the European Union. [[10.40]] We do not feel what Viktor Orbán feels, that we are politically equal in the European Union, but our family tree is different. We may not have relatives there if we go to Brussels, he said, but we have allies there. If the Hungarian Prime Minister feels more at home in Kazakhstan than in the European Union, it is only due to the fact that his hosts there will not be accountable for the democratic rule of law standards in Hungary. He is obviously also sympathetic to the fact that the Kazakh head of state has always won the elections with a result of around 95 per cent, and now he has the legal right to always resume his post as head of state and even appoint his successor. In view of these statements, it is feared that the Prime Minister, who is obsessed with Brussels but envious of the quarter-century reign of the heads of state in Central Asia, has forgotten that Hungary's accession to the European Union and NATO has been confirmed by a referendum on the basis of a conscious choice of value and responsibility. These values are primarily human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human and minority rights, freedom of enterprise or the protection of cultural, religious and ethnic diversity. Along these lines, Hungary consciously assumed a role and responsibility in the community and federal system of countries with the same values. The Hungarian-Kazakh cooperation and the presentation before us can be judged only on the basis of values and interests. In other words, Hungary can develop its cooperation with other countries, including Kazakhstan or Russia, in a federal system with the community of countries with the same values and in partnership with mutual economic benefits. Accordingly, we agree and support the strengthening and deepening of Hungarian-Kazakh relations, primarily economic, educational, cultural and scientific. Referring to Viktor Orbán's statement above, we hope that the Hungarian government will not seek out the Hungarian-Kazakh kinship in the important Astana, but will create opportunities for Hungarian companies. In terms of bilateral economic relations, however, it is worth noting that, according to KSH data, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus or Kazakhstan are still not or barely reaching the 2008 level in the most important relations in the CIS countries, despite the government's success propaganda. It is even worse if we compare these numbers with Kazakhstan alone. While in 2008, Hungarian exports amounted to $ 403 million, in 2014 they barely exceeded $167 million. For imports, it is worth $11 million in 2008 and $39,9 million in 2014. In the light of the figures, the question arises as to how the Hungarian-Kazakh department of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, established by the Intergovernmental Committee for Economic Cooperation established as a means of developing bilateral economic relations, and how the Kazakh-Hungarian Business Council carried out the tasks entrusted to it in May 2012. In order to highlight the strategic nature of bilateral relations and cooperation, it has recently been decided to set up a strategic council between the two countries. Will you discuss a strategy for declining economic relations between the two countries? In the case of bilateral relations, the possibility of cooperation in education is noteworthy, as besides the possibility of providing Hungarian scholarships to Kazakh students, it would be worth examining the results of the higher education reform in Kazakhstan as a result of which several Kazakh universities were included in the world's top five hundred higher education institutions. The state spends 9.5 times more on education than at the end of the 1990s, while there are significant results in higher education: PhD training approximating western standards, the good position of several universities on international rankings, active foreign relations system. Finally, referring to Viktor Orbán's statement that it is rather strange for people to have to go east to feel at home, I would like to reiterate that we, as members of the EU and NATO, feel at home in Hungary and in the Carpathian Basin, but in the interests of the Hungarian economy we are happy to support the participation of Hungarian companies in Kazakhstan. In order to enhance economic relations, we support the conclusion of agreements that also facilitate legal cooperation between the two countries. In my speech, it is worth recalling some of the elements of bilateral relations. Why did the Hungarian authorities reject Kadesov's request for asylum in the case of the former bank specialist Jerzan Kadesov, which was issued to Kazakhstan? How could the representatives of the Kazakh state visit him in jail if the reason was that the man was a national security risk? Who authorized you to speak on the phone with your former boss, the one who captured you in Turkey and transported you to Kazakhstan? Is the information that the Hungarian state did not agree to meet the man? If so, what is the reason for this, and who made the decision? What is the guarantee that Jerzan Kadesov will be decided by unbiased judicial authorities in Kazakhstan, that he will not be threatened with torture or even death and will not be the victim of a conceptual trial? In view of the memorable statement of the Hungarian Prime Minister, does Jerzan Kadesov, which was issued to Kazakhstan, feel more at home in Kazakhstan than in the European Union? Besides copies of the Kazakh relationship of former Minister of Rural Development Sándor Fazekas and the study on sheep breeding for millions of HUF, who else is in the interest of this proposal? Of course, as I indicated, we look forward to the answers to the questions. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I don't see a two-minute application for a speech, and I don't have a name for any other speeches on the screen. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] There's no contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2018-06-12-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank the pro-government support for the proposals, and I would like to respond, for a sentence or two, to opposition contributions, first in order of opposition, to the contributions of Mr Mirkóczki. Here, too, I would like to thank you for your fundamentally supportive attitude, and I do not doubt good intentions. I would like to say one thing, not pointing out, as you said, to others, but I would like to state the fact that Péter Szijjártó has never, under any circumstances, worked with Szilárd Kiss, and under the leadership of Péter Szijjártó, visa management takes place in order and in compliance with the laws around the world. I would also like to thank Mrs Gurmai for the fundamentally supportive approach. After meeting with a supportive attitude here too, I do not want to start the debate either, but I would like to say that I felt a little bit like the Hungarian government, the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was pursuing diplomacy in the same direction, let us say, to the east. I would like to state that this is not the case. So we're going to continue diplomacy at the same time west, east, or south, if any. I would also like to state what we have said many times, but, let me just say, sometimes the reception of information may not have happened, the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, represents the Hungarian interest. Sometimes the Hungarian interest is to build a diplomatic relationship in the western direction, sometimes to continue in the eastern direction, sometimes to continue the two at the same time, not to miss the southern relation. He mentioned Brussels and mentioned a referendum. I would like to mention one or two important facts. We are not in conflict with Brussels because Brussels is in Europe or lies further west from Hungary. We have a conflict with Brussels at the moment on illegal immigration. There was indeed a referendum in Hungary in this regard, and there was a national consultation, and there was also a parliamentary election. Here the Hungarian people have made it quite clear what they think about this issue, and this is what the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs represent. [[10.50]] And as long as the position in Brussels, and what is still clearly worth looking at is the recent resolutions of the European Parliament and of the various European institutions, that migration is good and must be organised, the Hungarian Government will always act on the contrary, the security of Hungarian people and the sovereignty of the country will always be protected. But this doesn't have anything to do with the west, the east, the south, the north. That is what I wanted to make clear. I ask for the support of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-12-46	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general discussion of the bill on the authorisation and publication of the compulsory application of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Singapore will follow. The government referral is T/387. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2018-06-12-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This bill provides for the publication of an air transport agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Singapore. The purpose of the bill is to incorporate the above agreement with Singapore into the Hungarian legal order. Pursuant to the Act on Procedures for International Contracts, it is necessary to publish the Agreement at a legal level. The Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Singapore was signed on 26 September 2017. The conclusion of the agreement provides a basis for the EU's conformity law to launch flights between the two countries. The Agreement covers rules for the operation of flights in air traffic between the two countries, cooperation between aviation authorities and coordination of aviation safety, including measures to ensure security of persons and property. The signed agreement will facilitate the contribution of air transport to economic cooperation between the two countries and the development of trade and cultural relations. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/387. Adopt the proposed legislation and support the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Singapore. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-12-48	Thank you very much, Secretary of State László Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-12-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us in the previous term, as Secretary of State Mosóczi said, is to authorise Parliament by this law to recognise the mandatory scope of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Singapore. We know that, in accordance with Act L. of 2010 on the procedure for international treaties, the authorisation to recognise the binding effect is merged with the publication into an act, so when the Minister for Foreign Affairs publishes his notice of entry into force in the Hungarian Gazette, this agreement will enter into force immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to say a few sentences about this bill. As you know, the operation of international flights in third countries, i.e. outside the European Union, is based on similar agreements, because, given the specific circumstances of air transport, there is a need to clarify a number of issues that are absolutely necessary to start and operate flights. Well, with the entry into force of this agreement, it will be possible to launch scheduled passenger and freight flights between any international commercial airport in both countries. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us provides for the granting of so-called traffic rights, i.e. that each Contracting Party grants the other Contracting Party the rights set out in this Agreement to operate scheduled international flights on specific routes. However, it is an important restriction that the Agreement cannot be interpreted as giving cabotage rights to designated airlines of one of the Contracting Parties. In the context of designation and authorisation, the parties therefore have the right to designate one or more airlines for the operation of the agreed flights on each specific route. Such appointments shall be made in writing and shall, of course, be transmitted through diplomatic channels to the other Contracting Party. In addition to the withdrawal or suspension of operating licences, the bill also clarifies the submission of timetables for prior approval, and it is very important that it is made clear, in terms of fares, that no Contracting Party can allow airlines of both parties to charge fares which are excessive because of the misuse of the market advantage or, in other ways, to be considered anticompetitive. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to customs and exemption, the present Agreement regulates the monitoring of baggage and cargo by passengers engaged in direct transit through the territory of the Contracting Parties and not leaving the area of the airport reserved for that purpose. Safety and traffic ramp inspections are therefore important in order to maintain aviation safety. Finally, my fellow Members, not least, it contains provisions on the availability of disputes, the priority of consultations or through diplomatic channels, and it will be intended to complement the arbitration procedure with the involvement of an international civil aviation organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, a convention that regulates our air traffic relations with Singapore in a state-of-the-art and well-managed manner can be announced by the Parliament shortly. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-12-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Richard Hörcsik. I now give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-12-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Jobbik's faction always welcomes the opportunities, the relationships regulated by the international treaty, which serve to build Hungary's foreign policy, foreign economy and international relations on the soil of quality on the basis of mutual benefits. With the vote of the Jobbik faction, of course, you will support this agreement. By the way, I regret that, although the Convention was already signed on 26 September 2017, we are dealing with it only now, nine months later. I propose that the initiative to ratify international conventions of this kind be done a little faster, as these conditions serve our country's international interests and economic interests in a far-reaching way. The frameworks set out in such agreements are essentially embedded in the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation on 7 December 1944, and all the conventions that have been concluded by any country in the world since then are based on these standard rules. Moreover, the European Union and Singapore already concluded an agreement in this respect on 9 June 2006. In practice, this current convention creates the bilateral strengthening that creates a closer bond between the two countries within the EU Agreement. [[11.00]] If we look at Article 5 of this Convention, which is about capacity in relation to the two parties, it sets out certain conditions and says that fair and equal opportunities must be provided, that volume cannot be limited and that regularity must be ensured in civil aviation in both countries. It is always very good to read such rules of international conventions, because we must state that, over the last eight years, our domestic relations, domestic market activities, in particular, which are in some way related to public procurement, neither the words of integrity nor equality can generally be said. I am always glad that at least these fair market behaviours can be seen in international relations, since we have to be without them here in Hungary for a long time. Given that a very large proportion of Hungarian citizens are watching these broadcasts from Parliament, I am always very pleased to see the way in which there is some sort of dissemination of knowledge on an issue, especially when there is time. Therefore, if I may, my fellow Members, I would like to say a few words, not to you, but to the members of society, about Singapore's history, its development and its capabilities at all. A hundred years ago, in Singapore, citizens of Singapore lived in pile houses, in extremely dirty, highly polluting conditions, and in fact it can be said that in a hundred years, it has gone through an incredible development that perhaps none of the countries in the world have. Singapore's name is the city of the lion, a symbol of loyalty, perseverance, and strength. I think that this is certainly a characteristic of his economic history. Since 1965, there has been an extremely great development, which has been made by virtually three presidents. Indeed, one president gives the position to another, so it is not really possible to call the political arrangement of the country the peak of democracy, but it is clear that these people represented the international interests of the country to such an extent and in such heights that it has created that today we have an exemplary country, which can be set as an example for all countries in the world. In historical times, the Portuguese and the Dutch wanted to colonize it, and finally, the British had the opportunity to establish authority from 1919. Then he fought for a very long time to be independent in 1965. Indeed, it is an authoritarian state, but what, I must say, is exemplary for Hungary and Hungarian political public life, is that the principle of living and letting live is fully valid. Singaporean citizens are at an extremely high level both in terms of job opportunities and their remuneration and in terms of the social security system, which could be an example for all governments. The value of the work is paid, the country is at peace, the lives and spirituality of citizens are not poisoned with stupidities, but they are confined to the spiritual and spiritual food that makes a country perform extremely well. As I said at the beginning, the Jobbik faction supports this convention and we have the hope that the economic relations between the two countries will be deepened through this convention, which will bring significant benefits to both countries. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-52	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-06-12-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the conclusion of an agreement on air affairs. At the same time, the question arises as to when the company will be able to start the direct flight as a result and which company will be expected to start the direct flight. According to our information, Singapore Airlines is an airline established as a subsidiary for the operation of medium- and long-term low-cost flights in Budapest. Because their growth plans include the launch of flights to other European cities in addition to the existing single flight to Athens. According to government information, bilateral economic relations have increased, but further expansion of economic relations between Hungary and Singapore is an important condition for the final conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Singapore, which must be ratified by both the European Parliament and national parliaments. As a result of the education agreement, Hungarian universities will receive 30 students from Singapore annually. In addition to higher education, however, it is worth paying attention to other levels of education in Hungarian-Singapore relations. According to last year's PISA survey, the education system in Singapore is one of the best and the Hungarian is unfortunately deteriorating. In view of the main trends, it can be said that the four best performing countries are Japan, Estonia, Finland and Canada, but Singapore has surrounded everyone, for example, in the field of natural sciences. Compared to this, the performance of Hungarian students has dropped below average in terms of science, 18 points in terms of interpretation of texts in three years. Overall, we managed to pick up 28-29 of the 35 OECD countries. In light of this, it seems funny that the first of the Hungarian national trading houses was the strong support of the Hungarian export of knowledge on the flag of the Singapore trading house. At his visit to Singapore in September, Viktor Orbán was accompanied by the Minister of National Economy, the Minister of National Development and the Minister of Agriculture, in addition to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. We suggest that next time you take with you the representative of the EMMI Secretary of State for Education, in case you can also make it clear to the wallet why the Singapore education system is truly successful. Speaking of Viktor Orbán's visit to Singapore, it is worth recalling his speech at the Singapore-Hungarian business forum for a sentence, in which he described our country as a country where there is no raw material and natural resources, but there are large and hungry neighbours. We hope this is not why the orchid was named after the Hungarian Prime Minister in the Singapore Botanical Garden for his sentence. In addition to the educational area, there is also untapped cooperation opportunities in the areas of public transport, urban development, digitalisation, water management, trade development and investment promotion. The future launch of a direct flight will hopefully also facilitate successful cooperation in these areas. I think, Congresswoman, It is important to have a historical outlook, since we can see what value it is if we can work together. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-54	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes.
u2018-06-12-55	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, it is very important to examine at least the educational achievements of other countries, and I would also like to suggest how to synchronize them with the Hungarian education system that sometimes operates in medieval conditions. At the same time, I would take advantage of the framework for the general debate on the fact that we have a State Secretary who is able and I think willing to answer the questions raised here. Speaking of air traffic agreements, I would be particularly interested in how the government intends to involve any Hungarian-based company in these processes in its action plan after the waste of Malév at least in questionable circumstances, with what Hungarian-based company, where appropriate in terms of air transport, would like to go deeper into this market by building, raising, taking over and acquiring it. After all, Hungary's positions in this area would be significantly stronger if it could focus on resources in its own hands. In this regard, we are not only asking, but it is clear that we expect the State Secretary's reply. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-56	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-06-12-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the constructive contributions and support, and I do not wish to add anything else. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova amending the Agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until its closure. The government referral is T/410. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-12-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Government presented a bill before you in the previous term to announce a protocol amending the air transport agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova, taking into account Croatia's accession to the EU. Croatia undertook to accede to agreements concluded by the Member States and the European Union with third countries on its entry into the European Union. Accession shall take place under a simplified procedure and by the conclusion of a protocol. Croatia shall accede to the Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova establishing the Common Aviation Area by means of a Protocol signed on 22 July 2015. The Protocol contains a provision on the authenticity of the Croatian text of the Agreement and provisions on the approval and entry into force of the Protocol. The Agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova was signed in Brussels on 26 June 2012. The Agreement is signed by the European Union and its Member States and the Republic of Moldova on the publication of the Agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area in CXCIII of 2012. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. Given that the Protocol forms an integral part of the Agreement, the Protocol should therefore be published in law. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-60	Thank you, Secretary of State László Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-12-61	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, With Croatia's accession, the Agreement on the establishment of the Common Aviation Area concluded by the European Union with the Republic of Moldova had to be amended by signing the Protocol. It is in Hungary's interest to strengthen the Eastern Partnership Programme. This is also in the interest of security, because the more allies the European Union has in the East, the stronger it will be. Our country will also support the Republic of Moldova's European integration efforts and will also contribute to the success of the integration and modernisation processes of the country through international development cooperation programmes. The agreement between the European Union and Moldova on the establishment of the Common Aviation Area aims to establish a common airspace allowing the parties to have reciprocal market access to the aviation market. Hungary also supported the Association and Visa Waiver Agreement with Moldova. The Association Agreement demonstrates the European Union's commitment to further develop political association and economic integration between the two parties in close cooperation with the Republic of Moldova. Croatia shall also be party to the Agreement by signing or publishing a protocol amending the Common Aviation Area Agreement. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-62	Thank you, Congressman Mihály Balla. I now give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-12-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, this set of rules, which we are ratifying today for a number of countries because of the enlargement treaty, is a technical addition on the ground of international law. After Croatia's accession to the EU, many agreements on an agreement between the countries of the European Union or a country should be supplemented by this Protocol. This Protocol was signed in Brussels on 22 July 2018, compared with the submission by the Minister for Development to the House on 29 March 2018. It's almost three years late. We would like to ask with great respect in this respect, and we welcome the fact that these issues have come to a new ministry, so that, if possible, in the future, we should not have to deal with such an issue before Parliament after nearly three years in order to protect the authority of our country, but to try to bring such conventions to the House as soon as possible. The Airspace Agreement with the Republic of Moldova was signed on 26 June 2012. Moldova and the EU have also had a partnership and cooperation agreement since 28 November 1994. It has been extremely important in recent decades to conclude agreements with countries outside the EU that extend the economic relationship between countries outside the EU and EU countries. In this way, both countries outside the EU and EU countries have been better integrated into their own economic circulation. In fact, in the history of Moldova, there was a constant demand that the great powers typically sought to acquire its territory. In fact, the Romans and the Byzantines conquered them for a long time, and there was hardly any great power in the area that would not have wanted to annex Moldova's territory. Finally, in 1359 an independent Moldova was established. But then the 15th. In the century, it was our King Matthias, who felt that our country should conquer them. Many, many battles ended successfully, and then all of a sudden, the end was a failure, and we had to retreat. Then the 16th. Moldova joined different empires from the century, and from 1819 it was actually attached to Russia, giving them a degree of independence or autonomy, but then, a few years later, strong Russianisation began. Then, in 1918, he was placed under Romanian jurisdiction, and as a result of the 1939 Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, he was placed under Soviet jurisdiction. From 1990 they were able to hold elections in Moldova, then after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, a state independent from 27 August 1991. Moldova, as we can see, is already on the basis of the 1994 Partnership Agreement, strongly seeking to become a member of the European Union. The Communists had a hard time getting out of power, and they were trying to stop it. But I myself consider that, not only for the sake of this convention, but also for the purpose of deepening our relationship with Moldova, it is necessary to do everything in Hungarian policy to help them with a country so beautifully developing and promoting European integration. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from Jobbik and DK.]]
u2018-06-12-64	Thank you, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. [[11.20]]
u2018-06-12-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
u2018-06-12-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the keynote speech. For a two-minute speech, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied, Jobbik.
u2018-06-12-67	Mr President, Dear House, Today, international agreements are raining on us in a tsunami. It is true that it is several years late, but in a package, the government is trying to settle them. On the subject of the previous agreement, Mr Secretary of State carefully resolved my question on air transport with the fact that he did not wish to answer that question. I would like to take the patience of this House for a few seconds now, in that, if the Secretary of State is here, then, in relation to Malév and its afterlife, it should be manifested, if this government is, by the way, trying to strengthen and widen in many industries, and I am in favour of this process, that it has any similar intention in this area of domestic participation, let us say, ten years of perspective. I ask you for a meaningful answer, and I think there is no reason not to say, for at least a few reasons, that they have plans to revive a Hungarian strategic industry, they have ideas, they have visions at all. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-68	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. No one has applied for further speeches. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. [[Dr. László Mosóczi:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, They will have the opportunity to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol amending the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasimita Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, in order to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The government referral is T/411. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-12-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of this proposal is to publish a Protocol amending the Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasimita Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States and the Hasimita Kingdom of Jordan was signed in Brussels on 15 December 2010. The Agreement ensures the gradual opening of the air transport market between the European Union and the Hasimita Kingdom of Jordan. The agreement in Hungary is set out in Annex XII to the 2011 Agreement. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. Croatia has acceded to the Air Transport Agreement with the Protocol signed on 3 May 2016. The Protocol contains a provision on the authenticity of the Croatian text of the Agreement and provisions on the approval and entry into force of the Protocol. Given that the Protocol forms an integral part of the Agreement, the Protocol should therefore be published in law. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speech will now be held by the lead speaker. I give the floor first to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-12-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, The Euro-Mediterranean Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and the Hasimita Kingdom of Jordan aims to promote the establishment of an international air transport system based on fair competition between air carriers, the expansion of international air transport opportunities to meet the needs of passengers and carriers for adequate air transport services. Furthermore, the intention is to ensure the highest level of security and protection in international air transport and to promote Euro-Mediterranean airspace based on the principles of convergence of the regulatory environment, regulatory cooperation and market access liberalisation. Croatia shall also be party to this Agreement after its amendment. It is also important for Hungary to develop cooperation with Jordan. This is supported by the fact that we have concluded several bilateral agreements with Jordan, such as the visa waiver for citizens with diplomatic passports. Furthermore, the bilateral agreement on the peaceful use of nuclear energy is noteworthy. Jordan also has an important role to play in providing asylum and fighting terrorism. Christians give 2 percent of the country's population and can live in peace because they are not subjected to persecution here. In order to improve the situation of refugees in Jordan, an agreement was reached between the European Union and Jordan in 2016, under which certain products produced by the use of refugees in Jordan could benefit from preferential access to Union markets. In view of all this, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-12-72	Thank you, Congressman Mihály Balla. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2018-06-12-73	Mr President, Dear House, It is basically a technical proposal that lies before us, and obviously, when we talk about air transport, air transport, the government is able to do a feat to get from here with a hussar cut to migration or even the situation of people called refugees living there. We could argue a great deal about this, by the way, and this is a substantive question. I am very sorry that the same openness does not exist in the representatives of the government to talk about the relationship between the specific interests of Hungary and the areas concerned. This is the third agenda in a row, where I am trying to ask this question, how the two-thirds government of Hungary is trying to enforce the Hungarian national interest. It is possible that there is only one technical agenda ahead of us now, but I am alarmed by the unpreparedness of the government or the extent to which it is possible that it will not be able to participate in a strategic debate on the future for a single thought. I also hope that the Fidesz-KDNP will break off with the two-bullying policy on migration, and indeed, let us say, in relation to this area, it is not interested in increasing the number of those who have been protected here, because there have been mechanisms under which it was very easy for those who wanted to get into Hungary from the direction of Serbia, and although they have indeed tightened up the conditions, it has been due to a quota-like solution that the increase in the number of those protected has started. I am very confident that this process will reverse in parallel with what is happening at our borders. Fortunately, this is not the time to experience the insane pressure, which, in my view, will certainly happen in the future. By the way, I support not only the government, but all the organizations in the universe, who are working to solve these problems in crisis areas. If such meaningful ideas arise, we will certainly support it. In itself, it is to allow Jordanian products to enter the EU market at a discount, Aspirin to the dying, so I must say that if this is the solution of the Union, then we are in very, very much trouble. I am also very pleased that, in addition to the fact that Hungary has created a physical border lock, it still retains the opportunity that this government has not used twice in a row. He did not take advantage of the possibility that our status as a transit country would not become a country of destination in the coming decades, although I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that, in order to do so, the emigration crisis has to do something with us, because in this Parliament's decision of 100% would require even a minimum improvement of the problem. [[11.30]] And when the Secretary of State Tállai stands up and tells you of the onion fever dream that more of the young Hungarians are returning from abroad than are emigrating, we have to call you back from the other side of the Stargate or from the parallel dimension to which they have gone, because normal people can't seriously think that six hundred thousand forced emigration and we're using careful numbers in two years would have turned. I wish that were the case, and I will support you in all things if you put forward legislative proposals to move the system in this direction, but unfortunately, we have not even reached the level of common debate, because the big vest arrogance with which the State Secretarys are one by one, honor the exception, but they declare that there is no emigration crisis in the context of the population crisis, which is our 30-year disaster, they declare that the turn has taken place, the joke of jokes, please, while we are fading faster than a year ago. They are able to say, in relation to the otherwise fortunate and highly supported increase in fertility rates, that the turn of events has taken place. But that's a net lie! For while the number of women of childbearing age, the base is constantly shrinking, in particular, there may be an increase in fertility rates in terms of the number of live births, but this does not bring about a blessed state that would be sufficient to stay at zero levels. It is therefore necessary to introduce a culture of debate where we can adopt national minimums on these fundamental issues on a substantial and constructive basis. That's what I miss about Parliament's work. I must say that I am open to these national minimums, but my fellow members, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, this will be possible if this communication is two-way, so if your State Secretarys stand up and respond to substantive questions. Not only because they receive their salary for this, but also because it is quite simply unworthy of their own mandate to give concrete answers to substantive opposition issues, not to bullying, not to mood, but to specific questions, to the successor of Malév, to the Hungarian strategic interest in this sector. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-74	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I now give the floor once again to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-06-12-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill.
u2018-06-12-76	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one has applied for a two-minute speech and a further speech. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] It says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the draft legislation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, on an amendment to the Common Aviation Area Agreement to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, pending its closure. Government referral T/412. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda.
u2018-06-12-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the present proposal is to publish the Protocol amending the Agreement establishing the Common Aviation Area between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Georgia was signed on 20 December 2010. The Agreement establishes a common airspace with the aim of ensuring that the parties have access to the market and a level playing field. The agreement in Hungary is set out in Annex IV to the 2011 Agreement. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. Croatia, which entered the European Union in 2013, undertook to accede to agreements concluded by the Member States and the European Union with third countries. Such accessions shall take place under a simplified procedure and shall be subject to a protocol. The Agreement on Air Transport between the European Union and its Member States and Georgia was signed by Croatia with the Protocol signed on 26 November 2014, which contains a provision on the authenticity of the Croatian text of the Agreement and provisions on the approval and entry into force of the Protocol. Given that the Protocol forms an integral part of the Agreement, the Protocol should therefore be published in law. In view of the above, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-12-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In this case, too, Croatia's accession made it necessary for the European Union to amend the Common Aviation Area Agreement concluded by the European Union with Georgia, rather than Georgia, by signing the Protocol. The agreement signed between the European Union and Georgia on the establishment of the Common Aviation Area also aims to establish a common airspace that allows the parties to have reciprocal market access while ensuring a level playing field. In addition, environmental protection and consumer protection are also highlighted. Hungary supported the Association and Visa Waiver Agreement signed with Georgia. The EU can only increase its competitiveness if it can obtain as many external allies as possible, strategic partners. Georgia is trying to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Eastern Partnership, so the signing of the Association Agreement and the Free Trade Agreement which forms part of it was an important milestone. Georgia wants to promote cooperation with the European Union in particular in the areas of cyber security, energy security, border protection, combating terrorism and strategic communication. Georgia's ultimate objective is to achieve full membership of the EU and NATO. Hungary consistently supports Georgia's European and Euroatlantic integration efforts. There are regular top-level meetings and business forums between the two countries. In addition to good political relations, the aim now is to increase economic and trade cooperation. This is also done by the fact that Eximbank opened a EUR 85 million credit line to encourage cooperation between Hungarian and Georgian companies. There are direct flights between the two countries, on the Budapest-Kutaiszi route, which also facilitates the development of connections and tourism. By signing or publishing the Protocol amending the Agreement, Croatia shall also be party to the Common Aviation Area Agreement. I would ask this House, my fellow Members, to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Mihály Balla. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-12-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna stick with Georgia, I like it, and I'm gonna share [[Mihály Balla intervenes.]] The position of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on this issue. [[Mihály Balla: This is not a matter of opinion!]] This Convention is also a technical additional protocol, which, in fact, together with the other proposals, complements the previous protocols only because of the EU membership of the Republic of Croatia. On 2 December 2010, the EU signed an agreement on airspace use with Georgia and signed this protocol in the European Union on 26 November 2014. [[11.40]] On 29 March 2018, the competent minister submitted to the House for ratification this Protocol, which is three and a half years later than the signature. In this respect, too, I would like to ask the representatives of the government with respect to endeavour to help us in our international relations, in particular by promoting our tasks of this kind much earlier. Of course, the Jobbik Group supports the ratification of the protocol. But as in my previous speeches, and because many of our countrymen are watching our mediations, I think it is important that, if we are talking about an international relationship and a country that is nice to Hungary, let us say a few words about their culture and history. Georgia's most important product, with which everyone identifies this country, is wine and, in fact, the largest commercial result on the international stage. Already from the VI. before Christ IV. Until the first century, a so-called Caucasian Iberian Kingdom was operating in its territory, the Greek-Persian wars broke up, and then it flourished under Alexander the Great, and then it fell apart. This area was a constant struggle between the Persians and the Roman Empire, and later between the Byzantine and Ottoman Empires. Annex XIII is replaced by the text set out in Annex XIII to this Regulation. From the first century onwards, a series of Turkish, Russian, and Persian wars took place in its territory, and the 19th century. And from the end of the century, it was acquired by the Russian Empire. It has been independent since 9 April 1991, but, in fact, because of the constant foreign country demand in the areas of Ossetia and Abkázia, there has never been any peace and a continuous fire nest in these two areas of that country. I hope that these problems of Georgia will also be eliminated as a result of possible future accession to the European Union in such international partnerships. Thank you for the attention of my fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2018-06-12-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. The President, who will chair the meeting, is obliged to make a statement that we respect the Academy's position on the name of the country, but we respect the request of the country's leaders to label it as Georgia, and I, too, apologize for the fact that I may not have used both names in the introduction. I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-06-12-83	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-84	Thank you, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I'll give the floor to Congressman Michael Balla for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2018-06-12-85	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, and I apologise for asking and stalling, but I would just like to respond briefly to the remarks made by Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea. It's nice that we prefer the name Georgia, or, as you said, you prefer it, but today I want to use the name Georgia, however it is in Google or Wikipedia. On the other hand, it is a fact and a fact that Ossetia and Abkázia are not a conflict area, but are currently under occupation, so I think that if we try to lecture each other at some level, then perhaps we should be more aware of the facts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]]
u2018-06-12-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Balla. Dear Parliament, I can't see a name for another two-minute comment on the screen. They also did not apply for speeches by their representatives. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We are having a brief technical break, waiting for the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office to be present in the next debate. Thank you. (Sunning: 11.44 11.54) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Attila Gelencsér)
u2018-06-12-87	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State has arrived, we will continue our work. A general discussion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, of the other part, and of the draft law on the publication of its protocols attached thereto, until its conclusion. The government referral is T/396. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Szabolcs Takács, Minister of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-12-88	Mr President, Dear House, [[His mic won't say.]]
u2018-06-12-89	The clip should be picked up on the lapel and the card replaced. [[It's happening.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-12-90	Excuse me, thank you. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to declare the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, of the other part, and the Protocols attached thereto. The purpose of the association established under the Agreement is to establish a suitable framework for political dialogue; to support Macedonia's efforts in the development of economic and international cooperation, in particular by bringing its legislation closer to EU legislation; to promote harmonious economic relations and to gradually build a free trade area and to support regional cooperation in the country. Until the accession of Macedonia to the EU, the agreement we are about to announce is the basis for relations with the European Union, so it is an important and serious document. The main priority of Macedonian foreign policy is the country's European and Euroatlantic integration. Macedonia was granted candidate status in 2005, but unfortunately accession negotiations have not yet started. It is a legitimate issue for the Macedonian Government to be able to demonstrate early success in the area of integration. To this end, they have concluded a treaty with Bulgaria, accepting all Bulgarian conditions; they have proposed a new language law, increasing the rights of the Albanian minority; and taking on an internal political risk, they are conducting advanced negotiations with Greece on a constitutional change in the name of the country. So this is a serious and serious issue, and I think I do not need to stress this specifically. As regards the chances of Macedonia's accession to the EU, Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker held a speech on the situation of the European Union on 13 September 2017 in favour of a credible membership perspective for the Western Balkan countries, which is a major change compared to what the President of the Commission said at the beginning of the Commission's institutional cycle in 2014. However, during the term of office of the European Commission and the European Parliament until 2019, it is unlikely that a new accession will take place, since none of the Balkan countries are yet ready for it. On 6 February 2018, the European Commission's strategy for the Western Balkans was published, placing enlargement in a broader context, a vision of a stronger European Union in 2025. On the one hand, it sends a positive message: the Western Balkans are part of Europe; the integration of the region into the EU is in the EU's political, security and economic interest. It endeavours to provide a concrete perspective, promising the Western Balkan countries to submit proposals for different EU policies in the coming period and thus offering concrete cooperation to the countries of the region. On the other hand, it deals comprehensively with the necessary steps to prepare internally for the next enlargement round, both institutionally and financially. The accession process remains performance- and conditionality-based for all countries. On 17 April 2018, the European Commission published its enlargement package, in which it made a specific point in relation to Macedonia, proposing to the Council the opening of accession negotiations. The special event of the Bulgarian EU Presidency was the EU-Western Balkans Summit in Sofia on 17 May 2018. In the agreed declaration, the Member States unanimously support the European perspective of the region; special attention is paid to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. Specific paragraphs deal with security policy cooperation between the EU and the Western Balkan countries in the area of combating illegal migration and combating terrorism and radicalisation. The European Union recognises the commitment of the Western Balkan countries so far to the common foreign and security policy and expects ever-increasing cooperation in this area. [[12.00]] As regards bilateral relations with our country: in 1994 we took up diplomatic relations with Macedonia, we opened our Embassy in Skopje in 1999, and Hungary continues to support Macedonia's European integration efforts, and our assistance is ongoing at political and expert levels. Hungary also consistently supports Macedonia's NATO accession effort, which is an important and relevant issue for the stability and security of the whole region. In the context of the NATO integration perspective, we are still ready to provide practical support for the country's preparation. One of the basic conditions of our bilateral relations is that the Macedonian border remains closed to illegal migration, since Macedonia plays a key role on the Western Balkans migration route, with 43 360 persons in 2014 according to the EU Border Protection Agency, 764 038 in 2015 and 122 779 irregular migrants in 2016. According to the latest data, 10,983 persons passed through the same route between January and November 17. As of March 2016, in line with the steps taken by Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia and Austria, Macedonia only allows migrants with valid passports and visas to enter the territory, which virtually closed its borders. At present, the migration situation in Macedonia is stable and the figures have fallen further compared to the previous period, while unorganised illegal entry and smuggling are ongoing. Hungary has been actively cooperating with the countries affected by the Western Balkans migration route from the outset. Our country also provides technical assistance to maintain the Macedonian border closure by providing tools. Since January 16 Hungary's police contingent has been assisting the Macedonian border guard who has been sending out the numbers on the southern border area since the border control. The Hungarian police are also serving patrols to prevent and detect illegal border crossings, and they are involved in the production of smugglers and illegal immigrants entering the territory of Macedonia. The quota shall support the protection of the border section concerned by means of SUVs, night vision devices and hand-held thermal cameras. On request from Macedonia, the Hungarian government will ensure the presence of the Hungarian police until October 2018 on a monthly basis. The European Commission is also helping Macedonia to combat illegal migration. In February 2016, a grant of EUR 10 million was approved to assist border surveillance and to cover the supply of police officers from EU Member States and Serbia. The agreement that we are about to announce now hopes to further develop relations between Macedonia and the European Union and the future accession of the country to the EU, which is a consistent and committed supporter of our country in order to stabilise the Balkans as a whole. Dear House, In view of the above, I ask that you support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-91	Thank you, Szabolcs Takács, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-12-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the signing and publication of the agreement with Macedonia and, to the same extent, we support Macedonia's European integration efforts, and we are ready to assist in the implementation of the steps. I think that the various factions have so far agreed and have reached consensus. The purpose of this Treaty is to establish a framework for promoting political dialogue between the European Union and Macedonia, enabling the development of relations, support for its efforts to develop economic and international cooperation in Macedonia, promote harmonious economic relations and progressively build a free trade area. Until the accession of Macedonia to the EU, this Agreement forms the basis for Macedonia's relations with the European Union. In addition to economic relations, the Western Balkans region has a significant impact on the European Union's security policy, the role of the region in addressing and addressing the challenge of migration processes is crucial. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The European Union must recognise that the security of Central and Eastern Europe can be guaranteed by the Western Balkans by accelerating the process of accession of the region to the European Union and NATO. The relationship of the Western Balkans with the European Union is clearly a key issue in the effective fight against illegal migration. The establishment of an effective cooperation mechanism is also of paramount importance for Hungary. A possible crisis situation can be mitigated and, where appropriate, prevented if the Western Balkan States are able to respond to the crisis in a uniform manner, helping each other to respond. If the Western Balkans are not able to properly prepare and with its protection measures stop the waves of illegal migration on the Balkan routes, the pressure on the southern border will also have a direct impact on the security situation of our country. On the basis of the above arguments, Hungary has a clear interest in facilitating the rapid European integration of the Western Balkans, including Macedonia. That is why, on behalf of the Group, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We will continue our work, and we will listen to the lead speaker of Jobbik. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-94	Mr President, Dear House, It is not polite to say this, but I think that we are starting to negotiate the most important convention of the day so far, which is why I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the fact that, after the short intermezzo, we have been able to start this particularly important debate, especially as regards the fact that anyone helping Macedonia or helping the region is actually helping Hungary to protect its borders by applying the migration approach. We have to say that the Union has practically failed this region, so it has not provided substantial financial assistance; it has, yes, been instrumental, but according to local complaints, on the one hand, they have been negligible compared to what is necessary, and on the other hand, their quality has, to say the least, left something to be desired. On the other hand, in addition to the said hesitation and paralysis of the Visegrád countries and the European Union, police officers have been sent to help the Macedonian border protection, and we know that the situation there is much sharper now than it is at the borders of Hungary. The excellent summary of alphahir.hu shows that information cooperation has also been established with the Balkan country to prevent security risks, but it is quite certain that this framework, the instrument system, should be considered. If Hungary wants to open real fronts with the European Union, then this would be, say, a legitimate point; it would be a legitimate point for this region to demand and fight out all the tools needed for defence, essentially all of them. That is why I can support and will support the proposal before us, even if my sense of absence is strong; it is strong in that when it comes to an agreement with a state, an area, a region, I think it is a minimum expectation at college or university level to provide an attached file or a package for the presentation, which discusses our balance sheet against the region, whether in terms of commercial relations or other coordinates. They come in here on a assembly line, where appropriate, with a multi-annual delay, as my colleague mentioned, as well as agreements, agreements, documents for ratification, etc., but none of the Members will receive the necessary background studies and materials, in substance, under the rights of the subject. So the key to our successful work is how much we look into all this, but let's be honest, and put your hands on the heart of everyone in this room, now the House is running at about eightth floor, but I am not convinced that the majority of Members even know what they are voting on, or would read these conventions, or, where appropriate, translate the protocols attached to it. So just as we have not been able to reach a rule of n-1 or n+1 in the last eight years in the budget, likewise we cannot reach this area to the management of the balance sheets underlying the normal decision or, where appropriate, to normal background studies. But along the course of migration, I specifically call upon both the Government of Hungary and the European Union to fight out the necessary instruments for this region, but our primary task would be to protect Hungary. [[12.10]] I'm saying there would be, because the government's activity leaves something to be desired, to say the least. I am not only referring to the number of beneficiaries of protection received in excess of the quota expected by Brussels, for whom no one has required in law that, let's say, in Budapest, they should be informed of the possibilities of receiving the CSOK, because this has been done by our MEP Gergely Tokodi Marcell, who requested and obtained documentation in this regard, this is accessible by a simple Google search, but I also think that without an independent border guard, police and defence forces are performing their services. I would like to remind my fellow pro-government Members who accused Jobbik of some kind of self-destruction along the migration theme of being in a huge mistake, because, for example, the two-thirds of them were provided by Jobbik, who were still Members, to guide the defence to the border. I'm sure you'll remember that. So here, with two faces and a two-bully policy, the government is accused of declaring zero tolerance to migration on its billboards, let us say, with the establishment bond scheme, the assassination of Hungary by providing essentially uncontrolled, in the order of tens of thousands, the hallway of citizenship to a foreign person of well over twenty thousand. I am interested in the opinion of the Secretary of State, not at the end of the debate, but at the same time, in order to be able to respond to the question of how effective this screening could have been for residents. After all, in my view, running it on international or Western European wanted lists cannot be considered a due diligence. I'm interested in your personal view of the extent to which this system was sufficient. If they have already declared zero tolerance and supported, let's say, Macedonia quite rightly, in a way supported by me in strengthening these processes, then why do they act at home against the same processes. I'm looking forward to your meaningful reply, if you'll do me the honor of doing so. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-96	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I am pleased that Mr Juncker started with the idea of Commission President Juncker, because he left a kind of uncertainty in the region that there is no way to know who will join in what form and when; so I was pleased when the current Commissioner, Johannes Hahn, who is responsible for enlargement, spoke in February 2018 about proposing to the EU Member States the early start of accession negotiations not only with Macedonia but also with Albania and the former Yugoslav Republic. The main priority of Macedonian foreign policy is the Euroatlantic integration of the country. The EU candidate status was granted in 2005, but accession negotiations have not yet started. This long-standing name dispute with Greece has been a serious obstacle, but the country is also willing to change its name in order to facilitate accession. Bulgaria has also hindered the opening of accession negotiations since 2012, in view of the lack of good neighbourly relations. However, it was a breakthrough in the relationship between the two countries, and it is very important for us that the Bulgarian-Macedonian good neighbourly treaty was signed on 1 August 2017. A high-level accession dialogue was launched in 2012 at the initiative of the European Commission. Hungary's national interest has also been mentioned by the State Secretary, the stabilisation of the region and the rapid integration of Macedonia into the Euroatlantic. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports Macedonia's European Union and NATO integration efforts, and accordingly the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-97	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches, but since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, I am giving the opportunity to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpá in the framework of a regular speech. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-98	Mr President, Dear House, I promise not to take all the 15 minutes that I have now had, because my push of the button asking for a normal speech was that I assumed that Mr Secretary of State would have the courage to stand up and then sit back, even during the debate, so not at the end, and I can respond to what you have said. I wanted to do this now with a normal speech. You have torpedoed my intentions to the extent that you have not shown such courage, I assume, and then you wish to speak at the end of the debate. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the settlement bond structure has caused the Hungarian budget some HUF 17.5 billion damage. These are calculated roughly now in these weeks. Meanwhile, what's really harsh is the level of brokerage fees. Typically, it was a close-to-government, supposedly close-to-government network that obtained a brokerage fee of more than HUF 150 billion. That he did this through offshore companies or through foreign networks was basically a technical issue for him, but if I quote a sentence from the press reports that 81 percent of the clients involved were made by an intermediary registered in the Cayman Islands, then I think I've told him all about your settlement bond construction. The question therefore arises: in addition to temporarily suspending this construction, do the Secretary of State or even the Government undertake to permanently eliminate this construction which has caused damage to the Hungarian budget, giving the lobby of citizenship to the Hungarian state, but creating a security risk, and do you see any sense in doing so? I think that Hungary has suffered a clear national security breach, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the protection of the external borders of Europe in the wider sense is meaningful, in addition to supporting the convention before us, if they do not do parallel damage to the external borders of Europe, which is enormous and similar to what has been mentioned. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-99	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, [[For signal:]] I would have asked, but I'm not asking now, because since then, on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, Secretary of State Takács has applied. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-100	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congressman! Congressman Lords! Thank you very much for your comment. My bravery factor does not change that I am reacting immediately or at the end, so I would like to record it, waiting for the voice of the Member on the grounds of courtesy, but of course I understood the suggestion. Although I was a little surprised that the European Union and Macedonia's Association Agreement allowed the Member to make his way through a hussar cut to the settlement policy. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] At the same time, I have to say that things are being washed up a little bit, because illegal waiting is not the same as the institution of settlement bonds. This is not a Hungarian-specific institution, the settlement policy, a number of countries in Europe employ this institution, and it is precisely an institution that gives the opportunity, by the way, to complete national security screening and any other screening of those who wish to live with it. For various reasons, these people, who enter many of Europe's countries through this institution, fall within the competence of each Member State, do not jeopardise national security in that Member State, and in general the cultural values, traditions and identity of the European Union. As regards the issue of the Macedonian-EU agreement, I do not want to repeat the aspects already expressed in the expozee. Obviously, there is also an important role to play here in stopping illegal migration. Hungary was the Member State that represented its interests in a very difficult political environment along the same logic from the onset of the migration crisis in the autumn 15th. In 2015, just let me recall, we were attacked in many directions from home and abroad, because we built the same fence that protected not only Hungary, but the entire European Union. So we continue to think that that policy was good, and along the lines of this logic, in this context, we also support the EU-Macedon agreement. I hope that we will not take advantage of such important events, such important cases, so that we can wash them together with other, completely inappropriate questions and weaken their seriousness. Please accept my answer. [[12.20]]
u2018-06-12-101	Thank you very much. I see Mr Z. Kárpa's application, and I will give you the floor, but I am obliged to draw attention to the fact that there is now a debate on an international agreement. I do not want to read your entire title because it would be longer than the speech itself, but according to the house rules, it is my duty to draw attention to the debate on what is, by the way, to be debated in the context of the agenda. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-102	Mr President, Dear House, Understood. I believe that the issue is that if we successfully defend the external borders of a Europe in a broad sense, then Hungarian border protection will have less burden. Here we have seen the connection, together with Mr Secretary of State, who, first of all, I thank you for your courage to have a meaningful debate. That's how Parliament's discussion makes sense. Unfortunately, it's very rare, so I give you all the credit. In addition, I would like to reassure you that this is not the kind of genre where I should accept your answer, so my level of satisfaction is specific in this matter. Thank you for your meaningful answer. At the same time, I would like to warn you that we in Europe have not found anything similar to the establishment bond scheme, so there is no such advantage for the host country. If you were to send me data on national security screening, you would send it to my private parliamentary e-mail address, it would help a lot with my construction, because I do not really see what methods and expenses of over 20,000 people have been examined by organisations. I've got all the public information on this, but obviously I don't see it as deeply as you do, who have the unpublic information mass. If the intermediary companies were able to put more than HUF 150 billion in their pockets along the settlement bond structure, and the Hungarian budget was worth $17.5 billion, then, Mr. State Secretary, I have only one question, and you can answer that in the closing word: why is this worth it to Hungary? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-103	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect now. It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Arab Republic of Egypt, of the other part, and the draft law on the publication of its protocols thereto, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/397. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Szabolcs Takács Ferenc State Secretary, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-104	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, This proposal is aimed at publishing the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Arab Republic of Egypt, of the other part, and the Protocols attached thereto. The aim of the agreement is to establish an appropriate framework for political dialogue; to create the necessary conditions for the gradual liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital; to promote the development of balanced economic and social relations between the parties; and to promote regional cooperation to ensure peaceful coexistence and economic and social stability. The new partnership priorities identified in the context of the revised European Neighbourhood Policy for the period 2017-2020, on which the political agreement was reached at the end of December 2016, are a major step in strengthening relations between the European Union and Egypt. The proposed priorities are sustainable, modern economic and social development of Egypt, strengthening foreign policy partnership and stability. Cooperation is based on deepening mutual accountability and responsibility and dialogue on democracy and human rights. There is basically a consensus among EU Member States that the EU must act in a balanced manner in view of its special relations with Egypt and its wide-ranging interests and preserve its role and scope for political change. Hungary emphasises a reasonable and flexible approach and the importance of taking due account of Egyptian needs. Regarding bilateral relations: Hungary established diplomatic relations with Egypt in 1928, first of all among the Arab countries. Our embassy in Cairo was opened in 1939, and Egypt has been running an embassy in Budapest since 1957. The Hungarian-Egyptian relations have recently shown an evolving trend, and the Egyptian image of Hungary has traditionally been positive. The negative effects of the migration crisis in 2015-16 have not substantially altered this. Several meetings between Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Egyptian President Abdul Fatal Khalil Al-Sisi, followed by the visit of the President of Parliament, as well as ministerial and other high-level meetings indicate that a balanced, dynamic and comprehensive cooperation has been established between our countries. Egypt appreciates our intervention in order to develop EU-Egyptian and V4 Egypt relations. With regard to the latter, it is a particularly great success, I think, in terms of foreign policy, that the first V4-Egypt summit was held in Budapest on 4 July 2017 during the Hungarian Presidency of the V4 which the parties agreed to establish a V4-Egypt cooperation, the fight against tourism, illegal migration, the development of the V4-Egyptian energy cooperation, the development of a common V4 Egypt investment fund and the promotion of mutual investment, and the need to strengthen relations between the European Union and Egypt in general. Following the V4-Egypt Summit, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán drew the attention of the President of the Council of Europe, Donald Tusk, to Egypt's outstanding regional role and the importance of relations between the European Union and Egypt by letter dated 12 July 2017. At the meeting of the EU-Egypt Association Council, where the partnership priorities were adopted, Hungary has made considerable efforts to balance the text, in particular in agreement with Greece and Cyprus. The agreement that we are about to announce will help to further develop relations between Egypt and the European Union, despite the difficulties, as Egypt's political, economic and social stability is not only in the interests of a regional interest but also in the interests of Europe as a whole. In view of the above, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-12-105	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, Congressman Mihály Balla, lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, With Egypt, our country has a long-standing relationship that still exists. The stabilising effect and moderate role of 97 million people in Egypt covers not only the countries of North Africa, but also Europe as a whole. From our point of view, from the point of view of the European Union, this Treaty is a completed neighbourhood policy which seeks to stabilise Europe's environment. Through this agreement, we can affect Egyptian society, more than 10 percent of which are Coptic Christians, in addition to Egyptian trade. In the light of this agreement, it is particularly important that, since the sanctions imposed against Russia, Egypt has become increasingly involved with Russia, with growing ties to Russia. It is in our interest that Egypt's external relations and external economic relations remain balanced and that the European Union and its Member States, including Hungary, participate in this with an increasing rate. An important objective of this Association Euro-Mediterranean agreement could also be to further strengthen Egypt's stability in the region and its moderate role in the region. That's why our faction supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-12-107	Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, lead speaker of Jobbik.
u2018-06-12-108	Mr President, Dear House, There can be no doubt that we are in favour of the proposal before us, since the Euro-Mediterranean region is largely dependent on Europe and, by the way, the future of Central and Eastern Europe is also at a smaller level. [[12.30]] What we need to see is that the stabilizing power of the region is the best I can see through the strengthening of economic relations and the settlement of economic relations there. Perhaps the best political stabilising instrument is the expansion of economic relations. For this reason, we must support and support all provisions, support, directives and proposals in this direction, and we also support my hope that this will end up with a common European strategy where the European Union will not act as a kind of lame duck as it has been in recent years, and the European Union will not lose any more of its global political weight than the last one, or perhaps more, could have been realised in two decades, but will be able to act on merit, possibly supporting the stabilisation of other regions. I have my doubts in this regard, and we have some doubt that the current Union, sometimes showing signs of incredible impotence, is able to contribute at all to the implementation of such a process. But let's just hope it's not up to us. Therefore, our support for the proposal before us is clear. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-109	Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, head speaker of the MSZP!
u2018-06-12-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Priorities for relations between the European Union and Egypt: sustainable economic and social development of Egypt, a partnership on foreign policy and a consolidation of stability. Cooperation is based on mutual accountability and responsibility, deepening democracy and dialogue on human rights, and working with civil society. The Member States of the European Union agree that, in view of its special relations with Egypt and its wide-ranging interests, the European Union must act in a balanced manner and preserve its role and scope for political transformation, as Egypt's political, economic and social stability is not only a regional interest but also a European interest, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State. The purpose of the agreement contained in this bill is to establish an appropriate framework for political dialogue with a view to developing close political relations between the parties, creating the necessary conditions for the progressive liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital, by dialogue and cooperation, to promote the development of balanced economic and social relations between the parties, to promote regional cooperation in order to foster peaceful coexistence and economic and social stability, and to promote cooperation in other areas of mutual interest. Since the Hungarian Socialist Party fully agrees with these objectives, it supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-12-111	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Two-minute speeches may follow. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] They're not coming. Any further speeches by Members? (No applicants.) Since no one wishes to make use of their right to speak, the general debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, would you like to speak? [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the publication of a protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until its conclusion. The government referral is T/398. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Takács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, As Mr President has indicated, the purpose of this bill is to publish a protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, on the other hand, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. On the basis of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, it has undertaken to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the European Union and its Member States by means of a Protocol annexed to these agreements. The Protocol should be applied on a provisional basis, with a view to Croatia's accession to the European Union, as from 1 June 2013, pending the completion of the procedures for its conclusion. Relations between the European Union and the Republic of Uzbekistan have been continuously evolving since the country's independence in 1991, and the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, has been signed on 21 June 1996 and entered into force on 1 July. The agreement opened the way for bilateral relations in the areas of political dialogue, bilateral trade in goods, the development of business investment and provides a framework for promoting economic and judicial cooperation. The agreement also sets out a framework for cooperation in the field of democracy building and human rights and provides an opportunity to combat illegal migration and covers cultural and financial cooperation and technical assistance. For the five countries in the Central Asia region, for the period 2014-2020, the European Union has approved EUR 1 billion for regional and country-specific programmes covering the sustainability of natural resources, social and economic development, energy and water, transport, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, border control and the fight against drugs, education, science and the environment. Hungary and Uzbekistan established a diplomatic relationship on 3 March 1992 and our country is open to developing relations in all areas with regard to bilateral cooperation. The official opening of the embassy took place on 27 June 2017, during the visit of Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Agriculture, the food industry, the pharmaceutical industry and water management are the most promising areas of cooperation. On 21 December 2017, the Intergovernmental Convention on Education, Scientific and Cultural Cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan was signed in Tashkent. In the framework of this, the Hungarian state offered a scholarship framework of 30 persons to the Uzbek partner, an annual average of around 10 students from Uzbek are studying at Hungarian universities. Corvinus University set up a Central Asia Research Centre in November 2016 aimed at deepening Central Asian studies, organising events and conferences on the subject. The central ideas include the involvement of V4 and Central Asia's academic circles in joint reflection on the promotion of cooperation between the two regions. I ask you to support the bill, taking into account the above. Thank you.
u2018-06-12-113	Thank you very much. The keynote speeches will be held. Congressman Mihály Balla, lead speaker of Fidesz!
u2018-06-12-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Uzbekistan also has a rapidly developing economy in Asia and can become an important trading partner for a country the size of Hungary. The signs of this are already reflected in our exports of beef and agricultural technology related to livestock production, the emergence of our water-cleaning machines, due to the country's capabilities, and the growing investment of Richter Pharmaceuticals. The opportunities for trade expansion are also provided by our embassy opened in Tashkent almost a year ago. Not in general, but because of the links listed above, it is of particular importance for us that a dynamically developing Central Asian country strengthens its relations with the European Union and its Member States. And the growing trade relations will certainly serve to deepen good relations between two culturally accountable peoples. Therefore, the Fidesz faction supports the bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-12-115	Varga-Damm Andrea, lead speaker for Jobbik. Here you go. [[12.40]]
u2018-06-12-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We are now discussing the ratification of the accession protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Of course, the Jobbik faction will support this initiative in the vote. On 21 June 1996, the EU and the Republic of Uzbekistan signed the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership in Florence and signed on 17 July 2017 the Protocol which is now being ratified. On 13 February 2018, the competent minister submitted the initiative to Parliament. Uzbekistan and the EU Cooperation Council have already held its 13th meeting in the last year, and it is clear that the EU's relationship with Uzbekistan has been an incredible development in recent years. Integration and Uzbekistan's relationship with political, judicial and economic reforms, as well as the rule of law and trade relations, have been a major step forward. The EU is a cohesion force in the lives of Central Asian countries in order to build relations with the Western world. But in order to say a little bit about the history and situation of Uzbekistan, even so that we can expand the knowledge of the citizens who view and choose us, Iranian peoples lived in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan, and from the X. century onwards the Turkish-speaking peoples were inhabited and then occupied by the Mongols. From 1370 he was ruled by the Timurids, and from 1598 he became a Khanate, and from 1868 he became under Russian control. When the Soviet Union broke up, it was an independent state from 1991. What we perceive and see is that Uzbekistan is doing everything in its power to have a strong relationship with the Western world and to have a recognised country in both its trade and its political relations. For this reason, we consider that it is also in the interest of the Republic of Hungary to develop the relationship between the EU and Uzbekistan to complete all such agreements and complement them. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-117	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP!
u2018-06-12-118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In favour of the Members who spoke earlier, I believe that this is an extremely important agreement. Since the independence of the relations between the European Union and the Republic of Uzbekistan in 1991, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, was signed on 21 June 1999 and entered into force on 1 July 1999. This opened the way for bilateral relations in the areas of political dialogue, bilateral trade in goods, business investment and provides a framework for promoting economic and judicial cooperation. The agreement also sets out a framework for cooperation in the field of democracy building and human rights, as well as the areas of cultural and financial cooperation and technical assistance. The Hungarian Socialist Party agrees with the above objectives, which is why it supports the adoption of a legislative proposal for a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, on the other hand, to publish a protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-119	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There were no two-minute speeches, and further speeches could be made. [[There's no candidate.]] But no one's signed up for this. As no one has applied for this, the general debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State does not wish to comment, with thanks. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until its closure. The government referral is T/399. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr. Ferenc Takács, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-120	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill is indeed to publish a protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Community and the Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The Agreement aims, in particular, to promote trade in trade and investment, including transport services, and to establish a framework for comprehensive economic, financial and technical cooperation. The agreement envisaged a partnership between the parties, a framework for political dialogue and an important step forward in the area of trade and sectoral cooperation, setting out the principle of maximum benefit and the possibility of a free trade level assessment. The announcements also include promoting the restructuring of the Russian economy, environmental protection and harmonious social development. The Republic of Croatia became a member of the European Union on 1 July. It shall accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the European Union and its Member States by means of a protocol under its instrument of accession. The Protocol was approved by the Council of the European Union on behalf of the European Union and of the Member States and was ratified by the Russian Federation. Because of the interdependence between the European Union and Russia, we believe it is in our common interest to avoid the current negative spiral of relations. This is also essential for preserving the competitiveness of the European Union and Russia. Despite the difficulties, the EU and Russia are key economic and trade partners to each other. Cultural heritage and geographical proximity are also important links. Russia is a key player in the world economy and world politics. He is a permanent member of the UN Security Council, a member of the G20 and the WTO, one of the eight nuclear powers, and at regional level he is involved in economic and political processes in both the European and Asian regions. The safety and economic risks to the European Union and Europe can only be adequately addressed together, including Russia. For our country, Russia is both an economic partner, an important economic partner and a key player in the country's energy supply. For this reason, I call on this House to support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-121	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, Congressman Mihály Balla, lead speaker of the Fidesz, please.
u2018-06-12-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As you said, the world is in a major restructuring process today. This reorganization, which is taking place now, gives us a chance to establish the basic condition of peace in Europe, a stable and balanced relationship between Russia and the European Union, although we know that this cooperation system is currently facing difficulties and sanctions. But the European Community and the Russian Federation should, in our view, endeavour to cooperate in order to create more favourable conditions for trade in goods and services and capital. This is also in Hungary's economic interest. In particular, the Agreement concerns trade and investment, including the promotion of trade in transport services, as well as the establishment of a framework for comprehensive economic, financial and technical cooperation. The most important economic task for the coming years is that the Central European countries will be able to ensure their competitiveness by adding as wide as possible energy networks and opportunities to the Western Balkans. From the energy side, Hungary will be able to make its industry more competitive, and we see that Croatia can only grow to Central Europe if its energy system is able to connect to Central Europe. [[12.50]] For years, Hungary has been trying to build natural gas routes with as many countries as possible. The Agreement provides for the development of economic and social relations between the Parties through cooperation and the possibility of peaceful coexistence. With this in mind, our group supports the bill, and I ask the House to do so. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-12-123	Thank you very much. Congressman István Apáti, lead speaker of the Jobbik.
u2018-06-12-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you all know, Croatia became a member of the European Union in 2013, and it was included in the Act of Accession that it could accede to all international treaties concluded by the EU and its Member States by means of a protocol. The Protocol entered into force on 1 April 2016. Its original aim was to promote political dialogue, to stimulate trade and investment relations, and also to promote economic, financial and technical cooperation. However, for a few words or ideas, there is a need to address the EU-Russia sanctions policy, which affects not only exports from the EU to Russia, but also our country very seriously and sensitively. In the case of the latter, we can see a 15 percent loss from the introduction of sanctions until the end of 2016 and a 10 percent loss in Hungarian terms, which means a huge loss of EUR 1 billion in Hungary. [[István Szávay will take his place in the notary seat.]] Allow me, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, and as an interested representative or member of a family economy, to mention a very specific aspect, which we are not talking about here in Parliament and at committee level. This is the potential of Hungarian agriculture, the opportunities that we cannot take full advantage of at the moment, they seem to be completely lost, even though it would be crucial for the survival and long-term future of small and medium-sized family farms, and then let us not talk about it, I say the point is that we can also deliver high-quality Hungarian agricultural products to Russia. I am thinking of freshly harvested vegetables, fruit or even different products from the processing industry, because the Russian people, Russian consumers remember precisely from the previous period that agricultural products from Hungary, whether they are meat, vegetables, fruit, any product or crop, are of high quality, even canned products, and there would be a very high demand anyway. I have the good fortune to be in possession of information that there would be a decent Russian entrepreneur who would carry significant quantities of fruit and vegetables from Hungary to Russia and buy them. This would have a particularly beneficial effect, it would also have a positive impact on the fact that small and medium-sized family farms, the small and medium-sized peasant layer, would not be at the mercy of the convenience and pleasure of the purchasing mafia, and whether it is the purchase of vegetables or fruit, not to mention the only weather risks that can be partially eliminated, would be in a significantly more favourable position here. Here, demand and supply would find each other. Technically, we can't produce as much as we can't sell, so almost everything could be sold. There would also be interest in this direction, only because of sanctions, such relationships cannot develop at the moment. If this issue is already on the agenda here in the Parliament, it certainly does not depend on us, so we are not condemning the Prime Minister or blaming the government, because this is a question far beyond and beyond the Hungarian government's potential, and it might be worth encouraging the renegotiation of these sanctions, and in this connection, if progress is made, it would be welcome to put Hungarian agriculture in a favourable and favourable position, especially not on the oligarchs, but on small and medium-sized family farms. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-125	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, head speaker of the MSZP!
u2018-06-12-126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part, was signed on 24 June 1994. The Agreement entered into force on 1 December 1997. In particular, it aims to promote trade and investment, including trade in transport services, and to create a framework for comprehensive economic, financial and technical cooperation. The Republic of Croatia became a member of the European Union on 1 June 2013. Pursuant to the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, it shall accede to the international agreement signed or concluded by the European Union and its Member States by means of a Protocol. The Protocol was signed in Brussels on 17 December 2014, and the Russian Federation notified the European Union on 29 March 2016 of the approval of the Protocol, which entered into force on 1 April 2016. The Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-127	As you may know, we have reached the end of the speech. It would be possible to make a two-minute speech, but since no one's heard from you, we're gonna skip it now. Further speeches by Members? [[There's no candidate.]] I note that no one has made contact, so the general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to comment, so I will inform you, Mr Parliament, that the amendment proposals can be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, on the publication of the Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/400. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Takács, the author of the item on the agenda. Here.
u2018-06-12-128	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. The purpose of this bill is to publish a protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Community and their Member States, on the one hand, and Mongolia, on the other hand, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. On the basis of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, it has undertaken to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the European Union and its Member States by means of a Protocol annexed to these agreements. The Protocol should be applied on a provisional basis, having regard to Croatia's accession to the European Union, as from 1 June 2013, pending the completion of the procedures for its conclusion. The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, represents further progress on the increased political and economic engagement of the EU in East Asia. The Framework Agreement includes EU standardised policy clauses on human rights, international criminal courts, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism, as well as EU policies on taxation and migration. It also provides a basis for more effective cooperation between the EU and its Member States with Mongolia in development, trade, economic and judicial areas. The Framework Agreement covers areas such as health, environmental protection, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social issues, science and technology and transport. It also covers legal cooperation, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, organised crime and corruption. The Framework Agreement entered into force in international law on 1 November 2017. Political relations between the European Union and Mongolia have developed in a positive and comprehensive way since 1989. The EU considers Mongolia an important partner and is therefore involved in national and regional cooperation activities on the ground. Hungary established diplomatic relations with Mongolia on 28 April 1950. Our mission was reopened after the closure for financial reasons in 2006, in the presence of Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó on 29 May 2015. [[13.00]] The contractual foundations of Hungary's and Mongolia's relations are solid, the international conventions in force and our bilateral treaties provide an adequate background for dealing with the issues that arise. The development of EU-Mongol relations is also in line with the foreign policy intentions and interests of the Hungarian Government in support of the Eastern opening. I urge you to support the bill, taking into account the above. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The keynote speeches will come, first from Congressman Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-130	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Secretary of State has listed the arguments, at all, those contained in the framework agreement on cooperation. It may be important to point out that, in general, we do not think of Mongolia as an intermediary between the European Union and Russia's Eurasian Economic Union, although, in agreement with Hungary, which is a joint group of both communities, Mongolia can have its role seen from this aspect. Plus, in recent years, Mongolia has appreciated it. We also know that we are also experiencing an increasingly important, increasingly important relationship for Mongolia, the type of relationship that the European Union represents, and increasingly interested in the development of regional cooperation, if necessary, through the European Union's cooperation systems. On the other hand, Mongolia needs to be seen looking for herself and looking for a way forward that might put it on a course of development that will be able to play a decisive role in the region and in the region. I think that by supporting this bill, Parliament can also do a lot, because it is a fact and a fact that we are talking about the publication of a protocol on the accession of the Member States of the European Union and the Republic of Croatia, but with this bill, we can also help Hungary to become as much a part of the European Union's relations system as possible with its Member States and Mongolia, which is why our group supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-12-131	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Additional Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the EU and Mongolia is hereby ratified for Croatia's accession to the EU. On 30 April 2013, the Framework Agreement for Partnership and Cooperation with the EU was signed in Ulanbátor, replacing the Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement concluded in 1993. This Protocol was signed in Brussels on 31 October 2016, which is now being ratified. I call once again to the attention of the honourable Government to endeavour to bring it to Parliament within a shorter period of time when it is necessary to approve an international treaty. Mongolia's relations with the EU are getting deeper and Hungary must support this. Mongolia in the third century B.C. In the 18th century, Hun tribes were inhabited, and because of the Huns, the Chinese Emperor built the great wall of China, in view of their constant efforts to resist the Huns' conquest. Finally, Mongolian tribes settled in the X. century. From 1206 the country began to flourish under Genghis Khan, from 1634 the Manchu became Chinese, and after 250 years of Manchu dynasty in 1911 he became independent of China together with Tibet. From 1919 on, China again attacked it, and from 1924 it came under the influence of the Soviet Union and proclaimed the Mongolian People's Republic, it was practically a communist country. From 1991, when the Soviet Union broke up, it became the Republic of Mongolia again. The Jobbik Group welcomes such agreements and, of course, supports the approval of this Protocol. Such agreements strengthen the relationship between the countries of Internal Asia and the Western world, in which the EU is a cohesionist. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-12-133	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, head speaker of the MSZP!
u2018-06-12-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, constitutes a further step towards the enhanced political and economic engagement of the European Union in East Asia. He spoke of this fairly, Mr. Secretary of State. The Framework Agreement includes EU standardised policy clauses on human rights, the International Criminal Court, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism, as well as EU policies on taxation and migration. It provides a basis for more effective cooperation between the European Union and its Member States with Mongolia in the fields of development, trade, economic and judicial affairs. It covers areas such as health, environment, climate change, energy, education, culture, labour, employment and social issues, science and technology, and transport. It also covers legal cooperation, the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, organised crime and corruption. The framework agreement entered into force in international law on 1 November 2017, supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-135	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute speech. Congressman István Szávay, notary of Parliament, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-136	Thank you very much. I would like to make a very brief remark to the Secretary of State. I was pleased to hear how committed the Government is to developing Hungarian-Mongol relations and, in principle, the Secretary of State considers these relations to be very good and close. I believe so, too, that it is a country where they look at us positively, love us, and even consider us a relative. I would like to ask you, but I would like to ask the Fidesz faction or even Mr Balla, as President of the IPU, that I think the importance of Mongolian relations is the same, which is why I joined the Hungarian-Mongol IPU friendly section in the previous term, if this relationship is really that important to you, then please let us say a Fidesz representative who would like to deal with this issue in the next term. Over the past four years, the activities of the Hungarian-Mongol IPU were completed in a single inaugural meeting and in a meeting with the Ambassador. I think that in four years, more could have been done at parliamentary level for this matter. We will continue to be happy to participate in the work of this school. But if this relationship is really so important, I myself believe so, then I would ask my fellow Members with fidesz to say that, in this parliamentary dimension too, we should show the importance of relations with Mongolia with a little more weight. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-137	Thank you very much. No one else came forward for a two-minute speech. We now have further speeches to make. Would anyone like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is therefore closed. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State wishes to speak. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just a very short reflection, reflecting on the remarks made by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, for the record, has asked the Government to submit these proposals relatively quickly. I would like to point out that this does not actually have a temporal effect. The government is obviously trying to submit it taking into account the importance of general relations. But what I'd like to say is that we didn't do anything wrong. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-139	Thank you. Mr Secretary, can we see this as no longer wanting to comment on the item on the agenda? I see. I would like to tell you, Honourable Parliament, that the amendment proposals can be tabled at 4 p.m. on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, and of the draft law on the publication of its Protocols to the Agreement on Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part, will follow. The government referral is T/401. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Szabolcs Takács, Secretary of State, Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-140	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill is to announce the Association Agreement and the Protocols annexed to it between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part. [[13.10]] The aim of the agreement is to establish a political and economic association between the European Union and Chile based on reciprocity, mutual interest and deepening relations in all fields of application. The Agreement will contribute to facilitating trade in goods, services and capital, expanding trade between the Parties and balanced economic and social relations, and developing economic, social, cultural, financial and monetary cooperation. Chile was the first of the Latin American countries to conclude an association agreement with the European Union. The Treaty on Political and Trade Cooperation was signed in 2002, provisionally applied from 1 February 2003 and finally entered into force on 1 March 2005. Following the conclusion of the agreement, the Member States that joined the agreement in 2004, 2007 and 2013 agreed to maintain cooperation between the EU and Chile and, according to their own preferences, they were given the opportunity to broaden and deepen cooperation. By signing the Protocols to the Agreement, drawn up in accordance with it, the 13 new Member States, including Hungary, accepted the agreement as binding on themselves and undertook to publish it in national law. The joint declaration of the EU-Chile Summit on the margins of the EU-CELAC summit in January 2013, the meeting between the European Union and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, envisaged a comprehensive review of the current agreement. The process to explore the possibility of modernising the Agreement started in 2015 was completed at the 14th meeting of the EU-Chile Association Committee in Santiago on 31 January 2017. The negotiating mandate and negotiating directives were adopted by the Council of the European Union on 13 November 2017. The negotiations are proceeding at an appropriate pace, the last round was held on 17 May 2018 and the next round will take place on 21 and 22 June respectively. Although the revision of the agreement is ongoing and we support on the Hungarian side the efforts to modernise it, we see that this process may take years, and therefore our commitment to fulfil it, that is to say, the publication of the agreement in national law, is justified and proposed in our opinion. As far as bilateral relations between Hungary and Chile are concerned, cooperation is actively maintained and developed, there has been a Speaker's visit, on several occasions we can talk about foreign affairs visits, the two Speakers of the Chilean House have also visited Budapest recently, and virtually the cooperation between foreign ministries is ongoing, on the one hand within a bilateral framework, and on the other hand in connection with the meeting of multilateral forums, such as the General Assembly of the United Nations. In April 2018, 23 members of the Interparlamental Union of the Chilean House of Representatives, the bilateral division of the IPU in Chile-Hungarian for the 18-22 legislative period, were established. So you can see that our relationships are lively. Looking at the bigger picture, Chile is one of the most open, most integrated economies in the world economy, one of the most competitive countries in the Latin American region in terms of its territory, population and economic and external trade performance. Developing relations with the countries of the European Union is an important objective of Chilean diplomacy. The 2002 Association Agreement has already contributed to the success of the country's foreign trade-oriented economy. It is no longer expected that this will change. We see that 96 percent of the goods in trade between the Contracting Parties are already exempt from duty. So the Latin American region is important, economically open to the European Union, a country with absolute willingness to cooperate. So on the part of the government, we believe that it is justified to adopt this proposal. Please support this House. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-141	Thank you very much. Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of Fidesz, is the first among the keynote speeches. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In 2013 Hungarian businessmen of Hungarian origin rebuilt the Chilean-Hungarian Chamber of Commerce in Santiago, which cooperates with the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, as well as with the Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, I do not need to explain in the relations between the two countries that it was important that the presence at Ambassador level also became extremely important. That's why our embassy reopened in Chile in 2014. However, on the other hand, in relation to the European Union-Chile: the Association Agreement is also particularly important for Chile to develop relations with the European Union and its Member States, and an important diplomatic objective was the Association Agreement. Chile was the first of the Latin American countries to conclude an association agreement with the European Union. From the point of view of Hungary, as part of the southern opening, we have actually opened a number of foreign representations south of the equator. In particular, this is not symbolic, since Chile is our third largest trading partner in our trade relations in the region after Mexico and Brazil. This shows that the proposed legislation on the association agreement between the European Union and Chile has correctly and timely identified the interests of Hungary and Europe and is useful to us and fits into our foreign policy stance. I therefore ask the House with respect to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-12-143	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi Potocsány, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, the bill before us is a cooperation and association agreement with the Republic of Chile. It is extremely important to make relations with the Latin American countries even closer and more united. It is welcome that, in addition to economic cooperation, the Association Agreement draws attention to the importance of competitiveness and innovation and intends to take further action in this regard. We think it is particularly important to support measures in the field of agricultural policy, plant health measures, as we know that in several cases Hungary imports plant products and fruits from Chile. In addition, I considered it important to highlight statistical cooperation in statistical indicators It is important to carry out comparative trend analyses and other statements with Latin American countries as well. In any case, I feel that it is also a matter of strengthening gender cooperation in this Association Agreement, which is also important to make it easier for women to have full access to their fundamental rights and that further action will be taken in the Association Agreement. The Jobbik Group welcomes this agreement with the Republic of Chile and will support it, especially because family orientation is very important in Chile, and family members spend a lot of time with the child. I think we should follow them, spend as much quality time together as possible with families. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-145	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, head speaker of the MSZP!
u2018-06-12-146	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Indeed, Chile was the first of the Latin American countries to conclude an association agreement with the European Union. Following the conclusion of the Agreement, Member States which joined the Agreement in 2004, 2007 and 2013 did not consider the maintenance of Chilean-EU cooperation to be contrary to their national interests, and even had the opportunity to broaden and deepen cooperation in their own preferences. Obviously, this is what Hungary was living with. According to the proposal, Chile is our third largest trading partner in the Latin American region after Mexico and Brazil. If we look at the KSH data, Chile was the 62nd most important trading partner in Hungary in 2016. In this way, he has moved forward two places compared to previous years. In this connection, however, it is worth noting that the share of this share in the total Hungarian foreign trade is, unfortunately, only 0.1 percent, i.e. our exports did not reach 90 million dollars, and half of it was accounted for by Mercedes and Suzuki. [[13.20]] Unfortunately, the presentation does not mention that, unfortunately, in the first seven months of 2017, Hungarian exports fell by 25 percent to 42 million dollars compared to the same period of the previous year. It would be worth examining, and I welcome the Secretary of State's reply as to what caused this. The question arises, since, on the occasion of the opening in the south, in 2014, we reopened the Hungarian foreign representation closed in 2009, and if we also analyse that only after the re-opening of the foreign representation, a bilateral agreement on seasonal work visas was concluded, and, as we can see, bilateral economic relations did not improve to an expected extent, whether the reason for this is because I believe that dynamism is absolutely there. I also don't understand why the Hungarian National Trading House closed its branch in Chile. As the proposal states, the Member States which joined the Agreement between the European Community and Chile after the conclusion of the agreement were given the opportunity to broaden cooperation according to their own preferences. I am a little sorry that this could not be done in depth, but I am happy to hear the Secretary of State's reply, and nevertheless, since we consider this matter extremely important, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the agreement and the adoption of a bill for the publication of the attached protocols. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-12-147	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There would be two-minute speeches, but no one came forward. I would like to ask that, as its representatives speak, someone else would like to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-148	Thank you very much. Mr President, Reflecting on Mrs Gurmai Zita's question, I would like to say that the development of southern relations in the foreign policy of the newly formed government remains a priority, and obviously the reopening of the embassy is also part of this process. Unfortunately, sometimes there are ups and downs in a bilateral trade, this may mean temporary cessation of a product or product group, but obviously we are working to ensure that the opening that the government has announced from 2010 will continue to be gradual both in the eastern and southern direction. I think this is what re-opening embassies to this extent is supposed to do. Obviously, in international cooperation, it is necessary to give some time to develop a relationship, so we will wait a few years, and then I hope that if this work is consistent, we will be able to report a positive process. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-12-149	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have an after-the-meet speech. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-06-12-150	Mr President, Dear House, Fortunately, this week there was more than the average mention in the various genres of Parliament about the housing crisis in Hungary and housing poverty. As my fellow pro-government Members pack and pack, much of the young people in Hungary do so, so some 500 to 600 thousand people have left Hungary for forced reasons. It can also be said that the primary reason for this forced departure is the relatively low level of the Hungarian wage level, but as a second, catching up reason, housing problems are immediately found there, since if anyone is reasonable about the fact that the rents of 130-150 thousand forints in Budapest plus rents should be produced by a young start-up couple, then they see that this is the real mission: Impossible, therefore impossible, unsolvable task and mission. Indeed, the result of this flow chart is often that the young people concerned are not trying to get lucky at first in an adventurous way, but are trying to work abroad for a few years out of compulsion, but if, if, in the case of a child's blessing, they are there, and the good Lord gives them such favor, then the socialization of the child may begin there and these young people will no longer return home. It is an amazing problem that, in the midst of the migration spiral, let us say, the Minister of State Tállai already lives in a world where more people come home from abroad than more people leave here. This dream world is incomprehensible to me, and with reference to this we have called not only on the Secretary of State but also on some of his colleagues to return to reality. We also need to say, in relation to housing problems, that Article 21 The challenges of the century, the appearance and expansion of various assets under the sharing economy, are simply seen as a lame duck by the government. We can think, for example, of the debate on Uber, where I did not take the position for Uber at all, but also of banning similar acquis. I do not believe in political clubs, I believe in professional communication with stakeholders, and I believe in fair regulation which points to the regulation of instruments that inevitably gain ground through the Internet in Hungary. Here we are talking about Airbnb, a network of community accommodation, housing and room sharing sites, resulting in thousands of properties missing only from the Budapest real estate market, and a supply shortage that clearly leads to price rises. I have brought this problem up here, and one of the State Secretarys replied to it, by the way, in a somewhat unusual way from Fidesz, that these are indeed market conditions, which the government does not want to interfere with, and does not want to move these processes in this or that direction by any regulatory means. I don't want to go that far either, like in the case of the German model, where the rent price has a top authority ceiling. I do not want to interfere with market processes in such a drastic way, but if the government has not put in place a public-based rental-building programme, even though it could be done in a way that could be developed from the current budget, at least by means of fair regulation of Airbnb and its associates, it would be possible to slow down the process of removing as many properties from the Pest sublet market as possible, and by directing the supply side, it would be easy to achieve price settlement. What do I mean? For example, after consulting similar sharing economy participants, an agreement can be reached on the fact that a flat-rate form of taxation, whether per flat or per room, should not, after paying a flat-rate tax, be expected to be official if you comply with the rules, but you should be involved in public burdens, and you can, for example, support the public-based housing programme. A logical move in this system could be achieved. On the other hand, we find that the government does not seem to understand this problem. Unfortunately, with regard to sharing economy, many new economic sectors and economic instruments are expected to emerge, and the use of political clubs, the mere fines, is absolutely insufficient, especially since the inequality in the area of Airbnb, which is characterised by globalisation, is that less than 10 percent of the housing and housing publishers realise the majority of the benefits of this market, so it is not even possible to say that the Hungarian owners would have done better with this system. The wild drivings of globalisation can therefore be cut down and regulated in this respect, but the worst thing is that a government, as a lame duck, has not moved for eight years to tolerate the fact that the housing of our own young Hungarians will actually become an impossible mission in the capital, in Hungarian cities and later throughout the country. So we need to find a solution, and I think we need to find this solution together. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-12-151	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speech after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 18 June 2017. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita:]] The 18th. [[For signal:]] Undoubtedly, although in this document it is 2017. Since we have had this year behind us, we cannot even restore this with a House Committee decision, so it is right that honourable Members warn us, thank you. I therefore amend: the next meeting will take place on 18 June 2018. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good afternoon.
