u2018-10-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Welcome. The 12th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and László Varga will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. The questions will then take place from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. to approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, at the meeting of the House Committee on 18 October, has put forward a request for visual illustration during his speech before the agenda of the member of the group on this day's meeting, under Article 38/A of the Parliament Act. In accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. There was no consensus on the request at the meeting of the House Committee, and therefore Mr Speaker is the 13th Parliamentary Act. By its decision pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6, the application was rejected. I would like to inform you that the President of the sitting should act accordingly. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] The request was rejected by a decision taken pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. I would like to inform you that the President of the sitting should act accordingly. (Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!) We now turn to the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Democratic Coalition's representative, Ms Ágnes Vadai, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Why the Hungarians were put in jeopardy. Here you go. [[Dr. László Varga will take his place in the notary seat.]]
u2018-10-24-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have been horrified for weeks to see where Ukrainian-Hungarian relations can sink. We are now at the moment that the Hungarian Consul in Beregszász has already been expelled, and the Ukrainian Hungarians, who have also accepted Hungarian citizenship, are listed by a Ukrainian nationalist organization. According to the latest news, there are already 500 Hungarians living in Ukraine on the list who the Ukrainian extreme right wants to deport in the name of great nationalism, citing treason. In the meantime, the Ukrainian press reported that the names of the dual citizens could have come from the Russian secret service to the far right of Ukraine. If that were not enough, anti-Hungarian posters have already been posted in Transcarpathia to further whip the anger between Ukrainians and Hungarians. Yes, and according to the news, your alleged ally is doing this to the Ukrainian Hungarians. Honourable Members, I am truly sorry that Fidesz's first encounter with globalism is reflected in a cross-border treason. The data of the Ukrainians in question could only be obtained from the Hungarian State, the Hungarian State had these data, and you always identify yourself with the Hungarian State. You bought as many votes in Ukraine as you could in the campaign, and after the election you threw the Hungarians there to the Russians, who also used the far right in Ukraine to stir conflict. And as a result, the Ukrainian Hungarians are in serious danger today. This treason, my fellow Members, is not if someone says that only those who live or live here should vote about Hungary! Indeed, we Hungarians in Europe believe that only those who bear the consequences of their decision should have the right to vote, this is an important moral position, but we also say that the current Hungarian government must protect Hungarians living in minorities across the border. Since the change of regime, it has not occurred, either under the left or under the right, that a government has risked the lives and safety of Hungarians across the border. That's exactly what you did. At best, 500, but today there may be more Hungarians in danger in Ukraine, where the extreme right yells the same as you do at home: Ukraine belongs to the Ukrainians. They were tossed to them the Hungarian dual citizens, who a few months ago tried with all their strength to take to the polling booth with the Hungarian taxpayers' money. [[István Szilárd Németh: Shame on you!]] What do you expect from your master, fellow Members? They expected that Russia would not without hesitation throw the Hungarians to the far right of Ukraine if it could destabilize Transcarpathia? Did you expect that if you bow down and attack international sanctions against Russia or stop the NATO summit in Ukraine, Master Putin will be good? Did they really think that? I really don't know what's scarier: that in this big fidesz game they didn't count on the need to protect the Ukrainian Hungarians, or the scarier scenario that they knew that they had to protect the Hungarians, but they didn't do anything? [[Dr. István Simicskó will take his place in the notary seat.]] I look forward to what they're going to do in this situation. Obviously, they cannot ask the Ukrainian Government for help, since the country occupied by Russia with a gun will obviously not speak with a Russian puppet record. You can't count on the Russians either, because they just showed you how much you're worth in this big puzzle. In short, nothing but use you to weaken the EU. What will they do for the Ukrainian Hungarians? So far, a Ukrainian diplomat has been expelled. That's it. When hundreds of Hungarians are in danger across the border. You have so much influence on what's happening, you're expelling a diplomat. Wow. This is the impotent diplomatic interest we have seen from the Hungarian government in a long time! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál:]] You, if your interests dictate that anyone will be sacrificed, anyone will be thrown away. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: December 5, 2004.]] Tell me what you'll do if you've already put the Ukrainian Hungarians in danger. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is that something you can say?]] And while we're at it, please tell us how the data of the Ukrainian Hungarians got to the far right of Ukraine. How? Or should I ask you in Russian, so you can do better? I would like to ask you to spare me from the lies you have told so far in Parliament, because this will not help Hungarians living in Ukraine. If there is a patriotic duty now, my fellow Members, it is not your Hungarian-speaking talk, but a true European protection for Hungarians living within and outside the border. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you! A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-24-2	Thank you very much. I'm asking you, on behalf of the government, who would like to answer. [[For signal:]] Mr. Tamás Men-czer State Secretary, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You feel like you are not in the Hungarian Parliament, but in some science fiction film: a democratic coalition representative speaks about Hungarians across the border. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We've come this far because you won't protect them!]] In fact, it seems to me that the Democratic Coalition has ever defended the rights of Hungarians across the border. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's what we're doing right now!]] I would like to remind the House and the honourable Member on 5 December 2004: you have acted against Hungarians across the border. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's 2018, talk about that.]] You have acted in ways that would not be acceptable in any part of the world. You have acted in a way that is unfair, and you still hold this dishonest behavior to this day. I would like to remind the honourable Member that your party president and your candidate for Prime Minister did not have anything else to say during a parliamentary campaign, and she does not, to this day, have virtually nothing else to say but to incite against Hungarians across the border. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Shame!]] That's all he talks about, that's all they talk about, and that's all they represent. [[Noise from the benches of opposition parties.]] [[11.10]] It is worth listening to Hungarians across the border. Hungarians across the border have never told us that the Democratic Coalition should come and protect us; however, many times they have said that, for example, President Brenzovich, the leader of Transcarpathian Hungarians, that they can count on the Hungarian government, and the Hungarian government is the only one they can count on, and the Hungarian government is always there for them. I would also like to put some facts to the attention of the congresswoman, because it is indeed not a good situation, and what is happening in Transcarpathia is getting worse. They take rights one by one from the Hungarians of Transcarpathia [[Zsolt Gréczy: Thanks to you!]] Intimidating steps take place one after another. I would like to take these into consideration and also to point them out to the honourable Member. The education law has taken away the right to study in the mother tongue. KMKSZ's office in Ungvár was tried twice in a short time in a few weeks. That's the second time I've done it. I would like to draw your attention to the language law, which was adopted at first reading by the Ukrainian Parliament, which also reduces minority language use in the media, culture and public administration. So you can see a series of systematic steps: first, in education, minority language use is repressed [[Gergely Harvesto: What are you doing?]] And then in other areas of life. Here is the list you have mentioned in a rather strange context, of course, this is, of course, another action against the Hungarians, another fear raising, and it is clear that in Ukraine, the Hungarian national community is taking action against Hungary with a steering wheel. You are there in a bit of a role disorder and you are misinterpreting the situation where the Hungarian government is taking action against it. I know you don't like this. I know that the Democratic Coalition rejects every step of the way for Hungarians across the border. [[Gergely Harvester: You're lying! Zsolt Gréczy: Why are you lying?]] but the Hungarian government will continue to block and veto all Ukraine-NATO summits, high-level meetings [[Zsolt Gréczy: Are you protecting them with this?]] and we will also block Ukraine's Euroatlantic integration steps. [[Gergely Arató: The result of this is now visible!]] There are ongoing intimidation measures, such as the Hungarians and Hungarian entrepreneurs in Transcarpathia, those who participate in the economic development programme financed by the Hungarian government. And for the record, your excellent principle friend György Soros shows up in Transcarpathia and Ukraine. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, bravo! We're here! Zsolt Gréczy: You owe it to him to exist!]] cooperate with the Ukrainian Government, adopt a medal, gain ever greater political and economic influence. I'm saying, at least I know you're questioning that, but where George Soros showed up, on the one hand, it's gonna be a mess. [[Intervention from opposition benches: See Fidesz! Zsolt Gréczy: And the Fidesz was formed!]] On the other hand, Hungarians did not profit from it, they were even subjected to serious attacks and serious damage. I would like to refer once again to the fact that the Democratic Coalition does not have the least right. [[Gergely Harvesto: You don't tell me what you have the right to do!]] To perform [[Zsolt Gréczy: Who are you to say such a thing?]] to tell the Hungarian government to take account of minority politics at all. You've always been a pusher, you've never acted for Hungarians beyond the borders, you've always acted against them. And I would like to point out once again that the political message of an ex-Hungarian Prime Minister, candidate for Prime Minister, is nothing but an instigation against Hungarians beyond the borders and, by the way, against Christian churches. and gigs. This is your policy, and this is not ours; Hungarians across the border can still count on us. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-24-4	Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, MEP Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, asked for a speech entitled:, Parallels. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak primarily to the pro-government representatives. You love to appear in order the hero, the savior, who defend the country alone, defend Europe alone, and even the globe, because Soros's latest plan is to bring millions of immigrants through the Milky Way, and you are the only ones who are taking action against it. [[István Szilárd Németh's intervention. Csaba Dömötör: This was supposed to be a joke!]] In the context of 1956, let us ask you a basic question as to whose side you are on. I am very pleased that Secretary of State Rétvári is here to illustrate your deceitful policy. Minister of State Rétvári puts on a Mansfeld Péter T-shirt on or after 23 October of each year, but when György Mátsik asks Péter Mansfeld to die [[György Szilágyi: Yes!]] You'd have to decide your case, then you'd vote it off. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Like this, like this! Another cry from the opposition benches: Shame! Noise. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You were on stage with the social team!]] This is your anti-communism! You're gonna vote against the Lustration Act, you're gonna vote off the disclosure of the agent lists. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You were on stage with the social team yesterday!]] But here's your secretary of state in a Péter Mansfeld T-shirt. [[The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] Congratulations on that. Let's ask the non-poetic question, but the relevance of the system against which Hungarian freedom fighters fought in 1956 and what system they wanted. I'm just quoting a few of those 16 points. The freedom fighters of 56 demanded a new electoral system, a transformation of the economic and tax system, publicity in terms of external trade contracts, wage convergence, the party-neutral functioning of the courts, full freedom of opinion and freedom of speech, and clean and independent media relations. If you compare these with today's policies, whose side are you on? Who is in the best interest of their past eight years? The freedom fighters of 56 or the Rakosi who want to defeat it? No question. You've been dictating the Bolshevik tempo for eight years, against which you've always verbally hatched. As power conducted the avo in 1956 to protect the radio, their lie factory, you sent hundreds of police officers yesterday to Kunigunda Street to protect the MTVA headquarters. But there's nothing wrong with that. It's just the double standard again. Where was this police crowd, where was this police activity when it was your activists, paid activists, because obviously in the answer it will be said that we brought paid people there... no! We never paid protesters. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Bag money!]] No voters, no spoilers. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention. Németh Szilárd István: The Sasi will tell you when it's time to start!]] You and the police you control [[Noise.]] Where were your police officers when your paid people throughout the country, not only in Budapest, but also in the last small settlement, destroyed the billboards, whether they are private or private? At the time, you said and your police said that this freedom of expression would fit. And we're saying that every moment of yesterday fits into the freedom of expression, regardless of whether you're going to interpret everything that's happened in a different way. But speaking of MTVA, it's not a public service that happens there. And you know it. If we look at your activities, with the police's direction, what can we determine? Among other things, that a legitimate democratic government is never afraid to argue is never afraid to allow or allow expression by anyone. A cowardly, illegitimate government, on the other hand, is afraid. You're a coward to face the truth, you're a coward to confront arguments, so you're doing everything you can to prevent it. The flagship of this is now a party propaganda mocked by the public service. Because what's been going on in MTVA for almost 8 years in 0-24 is not public service, it's not objective, it's not balanced, it's not factual information. They're doing everything they can to paint their own virtual reality and poison the brains of millions of people. That is why it is no coincidence that we will no longer assist in this, that we are proclaiming boycotts, and I am asking this to appeal to opposition representatives, politicians and parties, so that no one legitimizes, not even in appearances, this disgusting lie factory. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We don't really go out, we're not invited in! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-10-24-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, on your behalf, I welcome the students and teachers of the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Now it's up to Secretary Dömötör. Here you go. [[11.20]]
u2018-10-24-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In Hungarian politics it is the custom of Ferenc Gyurcsány to commit various mischiefs, and then to count the moral principles on others. Looks like Jobbik's getting used to this, too. Honourable Congressman, In the House of Terror Museum there is a very talkative place, the room for changing, which is about those who, for the sake of power, take on any ideology, cooperate with anyone. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] This room shows how the little ones became commie collaborators. When we think about this room, we think about the road Jobbik went through more and more. Because if we asked a freshman university student to make a difference between any of Ferenc Gyurcsány's speeches, any of your press conferences and what you have to say, then he could scratch his head because it wouldn't be an easy task. That was our feeling, listening to his speech. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Nor is it a coincidence that Ferenc Gyurcsány's party has declared opposition, and you have defined resistance as their main policy. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: They say good morning and so do we!]] They could have held the two parties' convention together. Of course, it's your job to conduct a policy, that's your job, and we're just asking that if you end up at a dead end like you are now, you shouldn't blame the voters. I am glad that you spoke, because you were the one who recently said that hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary are voting on the basis of who will give them 3 forints more. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You can talk a lot about this!]] A significant part of society also does not bother to express opinion A or B. That's what you said, Your Honour. Before I am accused of living in front of this House with excavated examples, I would like to make it clear quickly that such disdainful Hungarianism is not the exception in Jobbik, but is now the rule. For example, consider what the party president spoke at the party's last convention; he said that in the Hungarians, servitude was dominated, and Jobbik's task was to eliminate it. Yesterday, this opinion was repeated by the party president. We never dreamed that Jobbik would end up the one that would infiltrate the gaps left behind by SZDSZ. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] As far as style and invaluable English are concerned. Honourable Congressman, If we put your statements together, you think the Hungarians have no opinion, you said that they can do anything for 3 forints, you said so yourself, and they are servile anyway, and the party president said this. [[Adam Mirkóczki: You're lying again because you're not exactly quoting!]] And if I add that Hungarians across the border were compared to Indians who could be bought with a handful of glass beads, then the overall picture could not be worse. That is the case, honourable Member. Do you know who the servants are? Those who went to the wages of an oligarch for a bag of money, who sent a representative to Brussels who was spying on another country. [[Noise in the ranks of the opposition.]] ; who, along with the left, would give Brussels a lot of power; who would be able to wear a lion with a guard, a butterfly tattoo, and a Heller Agnes pin; who would throw eggs at public buildings when they came down from the party centre, as they did yesterday. This policy has serious consequences: disbanding core organisations, increasingly harsh corruption scandals, and increasingly harsh and tougher war within the party. Honourable Congressman, In your speech, I understand you were referring to Bolshevism. He did this a few days after the Democratic Coalition practically helped the candidate of Ferenc Gyurcsány in a district election. [[Flash and noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] It's been a long drive from the guard vest. So, all in all, it's worth considering that if Gergely Pongráz could decide now whether or not to support Jobbik, he would. I think you know the answer. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise on the opposition side.]]
u2018-10-24-8	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Since we have reformists in our midst, all I can say is that it is a blessing, peace; therefore somehow a greater understanding of one another. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] This is what characterizes the next speech. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of the KDNP, is preparing to present his speech before the agenda with a title "Imperial aspirations from Brussels." [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Members, the Member has not yet said a word, so let me put it this way, do not predestinate what will happen. It's up to Congressman. Come on, let's go.
u2018-10-24-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank everyone who attended the beautiful holiday yesterday, any metropolitan or rural commemoration or celebration. Thanks to the police, the organizers and everyone who remembered on October 23rd. Yesterday we remembered the past, but the stakes of the future were in front of us. Of course, there were people who thought differently about this holiday, because according to a mayor with a moment, you don't even have to think about 1956, remember. Or we could talk about the Gyurcsány heritage now fully worthy, but also with a better campaign wind elected about Péter Márki-Zay [[Noise on the opposition side.]] In his festive interview, he threatened Molotov cocktails. Let me tell you that for the ninth year we have been able to celebrate in peace, because after the inhuman, aggressive and unacceptable Gyurcsányist terror in 2006, many of you have been afraid to go out on the street during the holiday, and many of you have looked at the police in fear behind them or across the street. Immigration will be the main theme and fate of the 2019 European elections, and it already is. The Hungarian opposition has always tried to deny this, we have seen it during the debate of the Sargentini report and in the debate of the parliamentary decision in response to it. The Hungarian opposition is always trying to deny that immigration will be the main topic of the European Parliament. Just because they deny it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't mean it doesn't This is the most important and fundamental issue for Europe's future. They may also deny it because they know that their confused position does not match the opinion of the majority of Hungarians and therefore ignore the gravity of the issue. We see that the greatness, strength and glory of Europe were given by the nation states competing and cooperating at the same time. In the days when the continent was full of power, nations respected each other's rights, defended the interests of their citizens and their citizens, worked well together and shared the blessings of peace, prosperity and security. We have defended this Europe so many times in our history, and we have said yes many times, and that is what we want today, Europe, as a country of nations. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said yesterday:. The continent was led astray not by the conscious nations, but by attempts to build an empire. Reich-building experiments and experimenters are responsible for the XX. For the terrible wars of the century, for the suffering of the sea and for the repeated uproar of a prosperous Europe. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The election in May is therefore about the future, and European peoples and people choose a future for themselves. There are clear signs of imperial efforts in Brussels to surrender the people to create a European empire. It is clear that the current leadership in Brussels requires a European empire to replace the alliance of free nations, a European empire governed not by the elected leaders of the peoples, but by the bureaucrats of Brussels. Therefore, they always want to teach a lesson out of imperial pride to those who disagree with them. With economic blackmail, as we see now in the case of Italy, with political threats, such as Romania, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, or in the case of shady slanders in state-of-law robes, such as in the case of Hungary or Poland. Interestingly, representatives of the idea of an imperial Europe are those who support immigration, who urge new migration routes, who want resettlement and family reunification programmes, who want to change Europe's population and face and its Christian culture. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, they deliberately did not protect Europe, if we could, so would they. The will was lacking, not the ability. The open society, the direction of the globalist Imperial approach, is one future for Europe, and the other is to return to the ideas that make Europe great, to the correct cooperation of strong nation states and to our Christian roots. Our answer is that independence and cooperation between nations must be chosen against global governance and control, and we must reject the ideology of globalism and promote the culture of patriotism instead. Faith, security, family, work, nation are values that are natural to our ancestors and are important to us, but now they are constantly and loudly attacked by those who want to weaken families, who deliberately confuse the concept of men and women, who think immigrants are better than the domestic population. This is why the current European election will be crucial. The future of our beloved continent depends on it. We believe that the current leadership is inadequate and is leading Europe astray, so we need a new leadership in Brussels, a new Commission and a new Parliament that protects its citizens and supports and promotes the cooperation of strong nation states. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-10	Thank you very much. I'd like everyone to respect the time frame part of the house rules. Now it's time for Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go. [[11.30]]
u2018-10-24-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The day after October 23, we are sitting here in Parliament, and I think it would be worthy of the revolutionaries of 62 years ago, the freedom fighters of 62 years ago, if we were to speak to each other here in Parliament with greater respect. [[Moore in the opposition benches.]] We are here in Parliament, the depositary of national sovereignty. This country had a window parlament 62 years ago, when only the party appointed the people who performed a theatre here in this Chamber. But those who took arms 62 years ago wanted to achieve Hungarian freedom and Hungarian independence. They wanted us not to sit in this Parliament as leaders from the capitals of foreign countries, to follow not only the party's orders, but also as depositaries of national sovereignty and national independence. This is a very big responsibility, honourable Members. They were not large, rich, influential people, they did not come from university cathedrals, if any, although there were some, or not from some position of social leadership. They were ordinary people who wanted to be able to live freely, and the country could act as an independent person. We, 62 years ago and 28 years ago since the change of regime, have had the opportunity to really represent national interests here in Parliament. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] We serve the nation. And when my fellow Members and fellow State Secretarys here are talking about national independence, so about patriotism and sovereignty, we can hear snarky yelling at the opposition side like what has happened here in the last few minutes, I think it is absolutely not worthy of the way we celebrated the anniversary of the revolution and the fight for freedom yesterday. [[Dr. Var-ga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] We, as my fellow Member has said, must be depositaries of sovereignty. In any case, we must look at the interests of the Hungarian people. Hungary's history was never a true success story when it was run from some imperial center. Although the different centers of different empires sought to influence Hungary's fate, when we were able to regain our sovereignty to a greater extent, when our independence was larger, even in this Chamber, in this Parliamentary Chamber more widely, Hungary's fate became more positive. So I do not advise or recommend to anyone that Hungary's position should be viewed at all in that system of thought, in that coordinate system, according to the paradigm of which power center we are near and away from; because this is always an effect. Our original goal, the real reason, is what the Hungarian national interest is. And compared to that, it will be secondary to which case we're going to be close to, and in another case, our position will be close to someone else, and our distances will also change. With empires, serving imperial policies, I think I don't have to explain why Hungary has never benefited. And, of course, in a different way, fortunately with much more peaceful means, but such experiments have always been and always will be. Some countries are used to having a colonial empire for generations. Some of their own welfare was not based on their own work, but on the surplus they brought in from the colonies, either in cheap mineral resources or in cheap labor. But that wasn't their achievement, but that's what they built their future on. This is not the way it is today, but by building a bureaucracy, a huge bureaucratic water head, but the principle is the same, how they can maintain their standard of living based on the work of others, not just theirs. This could have been the maintenance of the colonial empire during the colonial period, and now either by introducing cheaper wage labor elsewhere or in their own country. We can also see that, at European level, the European left is very much an engine in this. After all, the classic voting layer, the industrial work that was organised through the trade unions behind the European left, precisely because the European industry has recently been decommissioned, industrial production has moved to China and elsewhere, so this kind of social layer goes out from behind the European left. The European Left is looking for a new electoral layer, and it sees this in migrants, immigrants, who can replace those who were previously stable left-wing voters. That is why the liberals have become prisoners of the right, ideologically, and that is why they want to motorize and mobilise immigration for their own political survival. They have new tools, the development of bureaucracy, pressure through various NGOs, so-called pressure groups, civil society organisations, and social media censorship. We'll send you a message. Brussels and all other former colonial centers or imperial centers, that when Brussels has the public security it is in Budapest, we will listen to their advice. But until then, let's go our own Hungarian way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-12	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, applied for a speech before the agenda: Why does the government not spend HUF 4000 billion on Hungarian people for Paks 2? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2018-10-24-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The new investment in Paks is estimated to cost the Hungarian people about HUF 4000 billion. The Dialogue takes the view of Paks II. It will be built, it will be loss-making, outdated technology. It will cause incompetence, fallback, import dependency instead of developing secure, clean renewable energies that guarantee our independence. Don't get me wrong, with the extension of Paks I's life span, the Dialogue agrees, because building the country's energy supply on renewable energy sources is not realistic. Lately, it's just been a step backwards. But by the time Paks II. It will be built, renewable energies will be cheaper technologies. However, with regard to Paks I, we can draw conclusions from Paks II. As regards its operation, it is made with the same Russian technology, which is regularly malfunctioning. This year, we had to shut down the blocks 13 times for some mistake, last week. Let's not talk about environmental damage: in the summer canicula, we almost cooked the fish in the Danube. The minister's answer was that the Danube was only warmed up in a small row, the river did not reach the officially maximized 30 degrees because the power plant was recharged. But what if another power plant will operate on this section of the Danube? Paks II was designed for 95 percent operation area, and it won't work 95 percent if it has to be permanently recharged. But let's skip energy policy for a moment and see what other purposes the HUF 4,000 billion for Paks expansion could be spent on! For example, with this kind of money in health care, all health care institutions could be renovated and the pay of the workers doubled. Or 13 years out of 4,000 billion could cover the salary increase of doctors and nurses. In the social field, we could feed 500 000 children in need over the next 50 years. With this amount, you could pay six years of double family allowance. And with this money, you can get 36 years of double job search aid. But to bring up current issues here, two current problems, 32 years of care fees can be paid out of this amount, or 778 thousand homeless people can be created out of the total 4000 billion, with 93,000 mentors and social workers' wages coming out of this money for the next ten years. And before the pro-government representatives stand up and say that the Dialogue wants to make a homeless shelter of 4,000 billion, these were just examples of what to spend it on. In the area of housing, this money could be used to renovate all the municipal housing in the country, which would be about 100,000 apartments, to build a social housing system, to virtually eliminate the housing crisis. It would be easier for those in need, young people, to get housing. Out of the quarter of the money intended for Paks II, the entire Hungarian housing population could be modernised, creating 100,000 Hungarian jobs and turning Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises into suppliers. This money could be spent on the promotion of energy-enhancing housing, heating modernisation, building insulation, replacement of windows. This can save up to 50 percent of energy. If energy consumption in the residential sector is reduced by 40-50 percent, it could also trigger the construction of another power plant, such as Paks II. It solves the country's emission reduction commitments, frees it from dependence on energy imports and parts of it, and also creates jobs in small settlements where there is currently no job. Then it's a question of why Paks is going to the second place with all this money. Why doesn't the government give this money to the Hungarian people? Why are you spending this money on lossless, outdated technology? In fact, whose interest it is to build Paks II.? Because the Hungarian people certainly don't. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-10-24-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Attila Aszodi, State Secretary, will answer. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-10-24-15	Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. Mr President, our energy policy is very, very different and we see the situation of the Hungarian economy very, very differently. [[11.40]] I think that the picture you painted here, that this money should be spent on aid or the social sector, is a complete misunderstanding of how the country works, how the economy works, and what it takes to keep this country going. I am pleased that we agree that the extension of the current Paks Nuclear Power Plant blocks is necessary; you acknowledge this, and this is a very good starting point, since the Paks II project is nothing more than capacity maintenance. The reason we are implementing Project Paks II is because in the '30s, the current blocks will be shut down. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] They were designed for 30 years of operation and are currently undergoing a 20-year extension of these blocks, so they will stop in the 30s. In order for nuclear power to remain in the energy mix, we need new blocks, because after the.30s, the current blocks will not be technically able to comply, and will not be able to operate any longer. We are developing this basic infrastructure, and we are building the two new blocks at the Paks site so that this current situation, which currently exists in electricity supply, can last until the end of the century. Why the Need for a Nuclear Power Plant [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] and why is it not possible to replace this investment either by renovating housing or by developing renewable energy sources? That's a good question. Here's the answer to that. Renewable energy sources, which you prefer, primarily wind and solar energy, depend on the weather. They have a place in the electricity system, but they can't replace a nuclear power plant, which is a power plant. The nuclear power plant operates continuously, day and night, in winter and summer, and solar and wind power is constantly unavailable. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) The renovation of apartments is also an important goal, but it is not a substitute for nuclear power plant investment, because the heating of our apartments is currently essentially based on natural gas and the nuclear power plant produces electricity. Moreover, with the nuclear power plant, we are reducing our dependence on imports, our dependence on fixed-line energy imports, as nuclear fuel is very well-stocked, can be stored for several years, in small volumes, and as a result we are not exposed to natural gas imports and electricity imports that would be subject to if the nuclear power plant were to be shut down, we would implement the energy policy proposed by you, and in fact we would have to import more electricity and more natural gas to maintain the system's functionality. It is also very important for me to remember electricity imports. Today Hungary is one of the countries most exposed to electricity imports in the European Union, with a share of imports above 30%. This means a great deal of vulnerability. Of course, at the moment, this electricity is cheap, which comes from the source of imports, but basically it comes from foreign coal power plants that we import, and these coal plants will end their operation as a result of the European Union's action against climate change. We also need basic infrastructure in the electricity system, we need nuclear power plant investment. I would also like to address environmental issues. You mentioned the heat load of the Danube. In 2015, we carried out a very wide-ranging environmental impact assessment and consultation process in which we informed all interested parties about the environmental impact of these two new blocks. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] The effect is actually the heat load of the Danube, we know this effect very well, because the current blocks have been operating for 30 years, and we know exactly what effect this heat load has on the Danube. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) If you visit the Paks section, you will see that most anglers are located in the vicinity of the water extraction work or water recycling, this section is very much loved by fish, among other things, due to the diverse flow conditions. The consequences of climate change have also been taken into account. If you read the environmental impact assessment, you can see that the consequences of climate change have been taken into account in the calculations, and that the power plant, the new blocks, will be designed, built and operated in such a way as to meet the strictest environmental standards, just in order to protect both the Danube and the wider environment, and the power plant will safely serve electricity supply until the end of the century. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-16	Thank you very much. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, applied for a speech before the agenda:. on the issue of higher education in rural areas. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-17	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, in general, I would like to talk a little bit about the situation of Hungarian higher education, precisely the effects of the government's destruction that we have seen in recent years, and specifically the situation of rural higher education, the situation of higher education in the countryside, and the prospects that can be expected in the press from various statements that the government is launching some kind of reform, although we know very little about the details of this. At the same time, we have reason to worry, because if Fidesz announces some kind of reform, it typically manifests itself in some kind of destruction, dismantling, and austerity. What we know from your reform, which you have tabled or led forward, is that you would open up the possibility of privateising higher education and, in this way, clearly extend the pay-per-view of higher education. This would obviously drive a lot more young people out of the potential of higher education than before, and would contribute to the tragic process of leaving the country during the past period, typically under your governance, hundreds of thousands of young people. In addition, there is consensus that the kind of reform, and I say it very strongly in quotes, is that reform, which you have been rocking, or what can be expected, would be extremely tragic from the point of view of rural higher education, which is already in a very difficult situation. Your governance has also affected rural higher education in general over the past period. It is worth highlighting this on the basis of some statistics what it means, what your governance meant in this respect, and here I stress that higher education is in a very difficult situation at national level. I can underline this with one number, or a number of very definite ones: in 2010, 109 thousand people could start their studies in higher education, last year only 72 thousand more are obviously the continuous restrictions, withdrawal of funds, degrading teaching wages and a very typical figure and symptom of others. At the same time, even within the tragic situation of higher education, there is a constant decline in proportion, and therefore rural higher education is constantly lacking. Between 2009 and 2017, the proportion of candidates for higher education institutions and rural institutions in the capital deteriorated sharply. While in the past there was a vast majority of candidates for rural institutions, this meant a 53 percent change in the percentage by 2017, now 53 percent of students are applying to institutions in the capital. In the case of students admitted, similar figures can be seen: in 2009, 42 percent of them were admitted to capital institutions, now 51 percent. Similarly, rural, regional universities have recently lost 13 thousand students while Budapest universities stagnated, and this is obviously positive in itself that there was no loss of student numbers, but why is this happening in relation to rural institutions? With regard to rural colleges, or, let's say, applied universities, we can say that between 11 and 13 people lost 10 thousand students, there was a loss in Budapest, there were 5 thousand people. A few more figures: the University of Miskolc's former 14 800 student number has fallen to 9200 today. In Szeged, the same number came from 28,000 to 21,000. In Pécs, the number of students fell from the former 31,000 to less than 20,000, from 31,000 in Debrecen to less than 27,000. It is important to know that, in addition to the fact that young people in rural areas are thus excluded from universities and higher education institutions, these institutions have a huge role to play in addition to the educational function, in terms of rural areas and rural cities, so it has social, cultural and economic importance. Both the presence of students, the participation of educators and the companies maintained by universities are of great importance, so this type of governance, the negative impact of their governance on rural areas, and in this way your governance contributes to the demise of the countryside; otherwise, this can be said on the basis of all other aspects. Unfortunately, on the basis of statistics, 31 percent of the EU population participated in higher education, Hungary has a 7 percent lower rate, but it is typically the worst possible rate in rural areas, and unfortunately, well-educated young people leave these areas mainly. I have a few questions, taking advantage of the fact that the Secretary of State is here. Can anyone, Mr. Secretary, know the specific details of the higher education reform that you have implemented? Have any discussions or impact assessments been carried out in relation to this, what is to be expected after the so-called reforms that you have known? What is the purpose of this, the continuous and ever-increasing destruction of higher education, the reduction of restrictions? Do they want to drive another 100,000 young people out of the country? I would also like to ask you, although you may not be the competent response to this, why the Hungarian government is constantly punishing the Hungarian countryside. Thank you very much. [[11.50]]
u2018-10-24-18	Thank you, too. Secretary Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I believe that the rural opportunities of Hungarian youth are not decreasing, but rather the rural organisations of the LMP. We don't see a week when someone from the LMP doesn't stand up somewhere, and they don't leave the party spectacularly. Last time, precisely their MEP stood up and said that without debate, the Mayan Other Politics, the LMP, which I could not defend in public with a conscience and a good conscience. Your policy cannot be defended either by your MEP, but rather by quitting the LMP, but we can hear the same quotes from almost all your former Presidents. I don't know if you're a president who, in two years' time, will consider your party unsuitable, just like András Schiffer, Bernadett Szél or Ákos Hadházy. Sallai R. Benedek said it was a shame to see what the LMP had become, and he was very sorry to talk people into it in the countryside... [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: It's been a minute!]] I feel ashamed in front of those who have done this before... [[Intercom from Jobbik: Talk about higher education! Constant noise, interruptions.]]
u2018-10-24-20	You're wrong. The Secretary of State has the floor. [[Uproar, interruptions.]] So when you're done, you can... Try it, Mr. Secretary, and once again, please.
u2018-10-24-21	Thank you very much. So it seems to you that your politicians and perhaps some of your country politicians have already left the party, this sinking ship, so they're trying to turn different false news into political capital. One of these is obviously what cannot be rejected enough here in Parliament's walls, the proposals for introducing tuition fees, which were indeed ten years ago, but in 2008 Fidesz and KDNP were able to prevent it from being introduced. The Socialists with whom you now have an ever closer relationship have received their President from the Socialists, the former socialist politician now leads the May Other Politics, when he was politicalized or prepared in the Socialist Party, then the socialists introduced the tuition fee. It is interesting that you will be chaired by the introductions at this time against a proposal for tuition that does not exist. This shows how tangled the opposition is, and in fact, they are now trying to pass from almost any party, with any false news. What is the government's intention, honourable Member, has been on the Internet since 2014, on the government's website, the "Development in Higher Education" strategy. If you read this, you can see everything and see how we have progressed step by step in implementing this. An important part of this was the provision of additional sources of higher education, because if you look at total education, we spend 606 billion forints more on education now, or we will spend more in 2019 than what was accepted in the budget. But if you only collect higher education lines in the 2010 and 19 budgets, then you see that we spend 46.1 percent more on universities, university students than we did in the 2010 budget. If the Higher Education Act was introduced, there was also a very important change in it specifically for the benefit of rural students, which did not want to reduce but to increase the number of rural institutions precisely, since Community higher education training centres were established that took higher education to exactly places where there was no university or college. This legal form is also intended to enable as many rural young people as possible to study locally. You can also read from the strategy, Mr President, that we are giving young people in rural areas the opportunity to learn more, and we want to strengthen more training, including agricultural, IT, technical and pedagogical training. You can also see that there is 141 billion HUF available from development funds for higher education institutions, and you can also see that the number of first-place applicants increased in 2017 compared to 2010. You did not tell a number pair of your own number pairs how the number of the age group concerned decreased between 2010-18. If you had also missed how many people were born 18-19 years earlier, you would have seen that the difference could otherwise be obtained from this number. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Definitely not true!]] Unfortunately, compared to this year, 18 years earlier, fewer people were born, as if to see how many were born 18 years earlier than in 2010. In addition, the number of instructors increased by 1600, the number of Master's students increased by 10 percent, and the number of students participating in undivided training increased by 37 percent. The HUF 13 billion debt of higher education institutions decreased by 3.3 billion, while the cash reserve increased from HUF 64 billion to HUF 289 billion. We have therefore tried to ensure the stability of universities, and you can tell us any false news, but there is still more extensive and more useful training for young people in the labour market. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-22	Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, applied for a speech before the agenda:. Solution for the problem of Hungarian public education. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-23	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Rétvári! I would like to respond to an earlier sentence. For the last time, the Nazis were his imperial efforts. Your Prime Minister, the Hungarian Prime Minister, said that yesterday. You consider Horthy to be your ancestors, bringing back the entire system of horthysm. Count with your own conscience and voters that the nation-state structure that brings Europe back to a previously fragmented nation-state structure has led to what war! It must be understood that the European Union does not have an imperial ambition, but rather the Second World War, an attempt after world combustion to ensure that nation states do not slaughter each other, but preserve peace on the continent, and that nation states can provide their own prosperity in the context of global globalisation. If you are in this position after two losing world wars to see such a fragmented and non-cooperative Europe in Hungary, it is your responsibility, but the entire opposition will face a sharp and upright backbone. Just as we do not tolerate the fact that Imre Nagy is slowly being written out of the National Basics Plan. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Very good!]] "The statue of Imre Nagy is to be taken away and his democracy is called into question. You will shamelessly deny and conceal this, because at that time there was an image, you see it as an exclusive national movement and consider it a nationalist movement, while forgetting its democratic character. I don't even know if that word means anything to you. But once we get to it, a democratic country can only be achieved with democratic education and a school system in Hungary, but you do not know this by reputation. It is used as an instrument of power policy and is viewed as a whole education policy, and indeed there are symptoms of the crisis. Only in the last week there hasn't been a day in Hungary that there hasn't been any educational scandal. At one school, the principal and the doorman resigned, and the next day at the other school, 12 teachers said that they couldn't do this anymore. In addition to the knowledge crisis that you have developed, Hungarian education has also gone into a deep moral and moral crisis, and it proves that they leave the field with a multitude of teachers, and there is a huge shortage of teachers, that in this system they can not only teach, raise, but they can hardly exist. But last week your Fidesz representative, Hungary's Commissioner for Education at the European Union, Tibor Navracsics pointed out in the Education and Training Monitor that Hungarian education is really giving rise to very serious crisis symptoms in Hungary. One of these serious symptoms, which my fellow Member spoke about before me, is that Hungarian students are not allowed into higher education institutions. Since 2010, over 90,000 students have dropped out of higher education and should be there. They do not study in Hungarian higher education institutions, but they do not get there in the majority or in the majority, but they are looking for their success abroad. By announcing self-sustaining higher education, we fear that more will be eliminated. We should not improve the quality of higher education by excluding those who are not worthy of it from higher education! Another serious symptom, to which Mr Tibor Navracsics pointed out, is the dropout. The Education Office, for God's sake, is closed, but now he said that there are over 80,000 children in Hungary, who have not been cleaned out of public education without a professional, primary education degree. How will these children even fulfill the civil obligations that you right-wing politicians always face the Hungarians? Notice that they cannot pay taxes, they cannot be workers, they cannot pay pension and health contributions to children who do not receive the fundamental right to access education, which is basically constitutional! I would like to continue by saying that, therefore, the Dialogue and the Association of the MSZP have submitted to Parliament a proposal for a resolution on the minimum education, signed with the citizens by several parliamentary parties and parliamentary representatives outside the Parliament, which will provide a basis for the discussion of this in Hungary, and you will accept it, so that we can recover from the miserable and very sad situation in which Hungarian society and Hungarian education have been brought, with a policy of ordinary, small steps. Think about it, because this country can do a lot more than you can get out of it right now. Thank you. [[12.00]]
u2018-10-24-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State of Rétvár reflects. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There is one thing that we can be sure of from the beginning of your speech that there is a huge conceptual confusion in your head, honourable Member. For you, the nation state is equal to war, so you believe that peace must be fought in a way that eliminates nation states all over the world. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: You have conceptual confusion!]] This was an excellent speech, which you could have said to Komintern or any international communist organization at your 50s, 60s and 70s conference; this is the communist internationalism you have just presented to us in red. This was exactly what they tried to destroy the nation states in the time of the Warsaw Treaty, in the KGST period, they said that patriotism, that faith should be persecuted, and that only communist internationalism is important, because we are primarily communists and internationalists, and secondly we have a place of residence, that someone came from Hungary, someone from Poland, another Bulgaria, but this common communist idea is what holds everyone together. We didn't think we'd get another ideological training one day after the 23rd of October. Although we have seen a miracle that the world killer idea, the creator of Marxism, was being erected months ago, and even Jean-Claude Juncker is going there to pay his respects, we were also surprised, but the fact that the congresswoman was once again romanticizing the ideology of communist internationalism was even more surprising. And I refuse to allow you to de-nationalize the '56 revolutionaries or to use any other negative sign. It was a very glorious period in Hungarian history, and the brave young and older ones who would have sacrificed their own lives for Hungary deserve respect and respect. Turning to the issue of education:, Solution to the problem of Hungarian public education, the title seemed ambitious enough to solve all the problems of Hungarian public education in five minutes. Forgot to present their previous proposals, such as tuition fees [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You just introduced him!]] , the small-town school closure, in 381 settlements, locked the school doors, the dismissal of 15,000 teachers, the taking of a month's wages. These were your previous proposals to solve the problems of Hungarian public education, which did not solve the problems, but created new ones and new ones. Then I listened to the speakers at your event yesterday. It was written that the teachers were told that you were on a stage, many of you, in such a red-blurred line of speakers that teachers today [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] This is what you said about yesterday's event, 170,000 teachers you said yesterday: teachers must teach the same lie today as they did then. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You said that 170,000 teachers [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: We were talking about you!]] At a joint event with you, it was said that 170,000 teachers lie to Hungarian students every day in Hungarian schools. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That means you're at war with all the teachers. By the way, on behalf of teachers, we are obviously asking you to say to 170,000 Hungarian teachers that they lie to students every day, lie to children. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] That you don't like teachers, because in the last elections, neither teachers nor others have voted for you to the extent that they can govern, but they have fallen into opposition and, among other things, the teachers have not voted for you, this may be an understandable line of thought for you. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: How do you know? How do you know, Mr. Secretary?]] However, it is unacceptable; it is unacceptable for you to organise an event as a co-organizer where one speaker will lie to 170,000 Hungarian teachers. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: This was about the government! Noise in opposition lines.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In contrast to what you say and do, we raised the wages of teachers by 50 percent. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We too!]] This is why the number of teachers has increased by 30 percent. Today, there are fewer children in Hungary for a teacher than the OECD average. In the OECD average, a educator has to deal with 13.6 children, a Hungarian educator with 10.4 students. 68 520 educators in the rating system have already qualified as educators II. Category 1. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Completely unnecessary!]] This HUF 606 billion surplus, which is included in the education budget, can be added to a HUF 125 billion educational and development programme. In addition, a total of 97 thousand digital devices have been sent to schools in the past months and a year or two, we have made textbooks free to 1-9 classes, we spend well more than before, 2.5 times as much for school social meals. [[Intercoms to the president: Time! Time!]] The number of graduates increased from 17 to 20.5 percent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the proportion of Roma and Gypsies attending the university has doubled. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, applied for a speech before the agenda: . News affairs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We can see that the debate on immigration is not quiet, as in Brussels the European Commission will continue to come up with proposals for solutions on resettlement programmes. In spite of many countries, Brussels still wants to centralise border protection, thus taking away the right of the Member States, our right to decide who is allowed to stay in Hungary and in the rest of Europe. Against the proposals of the European Commission, Hungary's borders will be protected by Hungarian soldiers and Hungarian police, and the country will not accept any resettlement programme. Border protection is both a national and an EU obligation, not only national legislation, but also the Schengen Convention, so Hungary and the other countries must fulfil this obligation. Hungary has proven several times in this area: we can defend our borders, and we do not need to be forced to do so by any higher EU power. Border protection is a sovereignty issue, and Hungary insists on fulfilling this task. Even if they increase the number of Frontex, this would not be suitable for the task. The difference of opinion due to migration has led Hungary to a witch hunt dressed in political robes, and the Hungarian immigration policy is now being cornered by the Sargentini report, all of which the European Parliament has failed to comply with its own rules. It is shocking that the EP did not know what rules it was going to vote on two days before the vote and had to seek legal advice. This procedure infringes legal certainty and the principle of good faith cooperation. The Government turned to the European Court of Justice last Wednesday because it disputes the regularity of the adoption of the Sargentini report by the European Parliament. According to the Hungarian position, the EP vote to initiate the procedure under Article 7 of the EU Treaty before the European Council did not have the necessary two-thirds support, since the abstentions should have been considered a cast vote. It is clear that the votes remaining must also be taken into account, the abstention being considered as one vote, which is a non-voting vote, and on this basis there was no two-thirds majority required in the EP vote. This is a very important precedent, because the EU is a community of law, and if Member States are to expect compliance, so is the EU institutions, including the European Parliament. The report on the rule of law in Hungary is emotionally overheated, ignoring the facts, and therefore its content is debated by many. The reason for this report may be that the government has a strong position on migration that it does not want to change. In this we are also strengthened by the statements of the leaders of the Visegrád countries, as they can see that Hungary's destruction and the use of double standards are also about their intimidation against us. You know perfectly well that if you leave this alone, if you do not agree with the opinion of the decision-makers in Brussels, you can easily find yourself in the situation that Hungary is now in. It also shows that Brussels and Strasbourg bureaucrats, ignoring the rules, are making every effort to put Hungary out of business before the EP elections next May and intimidate the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. It is sad that the Hungarian opposition assists in all this and is even sadder when Hungarian politicians become leaders of this process. [[12.10]] The Hungarian people have already taken a clear position on the subject of immigration on several occasions, as the April campaign was all about immigration and, in this context, the future of Hungary, not to mention the referendum in 2016, where more than 3 million Hungarian citizens have expressed their views that they do not ask for immigration. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2018-10-24-28	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, reflects. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-24-29	Mr. President. Dear House, Yesterday we celebrated the 62nd anniversary of the Fifty-Six Revolution and Freedom Fight, with tens of thousands of Hungarians celebrating peacefully on the five continents of the world. I would like to thank everyone who remembered the Pest boys in a worthy way, those who paid the most expensive price for Hungarian freedom and independence. October 23rd, in addition to commemoration and fuss, it is also about drawing strength to future struggles. We will need this, because they are threatening Hungary's self-determination and independence in different ways, but still in several directions. We cannot ignore this threat. The biggest threat we are facing now is that, along a well-defined ideology, they are trying to override the powers of the nation state, even Congresswoman Kunhalmi confesses, that is what she was talking about, and I would like to replace the principle of the Europe of nations with the principle of open society. If someone says that all this is an abstract debate and there is no leg in reality, then I suggest that you look calmly at what plans the Brussels institutions have put on the table in different strategic areas, and sooner or later I would like to pour these plans into concrete. These have in common the fact that they go beyond the powers and powers laid down in the Treaties, as well as the Sargentini report, which included in writing the fact that it has gone beyond the issues to which it would otherwise be entitled. As far as individual areas are concerned, let us take, say, the issue of taxation, we all remember well how they tried to intervene on the issue of the special tax on multinationals, corporate tax, and, if we understand correctly, the European Parliament would now also be involved in VAT regulation. Then there is the definition of energy prices; from time to time, the idea of no regulatory pricing in any Member State, no price limits. If this were to be done, it would practically kill the cost reduction. [[Gergely Harvester: The gas will be cheaper!]] Despite the fact that market price regulation has led to price increases in most places, this idea is emerging more and more often. We're also seeing attempts at withdrawal in the field of justice. Unfortunately, these experiments are supported by virtually all parties of the opposition. Last but not least, and now that is the most pressing issue, there is the issue of immigration. If someone thought that the European Commission would review its ideas so far on the basis of the experience of the past three years, they would unfortunately be disappointed. The main problem is that they still view the whole migration crisis with economic spectacles alone, they say that this is a good opportunity to solve labour market and population problems. On the other hand, they cannot say a single place where migration would have solved any such problem. Either way, the European Commission and the EU institutions would weaken border protection powers. Once again, the idea of a compulsory quota is crawling back, and they even want to introduce a so-called humanitarian visa to increase the influx of so-called workers. These proposals are all on the negotiating table. [[Bence of Turdai: What are you talking about?]] Everyone's free to see it. As regards the comments and positions made by Congresswoman Kunhalmi, she said that European cooperation provides peace and prosperity. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: To the nation states!]] This objective is, by the way, correct and sound good. But the thing is, Congresswoman, what is going on is not going to serve peace or prosperity. Millions of people have come in in recent years [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What you do does not serve! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It does not serve prosperity!]] There's been millions of people coming in over the years, we don't really know who they are. This is also recognised by the EU institutions. More terrorist attacks, parallel societies are developing, and as far as prosperity is concerned, this phenomenon is extremely burdensome for the budgets of the target countries. For example, in Germany, the expenditure equivalent to 700 thousand forints per person costs a single immigrant's care, and this would affect us as soon as the compulsory resettlement programme is introduced. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: How much did the settlement policy cost?]] To those comments, to those opposition claims that the whole migration crisis has calmed down, I would like to draw your attention to the declarations made in Turkey. Turkey demands that we start introducing a compulsory resettlement programme as soon as possible. So, this House, in our view, [[Gergely Harvesto: Your buddy was here! He's your buddy!]] Hungary must resist efforts to weaken national self-determination [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We have a responsibility to ensure that no one takes away from Hungary powers of a strategic nature. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-30	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:15 p.m., we're gonna start discussing questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they not feel the danger of increasing teacher shortages? It's an address. Congressman Ander has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Despite the fact that the National Professional Association of Department Chiefs and the Pedagogical Trade Unions talk about a shortage of thousands of teachers, the government denies the obvious facts. A third drop in teacher training is further aggravated by the high number of leavers, and this scholarship will not help. Plus, the faculty's getting old, the retirement bomb's ticking, and it's gonna explode. No wonder. Where are the times when even István Nagyatádi Szabó, who became Minister of State, gave his former elementary school teacher a stroke and called him master, or when a beginner high school teacher took home 250 pengo a month with the average number of days moving around 2 pengo? Of course, Klebelsberg wasn't just a front then. Recently, Viktor Orbán said that the talent and knowledge of young people covered Europe's competitiveness. Today, however, the National Association of Employers and Industrialists has admitted that there is a serious problem and has broken up with the deaf talk of the Industry Chamber proclaiming demented training. Without teachers, how do they want to improve the situation that even compared with the V4 states, Hungary has the lowest added value in exports? This could only be improved with well-trained society and respected teachers. But you're going to put another shovel on the threat of a teacher's shortage by saying that from 2020 only those who already have a secondary language exam can apply. However, according to surveys, two thirds of young people applying for teacher training do not have a language exam. Why don't you feel that domestic education is in huge trouble? If you feel it, and you feel it, Mr. Secretary, then explain why you have the insolence to save your own children in private schools demanding millions of tuitions and leave this education to the common people. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-24-32	Mr. Secretary of State of Retvár prepared for him.
u2018-10-24-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In many countries of Europe, the issue of education is facing similar situations and similar tasks. In Hungary and elsewhere, there are obviously teachers over the age of 50 who will have to give their place to younger teachers in a decade or two. But this ratio is much higher in Germany, for example, than in Hungary. In recent years, we have taken a number of measures to ensure that teachers are re-acquired as much as possible. The most important thing was obviously the wage increase. As a result, while in 2010 a young person starting a career earned only HUF 129 500, this is now 73 thousand forints higher, 203,000 forints higher, and we would like to increase this further in the coming years, as soon as we can. Another important example is that while a 20-year-old college teacher earned 149 145 forints in 2010, he now earns 152 thousand more, 301 thousand forints. These increases were so high that if you look at Hungary's top position among the most developed countries, among OECD Member States, say, between 2013 and 15, where teachers' wages have increased most. It was also necessary to do so, obviously you know, because our ancestors took a month's wages from educators, and the prestige of the teaching field is also served by the higher wages of teachers. It is also important that we have introduced the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship, precisely because of what you said as a problem, on the one hand, that there are areas of shortage, skills that may not be mentioned, but that is also an important tool, an important opportunity, in contrast to drop-out. [[12.20]] So far, two thousand students have participated in the Klebelsberg training scholarship, and this number is rising by 400 a year. This also results in a 30 percent increase in the proportion of teachers who chose the teaching course. And how much attention does one student get elsewhere and how much do we have? You know I told you before. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] : OECD averages 13.6 students to one educator...
u2018-10-24-34	Please, just stop.
u2018-10-24-35	... with us at 10.4, but regardless, reinforcements are an important issue for us. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-36	Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question: what will be next? When do they get their hands on voluntary pension savings? It's an address. Mr. Szabó is in charge. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You've spent about 24 hours on a well-functioning housing savings fund system for 22 years. Unfortunately, this form of savings is not available in the future, to be more precise: there is no state aid. They're doing this in the year of families you've said so many times. In addition to the deeply anti-democratic procedure, the most shocking thing was that all of this was justified by the fact that, in fact, this housing savings fund system is not good for the purposes of home creation, and that housing savings banks produce extra profit. And the reason we had to pull this off so fast is so someone wouldn't accidentally conclude new contracts. Not only new contracts can no longer be concluded, nor can existing contracts be extended. And, of course, we wonder when the government will say that it does not support existing contracts. It is not so far from you, we have seen what happened to private pension funds payments: nearly HUF 3000 billion disappeared in almost a few months. First, they said they were just gonna suspend the membership fee, and then they told people, blackmailing people, that they had to go back into the state system, because there would be no social security. Then they pulled the honey string, saying that everyone would have an individual account, and that everyone would be able to track their salary. Nothing turned out to be anything, and the 3,000 billion disappeared. Since then, of course, there has been all kinds of news about voluntary pension funds. You want to protect this, you want to create a guarantee fund, which you want to create in particular by paying people. Unfortunately, we're starting to wonder who's gonna want this guarantee fund again, if they're gonna take it. So the question arises and I expect a clear answer as to when they want to put their hands on voluntary pension savings. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-38	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2018-10-24-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's make a basis. My basis is that while the MSZP destroyed an otherwise functioning housing support system between 2002 and 2010, Fidesz built this. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Secretary of State, eight years...]] Why do I say that? Listen to him and then yell or talk. I am saying this because the MSZP government imposed restrictions on reasons of unfinancing and injustice, placed foreign exchange-based lending in the spotlight and significantly tightened the forint-based loans from mid-2003 and tightened the leases, limited and reduced them, and then completely abolished them from 2007. [[Interventions from opposition benches, including: Answer me, Mr. Secretary of State.]] In 2009, in the framework of crisis management measures, the government completely abolished the housing support system and promoted foreign exchange lending, 2 million contracts were concluded by Hungarians. [[Intervention from the opposition: Answer the question!]] What was Fidesz supposed to do? The task of the Fidesz government is to save, rescue, transform, eliminate the tragedy that you have caused over a million families with foreign exchange loans. After that, he developed the family home creation discount system and the home creation program, which has now been used by 90,000 families, these Hungarian families have used some HUF 250 billion in government support so far. As far as your alarm about the voluntary pension fund is concerned, I would like to state that the Hungarian government does not want any changes to the voluntary savings scheme, including the voluntary pension scheme. It's a scare. [[Bence of Turda: When will you answer?]] Which, by the way, you MSPs know very well, but nothing else. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-40	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will the unconstitutional restriction of freedom of religion be lifted, the discrimination of the Hungarian Gospel brotherhood? It's an address. That's it. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2018-10-24-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, freedom of religion was abolished seven years ago, a new law on ecclesiastical law was passed, which was criticised, among other things, by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Council, the Venice Commission, which the Constitutional Court declared to be unconstitutional, and which the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg also ruled does not comply with the basic human rights requirements. You have tried to amend the law twice, tightened the conditions and tried to cement the disenfranchise of churches in other ways, but some churches, including the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood, have jumped all obstacles, met all the conditions set before them, and have submitted to the Parliament the proposal on the basis of which the church status should have been approved. However, this did not happen, the Parliament has refused to put this issue on its agenda for four years. It is quite obvious that the Constitutional Court has established a default constitutional violation of Parliament in this case, and I also recall that the Strasbourg human rights court has already awarded a billion forints to the fraternity to compensate for the financial disadvantage resulting from the disenfranchisation. In recent days, the Constitutional Court has once again called the attention of the Parliament to correct and remedy this violation of law and the illegal situation as quickly as possible. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State when freedom of religion will be restored, when the Constitutional Court's decision will be implemented. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: When you regularly hire!]] the elimination of discrimination against the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood and other disenfranchised churches. Are they also coordinating the new bill with the affected disenfranchised churches, or is it again with the Catholic Church? And finally, do you think that the Prime Minister's personal hatred of Gábor Iványi can override the Fundamental Law and our country's commitments to international treaties? Thank you very much.
u2018-10-24-42	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to be answered by State Secretary Miklós Soltész. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2018-10-24-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman! However, there is always a charm when communists call us to account for church law and the churches. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] However, I would like to tell you that the Venice Commission, which you have loved, which has dictated what you have to write, has also been described in a painful way in addition to the criticisms, I must say that they provide a liberal and generous framework for religious freedom in Hungary. So what you've said is a little interesting, compared to what the Venice Commission has to say. By the way, you know as well as I do that as many churches as 32 in Hungary are not anywhere in Europe. And you know that before 2010, as a secretary of state, there were so many churches, most of which worked as a business church, and they abused the money and subsidies they received illegally, but you let them do so. If you are so concerned about a certain church, I ask you, Ferenc Gyurcsány, your party president, when it was possible why you did not vote for that amendment of two-thirds legislation. [[Gergely Harvesto: Because it was also a looter, that's why!]] which we have submitted to the previous Parliament and everyone has accepted. And by the way, just so everyone knows who you want to know in the 32 established churches: an ex-SZDSZ representative, a man who, by the way, is a good friend of George Soros and offered George Soros a Nobel Peace Prize. By the way, they want to put a man among the established churches who calls George Soros generous and philanthropic, who has ruined hundreds of millions of people's lives with his business. That's the kind of person you want to support. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: When did he baptize Orbán's son?]] who said about a symbol of the Hungarians, the Turulbird, that he had a flat-eyed laying wing [[Lajos Korózs: That's very good! The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And he calls the whole Hungarians guilty. This is the church leader you want anyway. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: But he baptized Orbán's son!]] to be classified as one of the churches. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask his Minister for Innovation and Technology, who pays for Paks decommissioning? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.30]]
u2018-10-24-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, As I'm sure you're aware, not only does it cost a lot of money to build a nuclear power plant, but it also costs a lot of money to break it down. In a decade and a half, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will have to start decommissioning the spent reactor blocks. The Lévai András Energy Foundation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences gave an estimate of the costs of handling and storing high-activity radioactive waste during the process of 1000 billion! The inevitable expenditure must be covered by the relevant Hungarian laws by the sale of the electricity produced there during the operation of the nuclear power plant. Atomic pennies built into the price of Paks electricity have been collected in the Nuclear Fund for barely 280 billion forints during 30 years of operation. It is hard to imagine that, in the 16-18 years remaining until closure, the necessary and missing hundreds of billions could be collected without a significant increase in electricity prices. How does the Orbán government intend to comply with its legal obligation? So please explain exactly what the government expects to do with the exit schedule, where the money will come from. Are the payments of the power plant significantly increased, i.e. the price of electricity, or in breach of Hungarian and EU legislation, illegally charged to taxpayers to keep the price of the Paks nuclear power low? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2018-10-24-46	Thank you very much. Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, answers the Member's question. Here.
u2018-10-24-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, According to the provisions of the Nuclear Power Act, nuclear energy users whose activities generate radioactive waste or spent fuel are obliged to bear the costs of their management and, in the case of nuclear installations, the decommissioning costs. According to the provisions of the nuclear law, the Central Nuclear Financial Fund also finances the decommissioning of the nuclear installation in addition to the final disposal of radioactive waste, the temporary storage of spent fuel and the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle. The Fund's funds can only be used to finance these activities. Paks Nuclear Power Plant Zrt. has to make an evenly distributed payment to the fund annually in order to ensure the coverage of the above tasks. The amount of the payment shall be determined in such a way as to cover fully the costs incurred during the entire operational period of the nuclear power plant and the final disposal of radioactive waste from decommissioning, the temporary storage of spent fuel and the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle. The annual rate of payment of the nuclear power plant shall be determined by the Central Budget Act. I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that the Government has adopted a national programme for the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. This programme shall include the planned timetable for decommissioning of nuclear installations and shall also provide information on the financing of activities related to the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The national programme is public, freely available on the government website. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-48	Thank you very much. Member Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: Congressman, please.
u2018-10-24-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A month ago, I asked you a written question about the new flight departure procedures that were put in place on 16 August 2018. In your response, you say that, when using the new trail, compared to the use of the previous trail, measurements show that there is less noise and emissions from the earth's surface. Well, Mr. Secretary, according to the facts that come to me and that can be seen on the ground, this is simply not the case. It's enough to visit a few social networking sites so you can face the scale of the problem. For many years, noise has made life miserable for the people living in the air corridors of the airport, but thanks to the new trails, this unwanted pollution now makes it impossible for the people of Kőbánya to have plenty of peace and quiet life. That is why I find it extremely cynical in their response that since there is no new runway, so to speak, there is no need to re-align a protection zone, because although it is true that a new course has not been established, with the relocation of the air corridor, the air traffic has shifted over the areas of Kőbánya Ohegy and New Hill. You drew Hungary's air traffic map with a pen stroke. The people who live here are right to be outraged that they've been treated so badly. By the way, the environmental pollution caused by the airport, especially the noise, is not only caused by the inhabitants of the immediate area, the problem affects hundreds of thousands of people overall. And if you have already talked about noise load tests carried out by an independent expert in your previous reply and tests carried out by the relevant professional organisations, I would like to ask that these substances be made public. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and discuss it within a forum. So I ask you, what do you intend to do? Thank you.
u2018-10-24-50	Thank you very much. Once again, the Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Congressman, you do not seem to want to understand the circumstances surrounding the operation of the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport or knowingly deceive your constituents, the voters. In both cases, you put the people you want to represent in an unworthy position. You know very well that noise associated with the operation of the airport is, unfortunately, a factor that inevitably puts pressure on the people around the airport. Unfortunately, there is now almost no coherent uninhabited zone that would allow aircraft to approach or leave the runways of the airport throughout an uninhabited or rarely populated area. According to the measurements, the air traffic noise reduction procedures are sufficient to meet the noise limits, but they cannot be guaranteed with the greatest goodwill. Air transport professional organisations shall endeavour to ensure that the noise burden is limited to as few inhabitants as possible. When determining the routes, citizens of each municipality are equal to each other, the professional plans take into account all the population concerned without any other distinction. The new regulation, which entered into force on 16 August 2018, which was required to comply with an EU regulation, has made clear progress in aviation safety, smoothness and environmental aspects for the population living in the area of the airport as a whole, for the hundreds of thousands of people you referred to. According to the studies, the new take-off procedures have resulted in a positive overall change in noise load in the areas concerned. The number of districts affected by noise in Budapest has clearly decreased according to measurements. However, air transport professional organisations have, of course, continued to be open to further dialogue, as has been the case so far. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2018-10-24-53	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Our strong goal in Fidesz-KDNP is to ensure full life opportunities for all people with disabilities, including improving employment opportunities and ensuring concrete work. Therefore, we have decided to provide additional support to accredited employers using people with disabilities. Compared to this year's increase in funding, HUF 39.5 billion could be applied for in 2018. More than 350 accredited companies across the country employ about 30 thousand people with disabilities, and I would like to increase this number further. Thanks to the economic growth of recent years, there is a shortage of labour, and it is therefore important to find those who can be involved in employment. Such a reserve can also be provided for those who have changed their ability to work. It should be pointed out that the government always supports a programme that helps people with disabilities live independently, so that they can become the fullest and most useful members of society and do valuable, useful work. [[12.40]] In addition, it should be pointed out that no social contribution is required for workers with an employment rehabilitation card. Dear Secretary of State, What are the experiences of measures and grants to promote the employment of people with disabilities? What additional measures will help the employment of people with disabilities? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-24-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here.
u2018-10-24-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Additional government resources also resulted in additional results. You yourself pointed out that the employment rate of people with disabilities has increased, now 40 percent, which means that four out of ten people with disabilities can work, not only because of spontaneous market processes, but mainly because of a rehabilitation card, increased subsidies for government measures that helped this. In 2012, we changed the system of supported employment, and since then it has been possible to help people with disabilities to live a full life through accredited employers or developmental employment. In 19th, in the next year's budget, we have already accepted 42 billion HUF as a support for rehabilitation employment as many times as possible. This is not only for the purpose of spending their time as useful as possible so that they can really feel useful as a member of the community, but also for the purpose of increasing their incomes, so we have raised this income limit to 150 percent of the minimum wage, together with the various benefits. On the other hand, we are obviously also giving this extra allowance to the employer because, as a rule, he has a slightly additional task with the employment of the disabled. This kind of extra cost is compensated by the State to encourage employers to employ a changed workforce as much as possible. If I look at an increase in the number of employers since the legislative change I mentioned in the number 12, then 3217 was such an employer, now 9125, and 2.8 times the number of employers involved in the programme. The number of people employed is even higher, rising from 5547 to 37 245, which means that the number of participants increased 6.7-fold. That's a success, that's what we want to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-56	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Rig, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: How long will the government assist in destroying Hungarian society by the drastic spread of designer drugs? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Just a year ago, I initiated a five-party discussion on the spread of designer drugs, which you unfortunately did not come to, although the greatest representative of the profession, Dr. Gábor Zacher, also appeared at this meeting and tried to help us with his expertise. We forgive you, you must have had more serious things to do, I think you've been working on an attack or a fight against Brussels. Secretary of State, can you see past Soros and the migrants? Are you aware that these killer drugs are the greatest threat to Hungarian people? Do you know that the lives of many more Hungarian families are bitterly affected by these drugs than the total number of migrants you have seen? Allow me to quote from the letter from Zoltán Dobó, Mayor of Tapolca, which can be taken as a final cry for help in the name of several city leaders:, I am looking for you with a problem, Congressman, which is not only the problem of Tapolca, but is present in almost every settlement in the country. In our city, serious anti-communicative behaviour of drug users in public areas has become unsustainable and unmanageable due to the emergence of designer drugs. The situation is serious, because we don't know the effect of these psychoactive drugs. Young lives are being destroyed in front of our eyes, and the children of the poorest families are the ones most affected. I ask you to examine the Australian model, where it is not the illicit substances that are listed, but those mind-alterers that may be alcohol, medicinal products that are permitted. I would also ask you to propose with the involvement of experts a more stringent procedure against distributors, since these dealers are flooding our settlements without any sanctions or consequences. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, it's been a year since I first tried to talk to you. This one year has taken a lot of lives, families have been destroyed. The time has finally come for action. Please do not look at an opposition representative submitting the proposal. Are you willing to cooperate with us on this? Thank you for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-24-58	Thank you very much. Once again, Secretary of State Rétvári responds. Here.
u2018-10-24-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Drug abuse is subject to the strictest criminal code in Europe with the strictest possible sanctions in Hungary. When this debate was being held here in Parliament, it should have been brave and supported the very strict, even in Europe, strict rules adopted here by the House, the Fidesz-KDNP majority, because we also believe that this is one of the greatest threats to young people. I would not be relativising what you have ironically tried to do with jokes that migration and immigration are not a threat to Hungarian young people and Hungary; it is also an important threat, but what you have mentioned is also the most important one to take action against designer drugs. We have completely transformed it, made it more flexible than any other European country, made the Hungarian criminal law regulation more responsive, since it is no longer required to be listed in the criminal code, it is not included in a government decree, it is included in a ministerial decree, it was the so-called C-list, the list where new psychoactive substances appear. This is now the fastest way in Europe to respond to drugs being placed on the market. This is obviously a crazy competition between the drug labs and the government, but the reason why the police have a much more effective tool in this is because now we can punish the standard formulas of designer drugs, i.e. the basic components, compared to which if one or another component changes, it can be punished in the same way. It is also very important for us to raise awareness. For this reason, we have allocated HUF 6 billion in additional development resources for children's and youth psychiatric, addictology, mental health and care, and we are spending HUF 3 billion on prevention programs, for social assistance activities in kindergarten and school, which can also help HUF 2 billion, and HUF 2.5 billion in prevention and control programmes, precisely in order to repress designer drugs, so their share of drugs has dropped from 70 percent to 35 percent, but this has to be continued. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-60	Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: what is the fate of HUF 6.3 billion, originally intended for Elizabeth's vouchers? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-61	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is well known to everyone that last week we started to negotiate last year's closing account as a presentation, and the reasons for the 2017 closing account include the following sentence:. The original unplanned HUF 6.3 billion resulting from the reimbursement of the unused part of the budget allocated to pensioners for the Erzsébet vouchers on Christmas 2016. On the basis of this, it should be borne in mind that some 630 thousand pensioners did not receive Elizabeth's voucher. That is why I would like to clarify this situation here within the walls of this House. Mr. Secretary, how could such a large sum of HUF 6.3 billion have been made? Does the question arise: has the situation been assessed so vaguely, or has so many not used this support? In particular, how many people received Elizabeth's vouchers on this column in the Christmas of last year and in the Christmas of the previous year? How many claimants didn't take your Elizabeth voucher? What were the forms of supply in which Elizabeth's voucher was most rejected or not used? In addition, I would like to ask you how many Elizabeth vouchers have been sent abroad and how much money the amount of Elizabeth vouchers sent abroad has cost. I would, of course, like to highlight the costs of mailing. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-10-24-62	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2018-10-24-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Erzsébet's vouchers have, of course, been received by all the right holders, we are talking about 2 658 550 people, who were entitled to the 10,000 HUF Erzsébet voucher, and to whom the state sent it through the post office. If of these 2,658, 550 people mentioned in your question, 630,000 people had not received the Elisabeth certificate, you would not have been informed of it from the closing accounting law, but would obviously have suffered a mass complaint. In the case of everyone, we tried to deliver several times, even if someone didn't take over, we also sent him the Erzsébet voucher upon request. It was possible that someone hadn't been home for weeks, couldn't take this. [[12.50]] Overall, if we look at the amount of additional benefits paid to pensioners in recent years, we can see that between November 2016 and March 2018 we paid HUF 129 billion for Elizabeth vouchers and pension premium. And again this year, we are expected to spend HUF 41,3 billion on a pension premium. In previous years, there have been similar high numbers of additional benefits to pensioners. Erzsébet's vouchers totalled HUF 81 billion for pensioners, the pension premium was HUF 24 billion, and the pension supplement was HUF 24 billion in 2017. We were able to give you these extras. We can remember that before 2010, we did not talk about surpluses, but about retirement, taking away a month's pension. It has been enforced against each pensioner by your government; you have also served in that government, honourable Member. Now, however, we can talk about how many tens and hundreds of billions more we can use to provide pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-64	Thank you very much. Member László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is this optimism, Minister of State? It's an address. But this Secretary of State is not the Secretary of State, because on behalf of the Prime Minister, László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, who is responsible for the subject, would answer the question, but he is not the State Secretary, but Péter Cseresnyés in his image. I'm glad to be able to give you a summary of the fact that Secretary Cseresnyés will tell you what he wants. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-65	Thank you so much for your help. We really need guidance today, because the conceptual confusion that the government is involved in, and all its members are communists here this morning, may be left behind in this answer, even because I have to speak primarily for the sake of parents here. First of all, I would like to ask you not to do any more harm, but rather to create an opportunity for our children. Almost a full class was flunked in a high school in Újpest. Students and parents... for almost three years there was practically no useful education. Even though the parents struggled and reported the problem to the school leadership, the last-minute measures on the part of the school could no longer be effective. How could this situation have developed? In particular, it is the history of the 3/11.H Experimental class of the Újpest Two Teaching Language Technical High School, where students barely received textbooks for their training. In the second and third years, two teaching days and three practical education days were planned for their three-year training. The curriculum has not been given so much that the students have not been able to perform almost any tasks in practical classes, because what they have given is called cynically teaching material only, it has not been related to the profession, and it has not been enough to comply with the exam. It is no wonder that only eight students in the 27th class were certified. The others lost their chance, no exams, no graduations. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you what conclusions have been drawn for the future, because from your earlier written reply, it seems nothing. Why does the ministry you run assist children to come out after three years of education without learning anything? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-10-24-66	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-67	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In answer to your question, it is appropriate to repeat it orally, as has been said, that question has already been asked in writing of the facts already recorded in writing. The class you referred to was not an experimental class. The curriculum to be learned was based on the framework curriculum introduced in 2013 and the school was able to prepare for it by 2015. The proportion of theoretical and practical studies, i.e. 700 hours of theoretical and 1600 hours of practical training, is a characteristic of vocational training as a whole. The learning materials were equally accessible to all students, not only in the school library, but also on an electronic interface. You asked what was happening at the Újpest Two Teaching Language Technical High School and Secondary School. For example, in the 2017-18 academic year, only 4 percent of the 1247 students who started their studies there, 54 students had to pass the repair exams, and in the field of professional exam results the institution performs outstandingly, 95 percent of the successful students. It is no wonder that the Újpest Two Teaching Language in Budapest is the 20th best high school and the second best secondary school in Budapest, according to the ranking you quoted. On this basis, I would ask the Member to refrain from discrediting students in the institution, from embarrassing teachers who work there, and from violating the school's reputation in the future. You wanted to draw conclusions at the end. I'll do that if I can. Over and over again, Mr President, you are questioning the facts by twisting certain areas, but that does not mean that the progress and progress that this government has made since 2010 cannot be denied, no matter how much you try to slip and often lie, DKs. The consistent outcome of three parliamentary elections shows this. It can convince you and convince you that the Hungarian people cannot be misled by the slippages that you are doing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-68	Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: "Does the portfolio plan to transform the social firewood programme? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Although we have been happy this year that autumn has brought us warmth for a long time, we know that this is exactly the time to prepare for winter. It is a time of preparation for the winter, which is expected to bring many people not joy, but cold, energy poverty, because there is nothing to heat. Nothing can prove this better than that this year 2320 settlements, 74 percent of all domestic settlements have applied for a social fuel application. That's because settlements over 5,000 people couldn't even apply. Yet poverty is not confined to the size of a settlement, and the other criteria are flawed. The amount of fuel awarded is determined on the basis of the number of public workers and the number of people over the age of 80, as if there were not many families in need of one person or many children who heat with wood or coal. And the distribution is unacceptablely disproportionate, regardless of the need, that some people receive less than 3 thousand forints, and some people receive 63 thousand forints for a year. The LMP has been urging for years to raise the framework, set quality requirements for fuel, ensure that people in need receive fuel already in November and for at least two winter months, as well as support for modern heaters and insulation so as not to heat the sky. Mr. Secretary. Don't you think we should finally renew the system according to the needs of the needy? Do you also think that instead of developing, the housing savings fund that provides self-care to hundreds of thousands should be abolished? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-10-24-70	Thank you very much. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here. [[Tibor Scone's mic doesn't work.]] We need a microphone for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-71	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The question raised by the Member contains a number of inaccuracies. The social support system, I think, should be known to everyone. Support for housing and social support for housing are the responsibility of the municipalities. This was also the case in 2011, when the so-called social firewood programme was launched, which was launched because some families in crisis were unable to support or were unable to find the opportunities to provide support. In order to provide additional resources to those in crisis situations, the government launched the so-called social firewood programme. [[13.00]] However, I must point out here, honourable Member, that the government provides the municipalities with a financial framework, and that the municipalities decide on the basis of which principles the aid is distributed. Local governments decide what kind of support is granted to each family according to their social situation. Of course, the condition for the application is that the municipalities have a social regulation and divide the aid on the basis of the social regulation, on the basis of a transparent system. In addition to the social firewood framework, local governments manage some HUF 36 billion of budget resources in the social assistance system, and municipalities that consider that they cannot perform social tasks in their settlements can apply for additional social operating support. I would like to indicate here that an average bid of between 150 and 200 per year is received, and we can support these municipalities separately. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-72	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "What does the government do for poor children? It's an address. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. According to a report published last week by the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, one in three children lives in poverty or social exclusion in Hungary. The situation is worse than that in Greece, Romania and Bulgaria. Here's another piece of evidence that government propaganda is useless when it comes to facts. Even though they play with statistics, despite tightening the eligibility criteria to reduce the number of people in need by a pen stroke, our country is still among the drivers.50,000 children are regularly starving, 170,000 live in flats where there are no toilets, tens of thousands of people fall out of school benches without a degree, because you delivered the age limit of compulsory education for 16 years, supporting child labor and the exploitation of children. Not all children have access to quality education, a quarter remain functional illiterate, inadequate health care for children, especially for vulnerable people and people with disabilities. The report clearly states that support for families has not increased by as much as the cost of living. The more children you have today, the greater your chances of becoming poor. And there is one other thing that we cannot go without saying: an operational programme to support the needy, aimed precisely at helping poor families and especially poor children with food packages and other benefits in kind. It is not enough that the project started with two years' delay, and before the elections, the government distributed food as part of the Fidesz campaign, now giving 11 billion to the girlfriend of Tímea Vajna and other entrepreneurs near Fidesz. The Fidesz slepp will discuss the success of the European Anti-Fraud Office's programme, so there will be a free lunch, just not for the poor. The Fidesz government humiliates poor families on a daily basis and takes away the possibility of ascension from their children. Since 2010, the family allowance has not increased by a penny, and I could continue the line. Taking into account the EU's recent report, please answer the following questions. What will the government do to reduce child poverty, extend children's meals to weekends? What is the solution to the housing crisis for people living in segregational settlements? Is there a debate about basic income instead of communism? Why is the EU only investigating the theft of Hungarian poor money in the case of RSZTOP? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2018-10-24-74	Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, will answer your question. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are not aware of such fundamental facts, honourable Member, that I was surprised at this myself, when you spilt it quickly here. You say we spend 11 billion forints from the RSZTOP for conferences. Basically, the design, the operational programme, is that it cannot be used for anything but food. Even in connection with the dedication of food, it cannot be spent on wages. You're confusing the season with the guy, Mr. Congressman. From this we bought services to those in need, homeless people, large families, poor elderly people, who have changed their working skills, 170,000 people have been able to benefit from this every year. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The second is how many children are in difficulty based on international data. Of course, both you and I, I hope, both of us believe that as long as there is one child in a difficult situation, we have a job to do. However, it is worth looking at the trend of what happened in Hungary after 10-12. According to Eurostat data, the greatest improvement was in child poverty between 2012 and 2017. Among those under the age of 18, I quote from Eurostat, honourable Member, relative income poverty has fallen from 23,8 percent to 14,8 percent. Of course, there's a lot of 14.8 percent, only the 23,8 percent was much higher. If we had chosen your path, this would have increased; fortunately, it was reduced. If I look at the entire population, not only children, serious material deprivation, also on the basis of Eurostat, because you love these international statements, the number and proportion of people seriously at risk of poverty or material deprivation decreased by 1.3 million between 12 and 17 people. The proportion of people living in extreme poverty also decreased by 375 thousand for your benefit. So, thank God, there were positive trends in this, and this was mainly based on job creation and the tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-76	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-24-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In September 2016, the government approved a HUF 2500 billion road development programme, which will allow 81 main roads to be renewed by 2022 and a new four-track road and motorway to be completed. The main aim of the programme is to ensure that all motorways of Hungary reach the border of the country and that cities with county rights are connected to motorways. This means that high-level road connections will be provided to county seats that do not yet have such quality routes. The cities concerned include Eger, Kaposvár, Salgótarján, Békéscsaba, Szolnok, Sopron and Zalaegerszeg. Thanks to the construction of motorways and highways, tourist destinations will be more quickly and safely accessible, and regions with high industrial performance with economic potential will be connected. This will increase tourism and the economy even more effectively in the regions concerned. The residents of Békés County have long been waiting for such an important road development, with great interest and joy, since the county seat and its catchment area, situated 20 kilometres from the border of the country, 210 km from the capital city, never had such a modern, built road network. I ask Mr. Secretary of State the stage in which the M44 road is being completed, when the people of Békés County can use the road, what road improvements are expected in Békés County. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-10-24-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The section of the M44 motorway between Kecskemét-Békéscsaba is included in the Government Decision on the coordination and implementation of infrastructure investments related to Hungary's short- and medium-term road development until 2022. The 62 km long part between Tiszakürt-Kondoros is under construction. It is planned that in the autumn of 2019 motorists can take possession of this section, which is currently the most critical part of the M44 in terms of traffic. The contractors are also working on the 18 km long section between Kondoros-Békéscsaba, with the deadline for the end of the second quarter of 2021. The preparation of the third section, which is nearly 15 kilometres long, is also underway. This section will link the highway from the Szentkirály region to the construction section from Tiszamürt. The works are expected to start here even this year. There is also preparation in the area of Békéscsaba for the implementation of the fürjes road. To sum up: In the second half of 2022 we will give the four-track expressway to road users for a total length of nearly 95 kilometres, thanks to which the Viharsar region will also have a high service connection. The development of the road provides an additional economic development opportunity for the region, and getting to the capital and other parts of the country will become faster, more comfortable and safer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.10]]
u2018-10-24-80	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm indicated from the Jobbik Group that she does not wish to discuss her question today. Dear Parliament, Member Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology: When will the garbage be removed? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Molnár has the floor.
u2018-10-24-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I could start by saying that something stinks, but not in Denmark, but in our cities, and I don't think it's in the neighborhood where the Secretary of State or your Fidesz potenta might live. We are getting the signal from more and more places, especially in my own constituency, Budafok, Tétény and Newbuda, that there is virtually no transport of selective waste for weeks, and there is also a problem with other shipments of waste. If you have seen it, an article appeared today that 116 settlements may have problems in the next few days, because one of the waste management companies has not received their money and is ready to take the most serious and toughest steps on this. You created the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. in 2016. A real success story, a real NER success story: in two years we managed to generate a loss of 20 billion; the IT software developed for 1 billion still does not work; recovery had to be outsourced; and, as we hear, this Waste Management and Co-ordinate Zrt. is lining up for additional loans. So the real question is, and I have once asked your colleague, Secretary of State, on an educational matter, whether this is not the moment, Mr. Secretary, that perhaps we should stop going into the woods, but should stop and turn back. This concept, this construction failed, this construction does not work. Maybe we should give it back to the municipal authorities, and the money they're spending to maintain this otherwise inoperative system, maybe we should really use it to transport garbage. So, my questions, Mr. Secretary. When is this thing gonna end? Are you planning to liquidate NHKV Zrt.? Who is responsible for this loss? Thank you very much.
u2018-10-24-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés, who will answer the question.
u2018-10-24-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to draw your attention to the untruths that you have just made, that the slide, however many times you repeat it, remains a slippery one. [[Intercoms and noise from the benches of the MSZP.]] At the same time, I ask you once again to give up the mood and alarm for political gain, as it is a fact that since the emergence of state coordination, the development of the technical infrastructure of the public service has been ongoing, and the collection of selective waste is evolving in line with the EU's objectives. In 2015, we introduced mandatory waste collection, and the existing landfills meet the strict EU requirements and the requirements of modernity. National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. the public service operating costs of the public services shall be paid after the service providers have fulfilled their reporting obligations. NHKV Zrt. coordination and close cooperation with public service providers have ensured and ensure the conditions for the continued operation of the waste management public service. The company pays particular attention to the provision of priority areas. NHKV Zrt. It is also capable of what your government, at all, left-wing governments have not even attempted in eight years: it can keep it low... [[Sándor Szabó's intervention:]] Listen, Congressman. the public's share of the costs of waste management processes that become more complex and more extensive. There has been a significant reduction in the burden of the population in this area, which you have not done, but have constantly raised prices in all areas. Citizens in this system are also not affected [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] or any other disadvantage. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Lajos Korózs: Your eyes reach the waist! Péter Cseresnyés: You are short, that's why! Zsolt Gréczy: The Dumpster has been there for two weeks! Two weeks!]]
u2018-10-24-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Congressman Imre László, representative of the Democratic Coalition, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Anarchy and chaos? Only in hospitals or anywhere else? It's an address. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In the opposition!]] Congressman Imre László has the floor.
u2018-10-24-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, ran violently against hospitals in the summer: anarchy, chaos, scandal described the management of hospitals, buying without public procurement, no credible inventory, and the accounts are opaque. This may happen in some hospitals, although it is also true that these reprehensible conclusions have been drawn from the examination of only a dozen of the hundreds of hospitals. The hospitals have been nationalized for six years, and the State Health Services Center, in your opinion, is constantly monitoring the management of health institutions. Compared to this, the SAO report has not been able to say much about the responsibility of this supervisory body, which not only missed the shortcomings which the SAO President has suffered, but also manages the purchases of greater value through centralised public procurement. However, for its irregularities, the Hungarian Competition Authority has repeatedly imposed fines of tens of millions on this organisation. In contrast to all real data, health care is not underfunded by the government, thus justifying the introduction of a system similar to the university chancellor system. I ask you, Secretary of State, is centralization followed by super-centralization? Have the responsibilities of the State Health Care Center been seriously examined, and what conclusions have they reached? Isn't it just a predicament that, due to the run-away budget deficit, they're now trying to extract new funds from this underfunded sector? I look forward to your reply with respect. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-24-86	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The opposition's attitude towards the State Audit Office is interesting, since when the State Audit Office investigates the management of parties, it is said that this is an unprofessional and politically motivated inquiry. [[Gergely Harvesto: According to the facts...]] when the State Audit Office reveals shortcomings in hospitals, and here in Parliament it is praised for the good work done by the State Audit Office, how well it reveals the shortcomings in the management of certain institutions. It would be good for you to try to perpetuate your position a little, at least a year or two, by the opposition, and not by changing from case to case whether the State Audit Office now decides on a professional or political basis in your opinion. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] In both cases, we believe that the study was carried out on a professional basis, and we would also like to make use of the results of this in the field of health. We regard health as a public service, as a public service, and therefore we are completely opposed to the ideology that existed before 2010, which also tried to treat this as a business on a market basis, and which is profitable, even if it reduces health costs, and in 2003-2010 only the OECD countries have reduced health expenditure in Hungary, and since then the seventh largest increase since then. Today we spend HUF 647 billion more on health care than in 2010. The amount of the Health Insurance Fund is no longer HUF 1476 billion, but HUF 2319 billion, and a lot of rural development has also taken place. Honourable Congressman, Our studies are comprehensive, we try to examine hospitals with poor management indicators and hospitals with good management indicators, and to determine the difference between the two farming models: what led to a large shortage of hospitals, and what measures were needed in a well-functioning hospital to ensure good management of the hospital? We will analyse these and present these action plans to everyone within months. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-24-88	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: what are they doing to eliminate noise pollution that could harm airport health? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[13.20]]
u2018-10-24-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, So far, the environmental load and noise pollution of Budapest's 17th, X. and XIV. In certain parts of the district, but since mid-August, the take-off directions of the airport have been changed. Thus, hundreds of aircraft fly through the XVIII daily. And over the quiet parts of District X so far. This is how the Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital, several housing sites, schools and kindergartens were affected in the stone mine. The residents and the local authorities concerned have long run out of patience, because the foreign operators of the airport have been engaged in practices that have been far below irregular international standards and domestic regulations for many years, causing permanent damage to people and their homes, in order to increase their unscrupulous use. The multitude of long-term lawsuits in environmental and health aspects, the indifference of wallets and authorities involved in legislation and enforcement, and the playing of time delay, only makes the already serious situation worse. Moreover, the airport is rapidly expanding its traffic. Passenger traffic is now 15 million instead of the previous 10 million, and freight transport is increasing steadily. Many of the affected residents are struggling with constant stress, health problems, it is not uncommon that the effects of machines break down the roofs of family homes, the sale of real estate, it is impossible to replace them, they lose their value, and very serious pollution and damage to health occur in the region. So we need a solution that does not always lead the problem elsewhere, but that provides a complex solution, sustainable and eliminates environmental damage and health noise in all areas. Mr. Secretary, whose interest does the agricultural purse represent? Foreign operators or hundreds of thousands of Hungarian residents? Are you willing to develop a complex solution, in cooperation with the innovation wallet, to reduce noise and vibration loads in all the settlements concerned at the same time instead of herding them back and forth? Do you, along with the other wallet, support the banning of take-off and take-off during deep sleep? Or will they create a fund to compensate residents and reduce environmental damage? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-10-24-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question.
u2018-10-24-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is the third time in the last ten days that the same topic has been raised. This has already been said on one occasion in connection with the Liszt Ferenc International Airport. It must be said that this airport was established almost 70 years ago before the establishment of a legal environment to protect the environment. Thus, it was not possible to take preventive environmental measures at the time, the environment of the airport has been integrated over the decades, and air traffic has increased. These are facts. As a result, the specific situation of the airport has developed today, with a significant reduction in the range of possible measures to achieve substantial noise reduction. Therefore, the professional organisations of air transport seek to minimise interference from aircraft noise. To this end, the flight routes were modified, as has already been said today, on 16 August 2018. Before the introduction, HungaroControl Zrt. has carried out several public involvement and noise tests in consultation with air navigation professional organisations and authorities. As a congresswoman, the operation of the airport is of particular economic and social importance. It provides thousands of jobs, increases the competitiveness of the country, so its operation serves not only the interests of the operator, but also the interests of the Hungarian state and thus the Hungarian people. The government will continue to make every effort to ensure that the noise burden arising from aviation affects the population around the airport as little as possible, we strive to reduce noise, we seek solutions and I trust that new technologies and technical conditions will all serve this in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-24-92	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, Member of the Parliament of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2018-10-24-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In March, in the heat of the election campaign, Károly Kontra, re-elected parliamentary representative of my constituency since then [[Péter Cseresnyés: It's authentic, that's why!]] promised the people living in the landfill area of Királyszentistván to solve the problem, to close the plant. For years, people living in the area of Királyszentistván, Papkeszi, Balatonfűzfő and Literature have complained about the insufferable smell of the colony. Several times they have turned to the authorities, to the congressman, to the government, and so far, it seems to have been unsuccessful. The landfill has been working ever since, making the lives of the people in the area miserable. The few de minimis fines imposed did not seem to discourage the operator. In the spring, Balázs Weingartner himself, who has been your secretary of state since then, was still the CEO of the disputable national kukaholding, promised to close the settlement by letter. Strangely enough, however, this letter was received only by the two Fidesz MP candidates concerned, who did not hesitate to publish it on their social media site as a victory report. The flaw in beauty is that it has been six months since then, but it seems that in the knowledge of the extra votes received in the election, the people concerned have forgotten their promise. I dare not think that the promise to close the landfill would have been a lie, and they wouldn't have taken it seriously at the moment the letter was born. One thing is certain: the local people are right to expect the solution to be more and more impatient. Dear Secretary of State, What are you waiting for? Will this election promise be fulfilled, or will it just be another one of those ducks from the air? Something stinks, not only on King's Holiness, but also on you. But the situation is getting tense. Confess or be silent, but bear the consequences of your scam. Because the day is not far from when people will exercise their rights under the law, and they will take the matter into their own hands, even at the cost of civil disobedience. Is that what you want? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-10-24-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question.
u2018-10-24-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your question and the way it's supposed to be is another proof of how lightly you deal with professionalism and responsibility. You imagine that a landfill can be eliminated by a pen stroke, and that waste and public services will take care of themselves. [[György Szilágyi: You promised!]] The reality, Congressman, as much as it bothers you, is that the government is acting on this issue as we have been accustomed to in the last eight years: I am slowly saying that its commitment is being implemented with consistent but responsible measures in the interest of the people. You are simply not telling the truth when you claim that nothing has happened in the case of the landfill in Királyszentistván. NHKV Zrt. started preparing for the closure, examining where and in what form the landfill activity in question could be triggered. At the same time, EU projects involving landfills have been reorganised in order to make use of resources with sufficient efficiency. Instead of further upgrading the landfill, we have planned a transfer station for the disposal of waste. Honourable Congressman, As we are aware of the time and complexity of such a change, we have started not only long-term work to improve the situation, but also short-term bridging measures to deal with complaints from the general public. A number of new procedures are introduced in the ditch in Királyszentistván, which reduces odor effects due to waste management. Mr President, to sum up my reply, the work is being carried out in the case of the landfill in Királyszentistván, after reducing the weight of the problem, the residents can count on a reassuring solution to it. And I'm asking you not to try to scare people in and out of the neighborhood, preferably by slipping. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-10-24-96	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2018-10-24-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Health care has been loud in Budapest and in several rural cities over the last few months from scandals, firings, mass terminations. The latest example: in recent days, it was discovered that the workers of the pay and labour department of the hospital in his lips could not stand the atmosphere of the hospital, and they all left outside the head of the department. These examples show well the problems associated with the health care system. The state refuses to pay adequate wages to health care workers, it only raises a little every year, but this cannot stop doctors from leaving or quitting. [[13.30]] We have now come to the point that doctors and nurses make more money in Romania than in Hungary. They realized that only an immediate and substantial increase in wages would help to halt the exodus of doctors. This was not only discovered by our eastern neighbour, but also by the north, since the wages of health care workers in Slovakia have been higher than those which the Orbán government considers fair in Hungary for many years. In fact, as you can rightly imagine, the health government expects hospitals to be overpaid, or doctors who are not necessarily close to the heart of the health government, to fire them, or to put them in a position to quit on their own. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what they are doing to replace doctors who have been fired or forced to leave. What are they doing to keep the nurses from leaving or going abroad? What are they doing to ensure that health professionals can finally get better wages? Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State.
u2018-10-24-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-99	Thank you very much for the floor. This is why socialist MEPs have the nerve to make such speeches in Parliament. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're talking about a lady.]] You demand higher wages for healthcare workers when your government has reduced the wages of all Hungarian doctors and all Hungarian nurses. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! Zsolt Gréczy: Lies!]] They took a month's wages from all Hungarian doctors and nurses, then a few years later, hoping that people had forgotten that, you stand up and tell us [[Dr. Zita Gurmai: Answer the question, Mr. Secretary of State.]] How little is it that the government will double the wages of the nurses between 2012 and 2019, but you think that's not enough. We think it should be further increased, but I would accept this criticism not from the one who reduced the wages of the nurses, but from the one who might have done something about it. And he says that it is not enough that the gross basic salary of doctors has increased by HUF 207,000 in two years, of which we would be happy, of course, and we hope to have the opportunity to increase it even more, but I would not accept the criticism of this from the party that took a month's wages from all Hungarian doctors. And he also took funds from health care, because, as has already been mentioned today, only socialist-led Hungary was the country where health spending fell between 2003 and 2010. In all other countries, all other developed countries have grown, and Hungary alone has decreased; since 2010, the seventh largest increase in health expenditure has been made in terms of the whole range of developed countries. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Then why is everyone running?]] And then a socialist Member stands up and says that they earn little in health care, why they don't earn more. Fortunately, they earn at least that much, and the 100% increase in caregivers between 2012-19, I think it is not small, and medical wage increases are now felt, because there was no socialist government in Hungary. You spoke in your written text about how doctors can be replaced even in GOKI when it was the dismissal of a single doctor. You may know this, but I think it is important to say this, and you will also be able to find information on the website of the Public Health Centre, the AEK, and then you would not say that the Minister has anything to do with the procedures conducted here and their outcome. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What does the government do for Hungary's security? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-24-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You say that the European Union wants to take the gate key away from Hungary, and it is precisely the Hungarian government that handed over the gate key. And who did you give it to? Unfortunately, he turned it over to criminals. Every country has the right to decide who they want to live with and who they don't, that's right. You decided: when the residency bond programme was introduced, you decided to live with criminals and bring these criminals to Hungary. Every week, in the midst of a scandal, we find out that among the 20,000 people who have been rewarded with a lifelong license, they have not undergone any substantive security checks, so countless criminals have been granted residence permits and residence permits in Hungary. You say that immigration should not be supported. Of course it's the right thing to do. However, you are constantly taking action against this: 20,000 people have been allowed into the territory of Hungary and the entire Schengen area, criminals and people of non-defensive intelligence services. Several cases have already been identified to indicate international authorities, but there have been three cases in recent years, which I would like to highlight. For example, the Assad regime's money launderer was granted a lifelong license with a settlement obligation. In addition to several members of the head of Russian intelligence, a Russian businessman who is known for his mafia connections was given one. In Finland, a Russian businessman was arrested for money laundering and tax evasion, who also received a residence permit in Hungary. And, Mr Secretary of State, it is not worth pointing out to other countries, because control is a matter for the Hungarian authorities. The residency bond holders were only admitted because the bond-distributor, off-shore companies linked to government players made HUF 150 billion in this business, with the result that the Hungarian people had unfortunately only lost HUF 30 billion. So, in our opinion, all permits issued with the obligation of establishment should be revoked. My question to the Secretary of State is how many cases have been withdrawn so far and whether all 20,000 licences have been withdrawn. Thank you.
u2018-10-24-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You don't have to worry about Hungary's safety, it's in good hands. However, it is a cause for concern when you are asking questions for political gain or waiting for answers at the Parliament's public meeting, which could only be discussed in closed session. In recent years, the government has already demonstrated that its actions are aimed at guaranteeing the safety of Hungarian people. On the other hand, the congresswoman, using her mandate as a representative, misuses the data obtained when she looks at the file, in the hope of political gain and co-chairship, is making false news of innocent people. You should be aware of the rules on classified information. It is not credible that a representative who uses the data of the soldiers serving in the missions for press purposes and uses it for his own political purposes is concerned about the security of the Hungarian people. You and your party regularly do not vote in favour of law enforcement agencies. You did not vote in 2015 or in 2016 or in 2017 for a salary increase for professional workers for the following year. As far as settlement bonds are concerned, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Interior bodies carrying out the task of controlling the residency bond scheme always act in compliance with the law, in the interests of Hungary. All persons applying for a settlement policy have been screened, only those with no national security risk have been granted, have not been included in an international ban list, have not been included in either NATO or EU lists. The persons or members of their families in respect of whom a safety risk has been identified have been rejected. In accordance with the provisions of the law, information on the person of applicants and their circumstances shall not be provided. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-104	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Transmuting Austrian family support, vulnerable Hungarian workers. What does the Hungarian Government do? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2018-10-24-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In addition to curbing immigration, Jobbik is a socially sensitive national people's party [[Peter Cseresnyés: Oh, my God!]] One of its main policy objectives is to stop emigration, which is slow to a loss of world war. As you have made clear so many times, you refuse to acknowledge this problem. I would like to remind you that it is precisely the unliving and suffocating political-economic climate that you created that forced tens of thousands of Hungarian families to try to thrive abroad. As is known, the Austrian Government has decided to significantly reduce the amount of family support for the children of Hungarian workers working in Austria from 2019. How many Hungarian families are affected by the tightening of the Austrian family support system? I addressed a written question to Minister. I find Mr Minister's reply unacceptable, as he points to Brussels. It points to Brussels in that answer, and it shows me that when it comes not to alarming and looking for an enemy, but to real Hungarian representation, you are completely helpless at European level. [[13.40]] The reason for this is that the Orbán system in Europe seems to have more serious credibility problems every day because of its efforts to reduce the rule of law and freedom of the media and corruption that is all over the world. I would like to remind you that, in an unprecedented way, you are not even willing to join the European Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. How do they expect recognition and partnership in European politics? Jobbik calls on you to take action against the abuse of the interests of the Austrian Hungarians instead of lubricating the problem on Brussels. We look forward to your response on what concrete measures are planned in this respect. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-24-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, With a number of sentences in this speech by the congressman in Brussels, I think you can expect an award for a purring kitty. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: What do you have against kittens?]] He wrote it so nicely that you have to be a good guy in Brussels, and then you'll help us. Well, I don't know, honourable Member, maybe Jobbik, the socially sensitive national people's party, as you have just defined yourself next week, and we'll be waiting for the next definition. [[Péter Cseresnyés: There is one!]] He believes so; we believe in strong national representation, even if it involves conflicts. [[György Szilágyi: Juncker's Boards...]] And then you talked about it. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's why they're going abroad from Hungary. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to work for people because the atmosphere in Hungary is inhumane and suffocating. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] I don't know if you've read this weekend that 72 percent of young people between the ages of 18 and 24 in France say that you would go abroad, move abroad, if you make more money there, climate conditions are better, if you find a more stable political system or new adventures there. I do not know how inhuman and suffocating the atmosphere in France can be if 72 percent of the young people there say so, and I do not know what speech they would have made there. You know, Mr President, that the ratio of permanent workers from Hungary abroad is much lower than in Serbia, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, the Baltic countries [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Now we're calmed down!]] but even lower than the Swiss or Portuguese index. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Or the British!]] And you should be aware of the joyful fact, honourable Member, that, fortunately, the number of emigrants is falling, and the returnees are growing, only 18 500 returned home last year. [[István Szávay: The question was about the Austrian Hungarians!]] So there's a lot more people coming home now than they're leaving. With regard to the Austrian Hungarians, the government stands most firmly. The Hungarian people working in Austria pay the same tax as the Austrians, so they are entitled to the same benefits as the Austrians, this is also an important European requirement for equal treatment, whether they really respect the same legislation. We would have expected a sharper stand from Brussels on other issues, unfortunately not. Hungary will use all possible international instruments [[György Szilágyi: Time! The president's ringing the bell.]] because we find this Austrian practice to be extremely offensive, abnormally offensive and incompatible with EU law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-108	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: the economic policy of Fidesz endangers another two sectors? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2018-10-24-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. We have become accustomed to the fact that, in terms of words, the government is the biggest supporter of the domestic agricultural society, but the reality is very often quite different. Unfortunately, every year we have to talk about buying-in prices, for example, which is a very serious problem for family farms. Although the price of industrial plant products increased by 3.5 percent this year, as far as buying is concerned, this puts a huge burden on the mill and cereal processing industry, as this high price cannot be included in the sales price. But this is not what I want to talk about in the first place, but the situation of fruits, because this is exactly the opposite: there the buying-in price fell by 19 percent, which is a huge drop in comparison to the weak years so far, especially from the low base year 2017. One of the problems here is that industrial multinationals, which are always privileged by you, are sucking the workforce away from domestic agriculture, which is a serious extra burden for fruit producers, and in addition, producers and farmers have not indicated in a variety of cases that there is a deliberate buying-in stop on the part of the purchasers, so they are trying to suppress prices or suspect price cartels in several cases. I am therefore asking the Secretary of State what they are doing, what means are being used to curb this huge volatility in the area of buying-in prices every year. What are they doing to stop talking about the situation of cherry, melon, raspberry, apple, grape and honey people here week after week in Parliament, but to solve this problem permanently? Believe me, Mr Secretary of State, that the Hungarian countryside and agriculture are not just a few families you know, but there are still fair, truly productive, truly working Hungarian family farmers who ask you for nothing but to make a living from their work. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-24-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to stress that, in a market economy, the State has no influence on prices, which are fundamentally shaped by demand and supply. Hungary is an economy open to the world market, so domestic prices for agricultural products are primarily determined by world market processes, whether you like it or not. These price movements cannot be significantly influenced by the Hungarian State as an EU country under market economy conditions. However, I think that you, Congressman, should not forget that every year there are waves in every sector. Last year's cereal prices were extremely low compared to this year's cereal prices, which were not influenced by the Hungarian market and Hungarian agriculture, but by world market trends. In the case of apples, sour cherries and plums, prices have indeed fallen significantly due to favourable domestic and international production and high stocks. In particular, producers and processors are able to mitigate the impact of market processes through long-term contracts rather than when they are hit by the sky and are hit by crops, and to establish long-term conditions that are acceptable to all on the basis of mutual benefit. Unfortunately, producer organisations and cooperation are still lacking in this area, but first of all, starting from the bottom up, producer organisations must be resolved. With the help of the common agricultural policy, the government will reduce price fluctuations through support for agriculture, rural development and preferential loans, with the help of some HUF 500 billion forints of income replacement and market support for farmers. As a result, we can say that in arable crops and fruit production, agricultural subsidies have a revenue ratio of more than 80% from pre-tax results. I can assure the Member that the Government is determined to provide farmers with all the additional conditions for the pursuit and pursuit of their income-producing activities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-112	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. On a point of order, Mr Károly Kontra asked for the floor. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-10-24-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli spoke to me on his oral question, and the House Rules of Decision 20. I would like to respond to this under § (1). Thank you, Mr President, for making this possible. Lajos Kepli falsely claimed that I promised that the landfill in Királyszentistván would be closed, and I was informed of this by the National Waste Management Coordinator and Asset Management Ltd. Chairman and CEO. On the other hand, the truth is that, apart from me, Szabolcs Takács is a government commissioner, Péter Ovádi is a municipal representative, President János Czaun, Mayor Ilona Kőszegi, Királyszentistván [[Zoltán Magyar: Good! That's good.]] For Mayor Sándor Fésüs, Mayor Lajos Vilonya, Mayor Ráczkevi, Mayor Papkeszi, Mayor Béla Marton, Mayor Balatonfűzfő, Mayor Attila Szedlák, Liter... [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Then this is a criminal organization!]] Mr. President, please. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] allow the apparently excited and disturbed right-wing Members to calm down and give my answer. So CEO Krisztina Barta Sövegjártóné also received this information, in which the President-CEO wrote, quote: [[György Szilágyi: Did they post it on Facebook?]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Having examined the situation, after reviewing the experience of the past few weeks and further options, our company decided to close the site and completely reorganize the waste management processes. We will keep you informed of the steps taken and the further pace, and the removal and closure of the site will continue to take place. We also asked the President-CEO to inform the people. [[13.50]] I would like to say here in this House to the Parliament and to the citizens of the municipalities concerned that I have served their interests from the beginning. We've been working to stop this unpleasant smell. We will do everything in our power to work together with the local government and the service providers, the local government association, the holding company, to achieve this. I ask my honourable fellow Member, although I understand that the grapes are sour, because on 8 April he was not trusted. [[Interviews from the benches of Jobbik, including György Szilágyi: Did you or did you not promise? The president's ringing the bell.]] but don't say anything that's not true in the future, and if you speak in this matter, I'll be happy to give you information first. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter also asked for the floor on a point of order. You have the floor in two minutes.
u2018-10-24-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary Kontra spoke to me, so I must answer him. You, I think you know perfectly well that I have not abused any data. [[Intercoms from the pro-government and secretary of state benches, including: Yes, you can. Németh Szilárd István: Constantly! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've brought in Hungarian soldiers!]] I'm a threat to one thing: your suspected cases of abuse, the government's suspected cases. That's what they're trying to hide, and that's what I'm a danger to, yes. For example, in the Defence and Police Committee, it would be appropriate for you to say and finally answer, also here in plenary, how many residence permits have been withdrawn, for example, from criminals I have specifically mentioned and whether all permits issued by settlement obligations will be withdrawn. You're not bringing this into the Homeland Security and Police Committee, you're not even bringing it to a closed session. I just submitted the fourth amendment to the agenda on this subject, and the Defence Committee refused to put it on the agenda. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Explain!]] By the way, now I'm really gonna ask you, secret? Would it be a secret in this country that you withdraw your permits for residence? That 20,000 pieces that keep turning out to be criminals entering this country. Then say from now on that everything in Hungary is now secret, so that you do not have to report it. We will continue to monitor the government by any means that we have in our hands, whether you like it or not.
u2018-10-24-116	Dear Parliament, We will continue our work; we will proceed to the discussion of immediate questions. However, before we begin the work, I would like to announce that since the Minister has not arrived for the first speech on behalf of the Government, I am ordering a two-minute technical break. Please stay where you are. [[It's a short break. Gergely Gulyás arrives.]] Dear Parliament, Welcome to the Minister. We will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Tamás Sneider, Márton Gyöngyösi and György Szi-lágyi, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Thank you, Mr President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.]] I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács and Lajos Rig, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-10-24-117	Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár has lied to you enough today, so please...
u2018-10-24-118	Please don't judge me. Will you take it or not? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-10-24-119	Thank you very much. We'll wait for the Minister. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're funny!]]
u2018-10-24-120	And I warn you, Congressman. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. The Chief of Staff has appointed Mr Csaba Dömötör Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person of the responding person or ask for the answer in person.
u2018-10-24-121	I accept, thank you very much.
u2018-10-24-122	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me to begin with my question. What's the Bolshevik pace, gentlemen? ! How long are you going to lie to the country about all the illegal things you've been up to in the past? Allow me to quote Ferenc Deák: If it were up to me, there would be only one paragraph of the press law: to lie should not be allowed to. *But let us play with the idea: what if Ferenc Deák lived today, and he would say this sentence as an opposition representative? They would say anything about him now: that he was a serialist agent, that he was a pro-immigration politician, that he had put faith in Allah, but that even his gender identity would be questioned. That's how your press machine works. Whoever tells the truth, who dares to stand up to the lies, you think he's a liar, and he's immediately attacked by the most despicable means. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Why is your hand shaking?]] We have seen many examples of this in recent years. We've won over 150 lawsuits, 150! Only those -- that means we just didn't win the lawsuit that we didn't start. But you will not learn from these, and you will continue. For example, last week I won a lawsuit against a portal in Dunaújváros, which is also a public money cemetery. Allow me, then, Minister, to ask my question. After their fall in 2002, you were leading the opposition to receive a public television channel above the actual left-wing media weight. So I would like to ask you again: what is this Bolshevik tempo? Where did the former noble thoughts go for balanced media when they were concerned? Do you consider it acceptable that an old-fashioned government calling itself a Christian Democrat only supports media platforms with public advertisements where there is obviously only a fake news and a lie factory? I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-24-124	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-24-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The lawsuit that Jobbik launches, what the courts decide, is a matter for the judiciary, not for the National Assembly. To respond to the subject as well as to the initiative announced today: it is clear that Jobbik's identity confusion is a great deal, and I see that their relationship with the public, the press. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] [[14.00]] It's hard to follow exactly what you want, because there was an example of you demanding that one or another TV invite you in more often, and then you went in, and you were acting like the chicken-suited activist of the Two-tailed Dog Party. Then, if I understand correctly, they are proclaiming boycotts, which are difficult to follow; I suggest that this debate be conducted within the party. Either way, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that media in Hungary enjoy professional autonomy, so if you are attacking one or the other, it is an open pressure exercise, and the fact is that you are also trying to intimidate them. We don't want any part of this. And by the way, as far as the Hungarian public, the Hungarian press, is concerned, the Hungarian press is diverse, everyone finds media that meet their own interests, world vision and needs. [[Intercom from Jobbik: You have strange tastes!]] from Kuruc.info to Népszava, and that's okay. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-126	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-127	You know, now it's clear from your answer that not only are they lying, but they've started a total war against reality. For example, one of Péter Mansfeld's fellow Members is here in a T-shirt decorated with his face, while the people who once fought for Hungary's freedom and even for freedom of the press are the ones who spit in the eye, our ancestors who stood up for Hungary. Aren't you ashamed, gentlemen? ! Do you want to continue at this Bolshevik pace? I think it's very inappropriate. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms from the ruling parties, among other things: We are deep!]]
u2018-10-24-128	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2018-10-24-129	Thank you for the floor. You are working with those who executed Peter Mansfeld in more and more areas. [[Gergely Farkas: That's not what you're lying about.]] Who are your successors, so don't take it out on us. By the way, when it comes to the public, you supported a portal that published personal data of public figures, you supported an online TV [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] which also commemorated Hitler's birthday [[Interviews from Jobbik, among other things: You're the star on that portal!]] A former editor-in-chief recently talked about how, in addition to the payment, money was sent to them in cash, and after that, you're still trying to account for us. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] But to give you a fresh example: your protestors insulted a television reporter very strongly yesterday; if they came to power, they would do the same to anyone who does not say or does not ask what you want to hear. That's what Jobbik's media policy is; it wouldn't be good to try it. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Shame on you! György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I think that we are in the Parliament building and that perhaps we should show a worthy attitude. [[A statement from Jobbik: You mustn't lie...]] I think it's not a crime to listen to each other. [[A statement from Jobbik: But lying is, Mr. President. Don't take it personally.]] And maybe it's appropriate in this House. Thank you. And if the words are chosen not elsewhere, but in the House of the Country, perhaps it would be good. [[György Szilágyi: We are there, yes...]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Millions of people suffer from it, but do you not care? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman says she'll accept it. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-24-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, Today we can say that high blood pressure is a popular disease in Hungary. It affects nearly 42 percent of the adult population, of the 8.3 million adults we are talking about 3.5 million people. In the summer, the news exploded that there were 200,000 patients taking cancer-contaminated drugs for years. I asked several written questions about who was responsible for this, and the government kept drawing attention to the manufacturing company, and I still didn't get an answer to my questions, but I did. The government said they'd take it out of circulation, which is the right thing to do with these carcinogen drugs, so just imagine what's happened since then. In Hungary, we are talking about millions of people taking medicines for high blood pressure on a daily basis. Today, we have come to the point that there has been a huge shortage of antihypertensive drugs in Hungary. They kept saying that it is not possible to stop taking these medicines immediately, because it can become dangerous for patients if they stop, only, ladies and gentlemen, there is no antihypertensive in pharmacy. You go to replace your medicine, and you are confronted with the fact that you cannot replace it because you are notified from settlement to settlement, although after that I also tried in Budapest, and they said that there is a national shortage, and they said that a substitute medicine can be used, but that it can also be used in limited quantities. I couldn't get an answer to when this problem would be solved. Dear Minister, I would like an answer to what will happen to millions of Hungarian heart patients, how the government will solve this problem. You can take drugs for three months, and you're on antihypertensives today. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What's going to happen to these patients? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-10-24-132	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-24-133	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and When we are thinking and trying to figure out why Fidesz and the Prime Minister have succeeded personally, I think that one of the possible explanations is that the opposition believes that the Prime Minister is good at everything, that is possible, that the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office is no longer true. That's why if you're on a purely medical issue with a mysterious title, millions of people are suffering from it, but you don't care? If you ask a question, you might want to go to the competent wallet, the Ministry of Human Resources. What I can tell you is that in relation to the medicine you mentioned, the active substance was authorised everywhere in Europe, and the Hungarian authority was the first to act against it. So as to the form and speed of the doctor's opinion that it is justified to take a medicine when someone has started taking it, this is a medical debate in which I absolutely do not wish to take a stand. However, I suggest that the next time you wish to ask a question on health matters, whether in the form of an immediate question or an interpellation, you should contact the professional wallet with confidence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-134	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-135	Thank you very much, Minister, for warning your ministers of the need to carry out their duties. Minister Kásler doesn't even go to Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He was here last week! A statement from the opposition: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then!]] comes in when you have to answer. Secretary of State, I've asked the Ministry several questions, and I'm only getting backup answers, which is not appropriate. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] I asked you, Minister, because we're talking 3.5 million people. We are talking about 3.5 million Hungarians who have faced years of taking 200,000 patients with carcinogenic agents for antihypertensives, and after this, a shortage of medicines has developed in the 21st century. In the century Hungary, which is unacceptable. They could not prepare in months how these medicines would be replaced. You can say now, Minister, that 3.5 million people could be in danger. It's also not a solution to go into the pharmacy and say the apothecary in an emergency situation, because he can't do anything else, that he's gonna give me a substitute medicine, because he can't do everything with a substitute medicine. Because when you go to the doctor with your problem, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] then you need to investigate, and basically, you need to back it up. [[The president's ringing again.]] that you can take that medicine. Mr. Secretary. 3.5 million people [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] He's clueless in this case, and you've been refusing to speak for months. (The President's ringing again.) That's your job, Minister. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2018-10-24-136	Congresswoman, thank you, one minute is available in case of rejoinder. Thank you for your understanding. Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2018-10-24-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I trust, in fact, that all 3.5 million people who you think are affected are significantly smaller than those who are affected, are wiser than you and will consult a doctor if you have such a problem, probably not asking the Prime Minister or me for help. We have one thing to say, and the state is obviously responsible for the functioning of the authorities, that the active substance, which I understand correctly, was authorised throughout Europe. The Hungarian authorities... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Antihypertensive!]] It's antihypertensive, that's right. The Hungarian authorities were the first to take action against this. Therefore, the Hungarian State has nothing to do in this case. [[14.10]] Of course, it is important for antihypertensive medicines to be available to everyone, but I do not understand the criticism in the specific case because the Hungarian authorities were the first to have any criticism of this medicine when they first appeared in Europe. Allow me, as Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to give you this much information on this issue which is clearly related to the State Secretary for Health. I trust that voters will seek medical attention at a time like this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-138	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. How much longer do we have to wait? It's an address. Minister Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, has appointed a response to the urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, We've known since Bismarck that politicians lie the biggest in wars or elections. You've been at war for eight years, and you've been lying all the time, practically producing lies. One of their biggest products is that the wages of Hungarian people are soaring, and their average wages are around 320 thousand forints, for example, even though everyone on the reality planet knows that it is good to have this figure between 200 and 220 thousand forints. But the shards of reality did not stop you from voting in favour of the tax laws that led the extra wage benefits out of the salary of the Hungarian workers, so that you searched in the pockets of 4 million people and took out 25-30 percent net income. To name the issue, for example, for people working in Audi, this will be 30 thousand forints a month from 1 January 2019. But this is nothing, because the remaining cafeteria can be spent not on what people spend on in general, but on restaurants, guesthouses, baths, because you think that is what Hungarian workers spend extra wage benefits on. Of course, this is not true: Hungarian people usually bought food, school supplies and season tickets from these benefits. But how would you know that, since you are not in solidarity with this country. We are now hearing news from trade union leaders that they may be amending the tax law this year, and that is why I am asking the Minister whether or not they intend to make it possible for the non-wage benefit, the cafeteria, to not tax it as a wage income. It is an honour not only for me, but for 4 million other workers. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-24-140	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister.
u2018-10-24-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that the Fidesz government has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of how wages have increased in recent years. The rise in wages and wages in Hungary is also outstanding in the European Union. What's the reason for this? Of course, there are several reasons for this. The main reason for this is the tax system, since the introduction of a single-key tax system and family tax relief after the MSZP government and its continuous increase and growth, since 2019 the tax relief rate will be 40 thousand forints per month after two children, and the transfer of family tax incentives to contributions has also brought significant results and wage increases to the Hungarian economy and Hungarian workers through the Hungarian economy. In January and August 2018, gross wages amounted to HUF 324 thousand. The cafeteria was one of the basic elements of your question; this is no longer a current issue; this was also discussed and voted for by Parliament. It must be clearly stated here that the majority of the government and Parliament were of the opinion that people would not receive their wage income in kind, but primarily in forints, and spend it on what they wanted. This new system, the wage agreement two years ago, and also the favourable tax system, I believe, will have an impact in this direction and serve this purpose. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-142	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have a rejoinder, Congressman, please, in a moment.
u2018-10-24-143	Yeah, well, I didn't get an answer to my question, but it's not real at all. Your government has promised that it will also help employers to pay more wages to workers to increase their mobility, but this is not the case. So these things won't happen then, or I don't know, because I didn't get an answer. But in order to talk about reality, how good wages are in Hungary, this is today's advertisement for Aldi, where they offer a monthly gross HUF 102 per month to store for 12 days' work. If the double of this, if you work twice as much, of course we are talking about a night allowance, it would be only HUF 200,000 gross, which we all know we are talking about 130-140 thousand forints a month. So these are the fantastic wages, the average wages you're talking about, and that's what you think you can make a living in Hungary when the rent for an apartment is roughly higher than what you pay people in general. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-24-144	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-145	Thank you very much. The fact that 750,000 more people are working now than in 2010 does not justify your claim, but confirms that the aim in Hungary is to make a living from work, and that it is worth living from work, yet it confirms that this is the case. And the fact that real wages in Hungary have been growing steadily for 68 months is also evidence of your KSH data, such as 2018 I-VIII. Real earnings rose by 9 percent in the last month compared to the previous year, both gross and net wages increased by 11.8 percent. In the last two years, actions have increased by around 26 percent in the national economy, and we believe that this will further accelerate our catch-up to European wages. This is clearly the aim of the Hungarian Government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-146	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the situation of the dissipating rural areas. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-10-24-147	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, but I will wait for Prime Minister to answer.
u2018-10-24-148	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is the government planning? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Last week, the Fidesz majority accepted the abolition of state aid to housing savings banks with a record speed in an exceptional procedure, which means that this kind of savings completely lost the quality of making it worth it for a simple Hungarian electorate to conclude such a contract. In practice, you have removed a tool that has helped hundreds of thousands of families get homes or renovate their existing homes over the last two decades. They've done all this for the reasons they've been told, without impact assessments, without social consultation, at a fidesz pace, during the night, in 24 hours. In the year of families, the government, not for the first time, is attacking the families again, because the house savings were a designable real help tool, not a risky foreign exchange loan, not just a CSOK available to the upper middle class. The abolition of house savings will have dramatic consequences. It will cut off hundreds of thousands of families from home creation, put condominiums in an impossible position, make it impossible for them to modernise, renovate. Today, it should not be narrowing down, but increasing subsidies that help to get home, which will help to renovate the home. [[14.20]] There is a need for a support system that does not give much to many, but to many. In addition, at the same time, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP rejected LMP's proposals on the construction of a rental apartment on each occasion, rejecting any proposal that would have extended any support other than the CSOK. Among other things, they refused to reduce the VAT on renovation. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, why it was so urgent to abolish the aid scheme that would give millions of Hungarians a favourable position. When will the government finally start dealing with the national housing crisis in the year of families? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2018-10-24-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-24-151	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's aim is to ensure that all State aid which has been used by the State in the savings bank system can be used to build and buy housing. Accordingly, a decision will be taken as soon as possible to extend the COS programme, and in this context we hope that all the objectives that you have mentioned and in which we agree will be well served by the enlarged COS programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-152	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There is one problem: if that were true, Mr State Secretary, you would have brought these alternative proposals and, in light of this, decided to abolish the state aid for housing savings banks. But that's not what you did. You simply cut off a subsidy from the Hungarian people who cannot save hundreds of thousands at the end of the month today. They took support from the people and from our fellow countrymen who could save 10-20 thousand forints. You have destroyed practically the last effective possibility of self-care, have made it impossible for small people to make their own credit, and have made it impossible to create an effective source of housing renovation. With all due respect, if your claim were true, you could have made those alternative proposals, but you didn't.
u2018-10-24-154	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás in return. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-24-155	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, My request, by qualifying for an extended or extended COS programme, is at least to wait for its presentation. I understand that housing savings banks can be weeped, but on the one hand, whoever has previously done this can, of course, continue to benefit from this in the ascending system, and, on the other hand, that the benefits of this have migrated beyond the citizens, it is sufficient that if the state aid is deducted from the housing savings fund payments, then the returns were negative. That's pretty telling data. Finally, I understand that you are criticising foreign currency loans together, and we agree with that, but otherwise, foreign currency loans have been made general and widespread in Hungary by those with whom you have been assisted by the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-156	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-10-24-157	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2018-10-24-158	Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-24-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It's October now, the month to fight breast cancer. In Hungary, about 7,000 women are diagnosed with breast cancer each year, and about 2 000 or more of them die. This is the number one cause of cancer in women. Every 10 to 12 women in their lives develop this disease. Early detection is also of the utmost importance in this cancer, since 80 percent of patients with an early stage can recover, while only 15 percent can recover from metastases. However, the number of cancer screening studies is far below expected. No money, no enough professionals in the system, and it seems that breast cancer screening has also become a victim of corruption and fidesz theft, and there are no tools. By July, the ten filter buses equipped with mammography machines were supposed to be ready for a total of 1.7 billion forints for which you wrote out an application. The company entrusted with the construction has delivered one piece instead of ten. Public procurement was won by a company unknown in the market for medical devices, a certain H1 Systems Engineering Services Ltd. This company has dealt with the establishment of data centres and security solutions before and had nothing to do with health care. But we do know that Sándor Pintér's Home Secretary was involved in the Kft. It's absurd what's happening in this area. So I'm asking what's going on with this project. For now, we see that it is an incompetent company, a failed bus factory, modified deadlines, a single piece of bus and HUF 1.7 billion on the tray. I would ask the Secretary of State to answer the following questions. Why was the filter buses entrusted to a company that had nothing to do with this area? Has the case been filed, or will there be any investigation? When are the buses going to be ready, the other nine buses, are they even ready? And I ask you, Secretary of State, to spare me the past eight years, since you have been in government for the ninth year, so I would like a professional response. Thank you.
u2018-10-24-160	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The government's aim is to prevent as many diseases as possible, so we are trying to make the screening system more effective, and to provide new and new preventive vaccinations and other opportunities for Hungarian citizens. You know that breast screening is free for every woman in a given age group, but it's not really as many people as there are supposed to be. One of the reasons for this is that many do not like to go to the hospital, and this type of inhibition is what holds them back. This led the government to believe that if patients or not are sick, but those who are good for screening tests, if they do not go to the hospital because it is a hospital, then we will get the screenings from the hospital and create a filter bus with ten general filter buses, ten mammogram filter buses that go to people, even smaller settlements from which they did not go for a test, and these two or ten filter buses run the country, and also those people who did not get these screenings by general screening or mammography screening. That's why we started the filter bus program. You know that the second ten filter buses have already started their activities. Our goal is to have a 70% participation rate in this type of screening as well. Here, of course, there are other health development services, lifestyle counseling, cervical screening and much more. The date we want these ten mammogram buses to work is April 30, 2019. The amount you mentioned is obviously the cost of manufacturing all buses and not the cost of manufacturing a bus. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we have launched a number of other programmes, specifically for health conservation purposes. It is enough to think about decisions to reduce smoking, to introduce a potato tax, to improve school health, to introduce three or even four new vaccines free of charge, and to set up health development offices. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-162	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-10-24-163	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I didn't ask you about the chip transmitter, and I didn't ask you about the vaccine against cervical cancer. I asked you where that 1.7 billion forint went. How is it that, by July, ten buses were supposed to be ready, instead a piece of bus was made, and you still haven't answered any of the voices. I'd like to ask you again when the remaining nine buses will be ready. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I already told you.]] He didn't tell me! When and why was this public procurement issued to an incompetent company, the HUF 1.7 billion, which has nothing to do with the production of filter buses, had nothing to do with health care, but has more to do with Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér? [[14.30]] We're talking about fidesz theft again. We're talking about corruption again. Again, you're talking about a potato tax when I'm not asking you about that. He's talking again about a vaccine I didn't ask about, and again he blames the Hungarian patients and women for not liking going to the hospital. Zoltán Balog once pretended that he didn't think there were enough screening because Hungarian women didn't leave. I would like to ask for this on behalf of Hungarian women. Give me an honest answer. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of Dialogue and DK.]]
u2018-10-24-164	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I would be happy to repeat it for your sake, although everyone else in Parliament's Chamber has heard that mammogram screening buses will be fully delivered until 30 April 2019. I also think it is important, honourable Member, that we face the rate of participation in screening: between 40 and 50 percent. This should go much higher. It should go about 75 percent. You have to see how to increase this rate by 10%, 20%, 30%. This is not an insult to anyone, honourable Member, but the fear of these people's lives, so that they do not get into such a difficult situation years or decades later that they face this very serious disease and disease. That's why the government started this filter bus. You know, in other countries, much earlier, decades ago, they used similar tools. We would like to use these tools now, both in terms of general screening and in the case of mammographic screening. Rather, I would ask you to encourage as many as possible that this is a free, accessible service, public service, and that you can prevent more problems later. Rather, you should encourage people to take part in this and prevent major problems from occurring later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-166	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Hubay, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. Politicians threatening Hungary's national security have no place in the Parliament! How far does the rights of an opposition representative extend? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr István Szilárd Németh State Secretary for his response to the urgent public task. [[Noise and clarity in opposition benches.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-10-24-167	I accept the Secretary of State.
u2018-10-24-168	You have the floor, Congressman. I would also like to ask my fellow Members to listen to the honourable Member.
u2018-10-24-169	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Last week we witnessed one of the worst leak scandals in the history of Hungarian politics, when non-public military information, which is also a threat to national security, came to light. And the case is linked to Márta Demeter, deputy leader of the LMP faction. Márta Demeter, I think you have completely abused the rights and opportunities of your representatives. The Vice-President of the Defence and Police Committee was given the opportunity to obtain information from both a non-public military and even national security perspective in the course of a file review. However, he could not hold on to what he saw there for long, and apparently risked the safety of a Hungarian soldier and his family on a UN mission purely for political reasons. He shared information with the public that he had broken his oath of representatives and proved to be unsuitable for the position of Vice-President of such a serious technical committee. As a responsible politician, Márta Demeter risked the lives of others irresponsiblely. For he ran through the personality rights of the captain's family serving in Cyprus, using the identity of a two-year-old girl to produce more outrageous false news about the Prime Minister and his family. It is amazing that in the final despair of the fallen opposition, he can do anything, and neither the private life of the soldiers nor the national security of our country is important to them. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik and LMP.]] The Fidesz-KDNP faction association finds it outrageous that an elected Member of Parliament does not hold himself under the oath of his representatives for a simple political gain and grossly transcends his own powers. In connection with the case, it has been proven that Márta Demeter's conduct and thus his personality pose a national security risk, so he must leave the Defence and Police Committee and the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, In the light of the above, I ask how far the rights of an opposition representative extend, and if this line has been crossed by Congresswoman Márta Demeter, [[Constant intervention from opposition benches, among other things: Enough of this! You're lying! Time's up. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then what steps the government intends to take to ensure that in the future no new opposition representative's irresponsible running of amok will occur. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-170	Congressman, your time limit is up. Thank you. [[Moore and applause in the opposition benches. Gergely Harvesto: Shame!]] Then, when the Jobbik or MSZP Group has a time frame overdue... I have done the same thing, but I see that it needs to be clarified. Dear Parliament, Besides, I didn't ask for help. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Honourable Parliament! Congressman! Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary István Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-24-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I fully agree with you that, with what you have described and published here in detail in Parliament, you are clearly violating defence interests, and this poses a national security risk not only for the defence but also for the entire country. However, I find it far more serious that, after this has been revealed, and even that it is continuing to do so not once, since it has also made another person famous with false news, and it has also forged news that could not have been made public. After all, he was made aware of documents, information that was clearly written in the Kecskemét file on which they were not public, which was also warned by the congresswoman, but he abused this situation, made these data public, and even falsified it. But returning to the fact that he must be clearly responsible for his action, the Fidesz faction has turned to the prosecution and the chairman of the commission is initiating a review of the congresswoman's national security review. But it is much more serious that, on the day the continuation was discovered, the forgery was discovered, it was discovered that it had released militaryly sensitive data, thus endangering not only the security of the soldier and his family, but also the interests of the entire defence, the training process that was experienced by the Hungarian Defence Office during this period, LMP then elected him as co-chair. What we have seen here, we have heard here in the last few minutes from the opposition, that they are completely shutting us down behind such a Member, I think that is truly in the act of the fearsome Márta Demeter. And once again, the way they're apologizing to their nails and trying to make him innocent in this case. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-172	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I will give the floor to the speaker in a one-minute time frame.
u2018-10-24-173	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. His reply reassured me [[Intercoms from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Because I take it from your words that the government will not pass this unprecedented case without saying a word. As I said in the first part of my speech, Mrs President, you did what you did out of political gain, I think it is outrageous. In addition, he must not only rise from the Defence and Police Committee, but also leave the Hungarian political life. Thank you. [[Márta Demeter: I'll stand up and answer.]]
u2018-10-24-174	Thank you. I would like to ask my fellow Members to try to honor each other by listening to each other. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-24-175	Thank you very much. What did Marta Demeter do? Once again, the Ministry of Defence has granted him the right to learn information that is not publicly available, which is not accessible to everyone. He has these data, which are not public under the Defense Act 38. § 7 of the Act, he made it public and even forged it. I ask the raging opposition representatives: in addition to feeling the risk of national security, it is possible in the world, whether here or in Budapest, to check in with an airline, ask for the passenger list, of course, and then receive the passenger list, and then disclose the data, and then anyone can excuse him in front of the Hungarian court or anyone? ! [[14.40]] Is that possible? It's not gonna happen. At the Hungarian Defence Office, it is not possible to do this at all, and certainly not from the position of Vice-President of the Defence and Police Committee, the position of the commission where he is for all data, all sensitive [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You can obtain security data at any time. Marta Demeter has to go, even if she says it's a lie. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-176	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question. Wait a minute. I ask you to understand, Congressman, here in the rush, there is a better speech. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: å How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Secretary of State for the response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-10-24-177	I'll take it, thank you.
u2018-10-24-178	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Have you ever met a child who asks what you're going to be when you grow up, says he's going to be a corrupt politician, a stolen minister, or a thief's secretary of state? [[Dr. János Fónagy: Or betterman representative. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Or no betterman congressman.]] Obviously not. No, because the natural instruments of such preschool children or children still work very well, their hearts are in the right place, so they say that they want to be teacher aunts, doctor uncles, soldiers, firefighters or policemen. Society values these vocations morally, so the police's confidence index is high, but we know that the Nersheviks are capable of everything for power and money, but that is why we should not destroy the social confidence surrounding the police after the 2006 Gyurcsány amok run. You've been sneaky and cowardly for 12 years, when you've left the protesting crowd and delivered it to the bums of the eyeballs, and you're still cowardly and sneaky, you're acting like this, because you can only hide behind the police line, enforce the essence of nerevism, that anyone who isn't with you is considered to be against you, that you're lying at night, lying at night, lying at night, lying at all wavelengths. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Volner said that about Jobbik!]] And obviously that includes stealing. They do, by the way, hiding behind the back of these little cops to steal from them, including by taking their overtime money away from them. [[György Szi-Lágyi: That's right!]] And these cops shouldn't be protecting your back, they should be in those ghetto villages where the honest people are terrified. Dear Secretary of State, How normal, at all, do you feel about the policy that you are pursuing in this regard? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-24-180	I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, To his own question, I think he gave the answer himself, because in the first third of his question he acknowledged the very important fact that the public appreciation of the Hungarian police, the Hungarian police, was very high, and that is true, which I also thank him for telling me that after the events in 2006, his confidence in the Hungarian police, the Hungarian police, was greatly weakened, collapsed, and it was very difficult for this society to use the police and the police for political purposes. Indeed, this situation has changed. After 2010, the faith in the Hungarian police, the Hungarian police and public security changed significantly, and thanks to the activities of God and the government, today the Hungarian police are one of the most reliable institutions in the Hungarian institutional system and the most respected by the citizens. This has also been helped by the successful protection of Hungary's borders by these police officers, which is supported by the fact that public order and public security in the country are maintained very well and professionally, and this helps to ensure that in Hungary, crimes have fallen drastically in recent years. We are well aware that the number of criminal offences that have become known is nearly 50 percent compared to the 2010 situation. Overall, I can tell you that all the steps that the Government of Hungary is taking for the police, for the police and, of course, for the citizens in a carried-over and direct sense, have come to fruition and can be considered successful. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-182	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-183	Mr. Secretary. Yesterday, we saw you mobilizing enormous forces to stop the extremely dangerous egg crime. I understand by this that the national resistance has indeed thrown at the headquarters of the state brainwashing plant, as well as the Nersevik party center, the Fidesz Lendvay street headquarters. These police forces should not have threatened, say, college girls with physical search, but these police forces should be in those no-go zones here in Hungary, whose existence you deny, but where, unfortunately, there can be a shameful, bestial lynching like the tragedy of Italy at any time. And then these police officers should be there to take away those political criminals on a ledger who steal millions, billions from this nation, from this country. Therefore, Mr Secretary, I cannot accept that answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-10-24-184	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-10-24-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, it is a political force that marks the type of celebration that it produces on a national holiday and what kind of a hobby it is. Your celebration has shown you. Obviously, the people who didn't go to your celebrations had to make up for them in some way. By order of your party director, who issued an order to lay eggs, they threw an innocent house at him on his orders. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Because it was all your accomplishments. I'd like to say so much to Congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that you may not have noticed that this year there was an election, that in this election, you've made an effort, too. [[Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] you also received the votes from the Hungarian citizens. When you ask for credibility, I think it would be easiest for you to draw up electoral records and see what the Hungarian citizens have decided on the issue of credibility. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: what does the government do to create jobs for young people? Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Sándor Bodó Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public duty. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-10-24-187	I'll take it, thank you.
u2018-10-24-188	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Young people are the keepers of our future, so we must do everything we can to make them well. The government is constantly expanding the range of support and opportunities that help young people to start a family, create a home, learn languages or continue to work. If we highlight some support from this year, we should not forget that from January to every young person under the age of 30 will be reimbursed ex post by the government for a successful middle- or higher-level complex language exam, and from 1 July to the threshold of 20-year-olds, the price of the KRESZ course and the exam. The government also places particular emphasis on promoting youth employment. As a result, we learned from the news that the number of young people participating in the Youth Guarantee programme exceeded 100,000. Dear Secretary of State, It is also outstanding at European level that youth unemployment has been reduced from around 30 percent in 2010 to close to 10 percent, thanks to the programme and other measures. [[14.50]] Of course, the goal set for young people can only be to achieve full employment. On the basis of the above, I am therefore asking the Honourable Secretary of State what measures will help young people to work, what results have been achieved by the Youth Guarantee programme to achieve full employment. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-10-24-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr President, thank you very much for focusing our attention on this important issue. Indeed, all employees are important to the Hungarian government, but those under the age of 25 deserve special attention. Obviously, they have less work experience, sometimes minimal, fresh skills, some uncertainty in the labour market, so we, more experienced citizens, I think we have a duty to help them. That's what the government does, by the way. The result of this is the important figure that it is worth stressing here in the Hungarian Parliament that the youth unemployment rate has fallen from around 28 per cent to 9.5 per cent by 2018, and this is much better than the EU average. Obviously, this should be the reverse, and it must also be the employment rate of young people, which increased from 18.3 percent in 2010 to 28.7 percent in the second quarter of 2018. This, of course, did not go on by itself, so it took a lot of work, to launch useful, meaningful programs. In particular, I would like to highlight the Youth Guarantee scheme, which covers a total amount of HUF 254 billion for a number of programmes to support employment, entrepreneurial development and training. The "Youth Guarantee" programme is one of the elements of the system, which, as you have already mentioned, has provided support for the placement or professional qualifications of more than 102 thousand jobseekers under 25 years of age, and this is obviously not the end of the job. We plan to help more than 160,000 young people by the end of 2021. Of course, there are several programmes that help their progress. I will respond to this in my next response. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, in return. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-193	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. It is important that the Government of Hungary is committed to the future of youth and thus to the future of our country. It is important that Fidesz-KDNP sees Hungary's future instead of migration in Hungarian children and in Hungarian youth, so it will do everything in its power to support them and to increase their employment. It is important that the government is looking for points in which it can further assist young people and families. Thank you again. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-10-24-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I promised a few minutes ago, I will certainly be able to give a concrete example of how and in what form the government will help. One of them is the programme supporting the work experience of skilled career beginners, the internship programme, which has enabled nearly 5100 people to work so far, and obviously this will continue. The second is the programme for young people to become entrepreneurs, which has helped some 1,900 young people to set up their businesses, and 571 of them have already received the funds and support needed to start a business. We want to continue this work in the future. Thank you very much for your question and for your respect. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-196	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can an elderly person receive free health care? It's an address. The Prime Minister's response to an urgent public mission... [[Lajos Korózs: I accept.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-10-24-197	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Last week, there were three cases in the country that made it clear that the principle of solidarity in health is finally breaking up. One such news was that those who used the health service without a legal basis could collect the amount within five years from the health insurance company's knowledge. It is not a small item, since on average 195 thousand for hospital care, 375 thousand for the treatment of heart attack, 68 thousand for the delivery of birth, the medical institutions and hospitals. The other news was that they were sending old people home without care. I know about it, but the person on Facebook saw exactly how he was spinning at the end of the week, that a married couple over 75 years of age was told that they should give the field to young people. Of the couple, the elderly woman's doctor decides from month to month whether to receive a life - sustaining medicine. I would like to emphasise that we are not talking about people who are not terminally ill. The third such news was that wages in public health in Romania had risen sharply, and this should be added. They're going from the private sector to the state. It's the other way around, the public sector is leaking health professionals into private practice. That's why I'm asking the Minister when he's gonna settle his so-called 600,000 troublesome property card relations with the health department. I stress that we are talking about 600,000 people. The other is whether older people can receive high-quality medical care, up to 75 years of age. Thirdly, how many health workers have applied for work permits in Romania in recent years. Thank you very much.
u2018-10-24-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-10-24-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, There's no reason to be alarmed about health. Of course, the quality of health care, I do not say that it is uniform everywhere in the country, and it is also natural to say that everywhere else in Europe could be better, but this does not change the fact that we are spending an enormous amount on health care today than at the time of your governance. In total, we spend more than 500 billion forints a year on health care than in your last year when you were on the government. Compared to this, between 2012-19 the nursing wages doubled, the medical wages increased by HUF 207 thousand in two years. These are the biggest progress made since the change in the system in terms of wages. So I am surprised that the Member is more sympathetic to the Romanian example when he could take a similar example from his own country. And as far as care is concerned, it does not even occur to me that an elderly person would not be cared for. Of course, all pensioners are entitled to health insurance, all pensioners are entitled to health insurance. If someone in this health insurance care didn't intentionally prescribe the right medication, I wouldn't even assume that there was one, it would commit a serious crime. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-10-24-200	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-10-24-201	Minister, what I know is that according to the law, these elderly people, pensioners, are entitled to free health care, but, you know, it was in this report, where the health worker told the children of old people that they knew they were walking, but they just couldn't get it. You can read this report. In addition, look, I don't want to give you any specific examples, I'm just telling you, because today is the most topical of this case: please, an elderly woman over 75 has carried out a heart attack on her feet, and then her children have taken her to the hospital and told her to be happy that she lived so long, and then sent her home without any care. This poor old woman is dead, and her funeral is today. I told you last time that I don't want any political benefit from this, but, Minister, it's people without care. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They're sending me home, and they're not even gonna tell him that it's gonna happen one day of the month, I think it's unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2018-10-24-202	Thank you, Congressman, a minute's rejoinder. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go. [[15.00]]
u2018-10-24-203	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I also think that there is no country in Europe where there is no malpractice. If a malpractice is committed, the doctor, the hospital, or the insurance company will be liable for compensation. And if this happens on purpose, and if the case you mentioned really happened, [[Dr. István Apáti: Will the dead be resurrected by compensation?]] Then it's considered deliberate, then it's a felony. So once again, I say that the unfair political game I think is not worth playing here in Parliament, that if someone from 10 million Hungarian citizens who are involved in health insurance does not receive proper treatment, then he asks the Prime Minister. Because the only thing we can do today is provide health care with HUF 505 billion more than during the socialist government. So if that's not enough today, you can imagine what that might have been enough for at your time. There is never such a thing as not being provided because health insurance does not provide a source. The state can guarantee that. And, of course, it is in all our interests that the high-quality medical education, which the Hungarian University of Medicine has always known about, should remain, and then the number of malpractices can be kept as low as possible. But this should be a common goal, and if this does not happen in one case, then there must be strict consequences, whether criminal law or not. There's no reason for you to press charges against the government or the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-10-24-204	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Before we proceed to the speeches after the agenda, Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked for the floor as a matter of personal concern. I give you two minutes.
u2018-10-24-205	Thank you, Mr. President. It's kind of hard to take seriously what you're saying when Szilárd Németh here yells out his lies and then shows extraordinary courage, leaves the room and doesn't wait for my answer. But you can see they're in a lot of trouble, and they're telling a lot of lies.
u2018-10-24-206	Congresswoman, you can't answer your point of view as a matter of personal concern.
u2018-10-24-207	That's what I'm saying, Mr. President.
u2018-10-24-208	[[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Congressman, I didn't ask you. I didn't ask you!
u2018-10-24-209	Mr. Secretary of State spoke to me and Mr. Hubay spoke to me, and I answer their points.
u2018-10-24-210	[[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I didn't ask you!
u2018-10-24-211	So I know this is very painful for you, but it's still the Members of Parliament who control the operation of the government and its decisions. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: There's no problem with that. Don't endanger a Hungarian soldier. Dr. Zoltán Kovács: Personal involvement, Mr. President?]] We're doing this on behalf of our constituents. And I believe that this is very painful for the Ministry of Defence, when they're about to buy nearly a thousand billion dollars in public procurement, so they're trying to spend these funds in complete secrecy, with an amazing risk of corruption. Whether you like it or not, our eyes will be on these purchases, and you will continue to receive any questions that are suspected of abuse. That's what I've done now, and I'm going to keep up with all the questions I've asked. I would also like to say that only and only the Ministry of Defence has disclosed data relating to an alleged person and his family in his file. That was the Department of Defense, so knock on the door. And I would like to ask you whether, based on what you said, you will be held accountable for the court-martial of the former Chief of Staff, who, by the way, is now the minister, who has been showing up on honvedelem.hu for years with a name, photo and activity interview with mission soldiers, who are also talking about their duties. So much for secrets. So I expect you to be court-martialed by the former Chief of Staff on this. Speaking of risks: Viktor Orbán has not yet been screened [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right!]] You've been avoiding national security screening for 28 years. I'm the one who made this happen. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Ghaith Pharaon how... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] ...did you come to Hungary? How did Zaid Naffa get into Hungary? Answer these. These are national security risks!
u2018-10-24-212	Congresswoman, your time frame is over. Thank you. [[Péter Ungár: Mr President, that stopped at 40 seconds! Intercoms from the opposition benches: Double Standard! Unbiased... 40 seconds! Applause from the opposition.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with post-meeting speeches. After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu applied for a speech entitled "Remembrance of Győző." I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-10-24-213	Mr President, Dear House, The capital is XV. I would like to commemorate one of the extraordinary citizens of your district here in the Parliament. In the days he would have spent his 78th year if he hadn't left us for ever, on 19 September, just a month, the national athlete, the winner of the Olympic and world championship Kulcsár. They say either good or good things about the dead, and everyone who knew him and remembered him is in a hurry to say that this graceful habit does not move him to say good and good things about Victor Kulcsár. He was indeed an extraordinary man, not only incredibly effective, but also beautifully fought, according to the experts. In the international life of the sport, it was mostly referred to as the Paganini of the duel, because it was actually used as an instrument with the blade. He first won the Olympic gold medal in Mexico City in 1968 in the history of Hungarian dueling. Four Olympic and three World Championships gold medals, and several silver and bronze medals won at world competitions. In 1980, he stopped active sports, worked as a coach, coach and sports coach. For two years, he was Secretary General of the Fencing Alliance, and for another eight years he was the federal captain of the fencing team. As a coach, he was no less successful than he was as a racer. Among his students Timea Nagy and Emese Szász are Olympic champions, Gábor Boczkó, world and European champion silver medalists, his nephew, Krisztián Kulcsár, world champion, Olympic silver medalist. He worked in Italy, and his student there became an Olympic and triple world champion. In 2000, he became a member of the Association of Immortal Hungarian Athletes, and in 2004 he became an athlete of the nation. He joined the Hungarian Olympic Committee in 2005, where he was elected to the presidency. This mandate was renewed in 2009. He was also awarded the Middle Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary and the Prima Primissima Prize. Two years ago, the 15th. I personally signed the Pro Urbe Budapest Award. He was legendary in his determination, his struggle. The Mexican Olympics were prepared with an abscess growing under their arm, but they didn't dare operate because they were afraid they wouldn't be able to fight. On the day before the competition, however, he was in such pain that at night the friend, the sports partner and doctor Jenő Kamuti cut the abscess. The next day, under his arm, he entered the pastries and won the Olympics. Four years later, in Munich, he was lame for the team finals, he fought with a bandaged, swollen ankle. In addition, one of the words against the Swiss was that his hand was injured. All of this, however, did not prevent him from helping the team victory here as well. He wasn't just one of the biggest athletes, he was one of the greatest as a human being. Those who knew his unbroken fidelity and uncompromisingness appreciated and appreciated him. During his long decades of career, his friend Jenő Kamuti, also world champion and Olympic silver medalist, said he had never strayed from the path he considered right. His relationship with the Fighting Alliance deteriorated due to the strength of principle, as I mentioned to the Alliance. Professionals do not get free hand in professional work was the subject of the debate. This is not my world, he said in 2012. He broke bread and resigned. As a result, he was also excluded from the Hungarian Olympic Committee, and the leadership of the Fighting Federation did not consider him suitable. The friendly Jenő Kamuti was obliged to tell us that she has pancreatic cancer and is seriously ill. Mr President, I wanted to commemorate a world-famous, highly successful Hungarian athlete. Thank you for the floor. [[15.10]]
u2018-10-24-214	Thank you very much for your memorial, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, also came forward after the agenda addressd the everyday life of Kaposvár Hospital. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-10-24-215	Thank you very much for the floor. This is not the first time in this room about the hospital in Kaposvár, we always get the answer to all the questions about the hospital in Kaposvár the previous time it was about the obstetrics that this hospital received, but in recent months we have received a lot of citizens' letters and one of them, which I would like to present here, which is that even though there are improvements that are announced, despite cutting through any number of tapes, there are amazing conditions for hospital infections and, in other respects, for the hospital in Kaposvár. A citizen who brought his father to the hospital in Kaposvár in the summer of 2017 because of the severity of Alzheimer's, reported amazing things to us in a letter. He said, for example, that after being there for a few weeks, more and more times their father was lying in his own urine or stool, and they were told that there was no diaper time; there were simply so few nurses that they could not serve the patients there properly. Then, the point is that during his stay, this elderly man has been diagnosed with several laboratory tests since he was in many cases with an unidentifiable hospital infection after the catheterization, but what is probably the best illustration of the conditions in the hospital is that when bed rests were found on this elderly man, and the sick family told the nurse that something should be done, the answer was that if they were to buy ointment at the pharmacy, the nurses would use it. We all know that members of this family, this elderly man, have paid for the health care for decades, he would have had to give it to him in his last months. The fact is, when this elderly man was nearing the end, they did not try to cure bad beds until they were in the nursing home, which indicated that he would take over, they did not have the opportunity to give him a life worthy of man. The fact is that there, although the citizen is saying very good things about what the otherwise underpaid caregivers in this nursing home have done, they have not been able to bring him to a state that could bring him out of hospital infections, and so this man has passed away. This citizen writes in the letter that he knew precisely that, in his old age, so that his mental state had deteriorated to his father, he would lose him sooner or later, but he said that he did not think that he would receive such inhuman treatment, and not only that he would be cured, but he would have to suffer even more serious infections, and he would normally go to a hospital, but my father would suffer even more suffering, and we would never be able to forgive the hospital. The fact is that this hospital is one of Hungary's worst hospitals in terms of both elderly care and obstetrics, despite the fact that both the mayor and the individual representative are constantly cutting through a tape that they find there, this does not solve the problem of why there is such an infection in the hospital in Kaposvár, why there is such an infection in the obstetrics, why there is such a small number of nurses working there for so little money, and why it is that the locals and this most important, people who have paid for the contribution for decades, have such a bad opinion of the hospital, so little wish that anyone's relatives should get there. I think that it is very important, whatever the Prime Minister has said here earlier, to know that it is a problem that must be dealt with in this House, if people who have paid for the health contribution for decades receive health services that they deserve, and people in Kaposvár hospital die in inhumane conditions. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2018-10-24-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[Dr. János Fónagy says no.]] No. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 29 October 2018. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
