u2018-06-05-0	Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Móring and Mr György Szilágyi will be taking part in the meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and to anyone who monitors our work. I would like to give a special welcome to my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai has applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Spies like us or you are real? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-05-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the Curia finally acquitted the defendants of the so-called spy trial. This failed one of the last conceptual trials of the political witch hunt called accountability. For ten years, you have prosecuted innocent people who have committed all their crimes not to work for Fidesz but for the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány. The court has declared everyone innocent. As Attorney General Péter Polt, the right-hand man of the Mafia state, destroyed the lives of innocent people on political grounds. I wouldn't agree to how toothy they would be without Péter Polt, even though the pro-government benches are still toothy; what corruption cases would cause him to be in half the gang prison. You know it, and we know it, everyone knows it, apart from a small part of the Hungarian people who kept it lying. But let's stick to the spy case. What did the Fidesz D.A. say in this case? That there's been Russian intelligence breach and data acquisition. Turns out everyone's innocent, never happened. In the meantime, let's see what happened in our little country in the shadow of the concept lawsuit. You've installed Kaspersky Lab's virus exterminator spying on the Russians on state computers, including your representatives' computers. Russian intelligence breach and data acquisition are now part of everyday life, thanks to you. I don't really hear and see Gyula Budai standing here yelling that there's going to be accountability, that there's been espionage. But let's just keep going. It was you who incorporated the Russian data acquisition software Yandex into the national consultation website. Thus, not only state secrets, but the personal data of the Fidesz voters are now in the hands of the Russian secret service. But let's keep going. Ferenc Katrein, former director of operations, spoke in the Hungarian press last year about the political repression of counterintelligence in Russian cases. The Russian services therefore have every right to feel free to walk and walk in Hungary. Dear Parliament, It must be said that in this country, it is not on the left that we should look for spies, but between you and the Orbán government. You are the one who delivered Hungary to the Russian secret services. You let Szilárd Kiss run, the visa manufacturer in Moscow, who, according to the press, could give a Hungarian passport to Russian criminals and spies. The case is about to re-introduce visa requirements against Hungarians by the United States of America, with so many Russian criminals and spies entering America with Hungarian passports. To this day, we do not know how many Russian spies came into Hungary with Antal Rogán's settlement bonds. Thus, a Russian spy may choose several solutions if he wishes to come to Hungary, you have laid a red carpet on them. But you also allowed István Győrkös, on the far right, to practice with the Russian military counterintelligence in Hungary. We know the consequences: Győrkös shot a Hungarian police officer. The outcast secret servant also talked about the fact that NATO partner services have practically nothing to say to Hungary, because in their eyes the Budapest government is equivalent to Moscow. They do not listen either, and we know what Hungary would say because they automatically consider it Russian disinformation. Here we go. Hungary, the Government of Hungary, is considered equal and equal by European intelligence with Russia. In the meantime, of course, the public news is coming from the Russian press, and Viktor Orbán is constantly pursuing an anti-European policy both at home and in the European Union. We understand the situation, honourable Members of the Fidesz. You did not sell Hungary for 30 pieces of silver, but for 30 rubles. You have sold state secrets, personal data, freedom and independence, neatly wrapped in a national ribbon, strictly on behalf of the ongoing national Christian freedom struggle. I'm not even gonna go with Paks II. He's been supplying the country to the Russians for decades. This is part of this package, but you know this for sure, and perhaps you know more than that, perhaps they are just the tip of the iceberg. Dear Parliament, I sincerely hope that someday there will be a real spy trial in Hungary that will be conducted by a real independent justice system. It is not a political-based concept lawsuit, but a real lawsuit that will reveal how many ways and for how much the country was sold to Hungary. The Democratic Coalition and I are going to work on this as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-06-05-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-05-3	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Intercoms: No sound!]]
u2018-06-05-4	Is the card in place, Mr. Secretary? [[For signal:]] Go ahead, Mr. Secretary, we'll wait and count the time. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2018-06-05-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, You are in a comfortable position in this case when we are talking about the Laborc-Galambos case here, criticizing the government's activities, that the government is not in a position, especially the wallet responsible for the justice system, that the specific operation of the courts [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] in an individual case, provide a rating. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The person sitting next to you was one of the reporters!]] We may, of course, have a political opinion on the judgments of the courts, the judges in the specific case, but at the same time on a counterintelligence case, in which we assume that there have been sufficiently smart people involved, and in covering up the tracks not only in this case, but also in other cases, we can think of subway four or others. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What does the spy trial have to do with this? The president's ringing the bell.]] in cases of corruption which you have done, there is practically no easy situation between the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office, and the court can only do so in case of complete evidence. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai, false accusation.]] I'm gonna have to give you a restraining order. Making total proof equal to innocence is a strong exaggeration, let's face it, even at our age. [[Gergely Arató: This is the principle of criminal law...]] And as for us, they're getting away with it, and we can't prove it on you, it doesn't mean that accountability was an unnecessary initiative, it was a moral obligation for the Fidesz-KDNP government that came to government in 2010. That's a different question than I mentioned. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The whole procedure was classified!]] how it can be managed in a procedure. Not to mention the fact that the proceedings had to be carried out according to the rules applied by you at the time, not the more stringent laws adopted later. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] And according to stricter procedural rules, because this is also a criminal law principle, you may know that. So they created a framework by which they could be relieved of responsibility, and now they proudly proclaim that you are innocent, and at the same time we know that the main issue was, for example, the screening of members of the Hungarian secret service with Russian people disguised as Bulgarians. [[Németh Szilárd István: There is also a record of this!]] And there's a record of that. That the court did not consider this to be of such weight that personal responsibility could be demonstrated [[István Szilárd Németh: Let's make it public!]] He could've put it on one person and condemned it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Still guilty?]] That doesn't relieve you of your political responsibility. The other question is that these cases are very good for you to cover up the series of failures that were committed against Hungary in those eight years. [[9.10]] Thousands of billions of IMF loans that this government had to repay [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What does this have to do with the Russians?]] because they were only hired for three years, they managed to raise the government debt to 83% of GDP, and the budget deficit was approaching in 2006 [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] they managed to produce 10 percent, 7 percent economic downturn in 2009, with 11.2% unemployment in the country, this meant a quarter of a million more workers than they had in 2002, so we had to create new jobs for so many unemployed people - they took a month's pension from pensioners and a month's wages from public servants, and during left-wing governance they doubled the cost of electricity and tripled the price of gas. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Secretary of State, this is embarrassing. We should talk about the Russians.]] It's really one of those certificates. [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] What we need to hide, which is why we need to create cases, find cases, and take out now, after eight years, a failed accountability case, on which you can boast that we have not done our job properly in this area. I am not satisfied either, but I am not satisfied with the government, but I am satisfied with the regulatory system on which you may have done so, and by the fact that neither the prosecution nor the court has been able to deal with this with the right power. [[Gergely Arató: Cancel the Attorney General!]] and to set an example in these matters to discourage your comrades from such operations for the future. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The comrades, they are there!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-6	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us agree on a statute, which indicates that I do not remember when Mr Secretary of State intervened while she was speaking. I think we should honor each other by listening. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's not a matter of respect! It's a parliamentary genre!]] There has been a continuous dialogue, Congresswoman, this is not a dialogue. They answer to each other, find out who's talking. Thank you. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, has also applied for a pre-meeting speech:. What does the government do for sustainability? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-05-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today is World Environment Day and today is the end of the European Sustainability Week. Over the past week, nearly 5,000 events have been organised in Europe's 30 countries, with the aim of raising awareness, promoting the substance, content and presenting concrete sustainability projects. There have been dozens of events in Hungary in the last week. It is a very important initiative, but given the state of our planet, today we need 52 sustainability weeks a year. The deepening ecological crisis is now felt by all of us, hundreds of years of hot records are falling, roads are suddenly washed away by rain, domestic markets are filled with chemicalized, tasteless vegetables, and the seas are covered with plastic trash. Droughts and floods replace each other incalculably, the soil dies rapidly, and if the soil remains so, some research shows that it will run out in 60 years. These increasing environmental problems are a sign of what our planet and we are suffering from, and this is much more than environmental protection. Sustainability, which is the main objective of eco-policy, is a much more complex issue. It links the issue of the environment with economic and social issues and sees them as a system. Environmental conditions have now become limited due to over-use of resources and pollution of our environment, which affects global and local processes from the economy through society. The Hungarian governments have accumulated serious debt by implementing neoliberal policy, which promotes the universality of the market, which revives the future, rather than voting alongside predictable, sustainable, long-term social and economic policies. Fidesz picks up right where his predecessors left off. He's always looking for the favors of multinational companies, and the only thing that's important is making a profit, not caring about what they're leaving behind. Moreover, they need the cheaply trained workforce, even though the key to the future is high added value... the preservation and development of local resources, the strengthening of local economies and, not least, innovation. If the government took sustainability aspects seriously and planned the budget accordingly, defined its policy priorities, we would be in a completely different Hungary in a few years: poverty would be reduced and the economy would be more stable. The LMP as an ecopolitical party would build the economy on local businesses. The Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector is organically linked to the local economy, doing value-creating work, creating jobs locally, and surely we can count on them. They won't leave the country overnight. We would like a Hungary of local communities where the proportion of locally produced goods is as high as possible, and not South American and Far Eastern goods are bought in shopping malls in nearby cities; places where local communities use renewable energy that is best suited to the conditions there, heating the streets in well-insulated houses and community spaces, not Russian gas, or expensive and dangerous nuclear-powered climates cool some people's glass palaces. Dear Parliament, The debate on next year's budget is about to begin. Let's finally plan responsibly, enforce sustainability aspects while we still can. Our planet is constantly overused, and there will come a point where there is nothing we can do. We have one planet, and we cannot continue a way of life that constantly uses more than one and a half planets of resources. Dear Parliament, The future of Hungary is guaranteed if we are able to think responsibly instead of free market logic; if we do not want to increase social differences, but to reduce them; if we want a fair and visionary country and not to live up to our environment. We want to live in a society where not few people are rich from the work of many, but everyone has the opportunity to live better than the previous generation. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-05-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-05-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Sustainability is a national issue according to our intentions and actions, and the government is committed to giving Hungary the right answers to the sustainable economic and social challenge. Hungary's Government's determination to give special attention to sustainability through the transformation of the governance structure, a special State Secretary responsible for coordinating, preparing decisions and monitoring the implementation processes of the government's actions and objectives. The priority structural focus on sustainability is in line with the international work prepared in recent years, resulting in the adoption of the new 2030 Agenda, the new Sustainable Development Framework at the 70th General Meeting of the United Nations on 25 September 2015. The core of the global programme is the SDGs. The national implementation of these objectives concerns the tasks of all ministries and government institutions, and the fulfilment of the commitments adopted by our country in 2015. This is why it is important to ensure consistency between the policy objectives set by the wallets. The preparation and approval of the National Voluntary Report to take stock and evaluate the progress made in the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in New York in July 2018 by the UN institutions and its Member States is also a priority. [[9.20]] In Hungary, energy efficiency improvements and renewable energy targets are defined by the European Union's target system for 2020 and 30, on the basis of which Hungary adopted three renewable energy and energy efficiency strategies and policies: the national energy strategy 2030, the renewable energy recovery and action plan 2020 and the fourth national energy efficiency action plan adopted last year. The three strategies aim to identify future development directions in the areas concerned and to ensure that the 2020 and 2030 targets are met. The Renewable Energy Support Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council set binding national targets for 2020 in line with the EU 2020 strategy. According to this, Hungary should achieve a 13 per cent share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2020. Hungary has set a more ambitious target in its renewable energy recovery action plan, which voluntarily increased the domestic target to more than 14 per cent and 14.65 per cent. According to the latest available data, Hungary achieved 14.19 percent in 2016, thus reaching its national voluntary target for 2020. This proves that the expectations that you have formulated are taken by the government and are actually incorporated into your policy, your economic policy, your energy policy. So, according to the figures, Hungary is also on the right track to achieve the climate protection objectives. As a result of the resources in the operational programmes, over HUF 760 billion of reimbursable and non-reimbursable aid was allocated to the energy developments for the 2014-2020 years. In the framework of the Home Gay Programme launched in autumn 2014, for example, the tender schemes announced aim to provide people with rapid, appropriate intensity of non-refundable support throughout the country. Using the grants, the efficiency of public energy consumption has improved significantly, reducing the domestic CO2 emissions to a large extent, thereby contributing to the achievement of the domestic climate protection and energy efficiency targets. The total energy modernisation of nearly 203 thousand households has been made possible by the previous sub-programmes, with a total value of nearly HUF 31 billion, and a number of energy and energy efficiency investments are under way, which do not reach people directly, but indirectly, through institutions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: 7 years, seven amendments. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-06-05-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the seventh time now, Fidesz is preparing to amend the Basic Law, which is otherwise granite-solid. It may be a record, although if we look at the United States, the Constitution has been amended twenty-seven times, but I would like to say that in 229 years. This is when the lawyer comes out of the congressman, because it is a fundamental document, the amendment of the Fundamental Law. I remember, and obviously my fellow Members with a law degree also remember what we learned at the university. We have learned that the law rules over those exercising public authority. The rule of law, the rule of law, is a legal institution of Anglo-Saxon origin, but it is an important fundamental value of the democratic rule of law. This is what you regularly do, not only through the amendment of the basic law, but also through other amendments to legislation, are constantly attacking and kicking off. They also say in legal circles that you have made the law a servant's daughter of politics. Let's look at these modifications. The first amendment of the basic law regulated the Constitutional Court when it applied the rule of law. He was stripped of his powers, and later, not by the amendment of the basic law, but by your party soldiers. The second amendment would have been the election registration if it had been successful. The third amendment was a complete transformation of land ownership, the result of which we can see, as the world's richest and the world's richest gas mechanic has become such land estates that he may now be one of Hungary's largest landowners. The fourth amendment was about counter-opinioning, since the laws which the Constitutional Court considered to be unconstitutional, provisions were laid down in the Fundamental Law and the applicability of the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court was abolished. The fifth amendment was about a small reparation, since, at international pressure, the regulation of the transfer of court cases was finally abolished, but they created the basic legal conditions for the Hungarian National Bank to merge with the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions, the result of which we saw in two years later, in 2015, as the Quaestor scandal was inevitable for the failure to supervise the Hungarian National Bank. Less than a few hundred billion forints were lost, and tens of thousands of victims had no access to his money. The amendment to the Sixth Basic Law served as clear propaganda steels. So, overall, we can say that you have achieved and implemented your political goals by amending the basic law, the purpose of which is to break the rule of law and put it in the service of your policy. During the seventh amendment, I recall my studies again. There was a seminar in Pécs that was legislative. From this seminar material let me quote a sentence:. The law is created in a logically arranged, linguistically defined and fixed form, clear, understandable and in accordance with the rules of the Hungarian language, recognizable, transparent and predictable. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If we look at this basic law amendment, this salad law, it's a wrinkle compared to that. But that is not the problem, but let us remember the words of the Prime Minister, the former Soros Scholar Prime Minister, before the elections, who said that he would take legal action, there will be legal consequences for the opposition. At the time, as opposition representatives, we thought that he must be thinking of us, but it turned out that, no, the Prime Minister's target is the independent justice system in Hungary. This had precedents, since we can remember that during the first Orbán government, the courts were not allowed to set up, at the disposal of the aforementioned Fundamental Law, the establishment of the National Court of Justice, the head of which was a party soldier, forced retirements, or the intention of creating the administrative court that is now being proposed by a half law. It is clear from this proposal that you want to establish a judicial system, a court that will be loyal, a court that is loyal to Fidesz, sometimes involving government officials, which is also a forum for redress for decisions taken by all authorities and states, such as requests for data in the public interest. So perhaps we could not have known the abuses of the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank or the anomalies at the Hungarian Post Office. So you are again attacking the rule of law, again committing an assassination, which is shameful, shameful. That is why we will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-05-12	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-05-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, By adopting the new Fundamental Law in 2011, the Parliament settled an old debt. You didn't tell me about these history. If he hadn't, Hungary would still have a basic law, constitution, which was adopted in 1949 and only amended in 1989. History is worth exploring in this sense. This Fundamental Law laid down important principles that you did not speak of. For example, he introduced a debt brake, which was also important because Hungary's debt grew from 50 to a few percent at your time to 83 percent. Under the Fundamental Law, women, older people and people with disabilities are now given special protection. You refer to these things, but this Parliament, this majority of governments, was the one that included this in the Fundamental Law. [[9.30]] The protection of minorities, the protection of sign language, as well as the absence of GMOs, has also been included, and child rearing has also been granted constitutional protection. So I can tell you briefly that this Fundamental Law has stood the test of time, regardless of the political and ideological debates surrounding its adoption. I could also say that there is no fundamental law of a European country that so many organisations, so many institutions, as many politicians would have looked at in detail than the Hungarian Fundamental Law. So this Fundamental Law really stood the test of time. In the end, you stated the point, namely that you do not support this amendment, although you have wrapped your position nicely. But in that sense, your press conference yesterday is in order. You are not in favour of this fundamental law amendment. In this regard, I would like to say that if there is a reason for the tragic left-wing election results, then it is that you are always opposed to the will of the Hungarians, whether it be the protection of jobs or tax cuts, the protection of national industry, you are defying the points of agreement that have been established in Hungary in recent years. And there's no way to build a victory on that, many, many failures more than that. And now they are attacking a constitutional amendment aimed at strengthening security and which is a clear consequence of the results of the April elections. The point is that this amendment would prohibit the introduction of the foreign population into Hungary, so it would protect against the resettlement quota. There has been such a proposal, you remember it in 2016, then you denied even the existence of a quota during the referendum campaign, and then voted quietly in Brussels. Last November, when we had to vote on this in the European Parliament, your representatives voted in favour. And as far as I can tell, they're still trying to deny it. So even though millions of people in Hungary have said in recent years in consultations, in referendums and in the last election that they do not want quotas, this leaves the left uninterested; it is only because they support it. That's the point, everything else is just legal bullshit and evacuation. On the basis of their resolution yesterday, we also know that the Stop Soros legislative package is not being supported, so they are taking the side of those who organise and promote illegal immigration in Hungary. By the way, as regards your proposals on the right of assembly regarding the current proposal for a constitutional amendment, it is strange that you are bringing this up. When the MSZP was a former government, it was not even possible to mark it in Parliament. They've surrounded Parliament with cordons. Today, this can be done freely, there was a protest yesterday. And when, by the way, the left was on the steering wheel, they protected it with rubber bullets, not democracy, but their own power. So much for the right of assembly. You know very well that there is no threat to the right of assembly in Hungary, and anyone can say their opinion in the future, as they have already said; of course, except for the period of left-wing governance, when this was not the case. So we also see from these reactions that the left has a very difficult time processing his own electoral defeat. We could also say that this is a matter of the left. It's also their internal affairs that they're busy with each other, with their own internal positions. We have every right to ask what would have happened if you hadn't given it to me, God, you have a government opportunity. Would they still stab each other in the back every day? So the whole thing is that the left continues right where he left off, and it seems that there are not as many electoral failures as there are left-wing electoral failures that would make them understand that the Hungarians consider security and security of the country more important than anything else. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-05-14	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, Jobbik Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the tasks ahead. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-06-05-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, An outside viewer would be directly dizzy by the ideological hairpin turns and wrigglings described by Fidesz on the political track for the last 27 years. From a wild liberal party, which denies Christian and national values wildly, the former party SZDSZ became a conservative bourgeois party by the end of the '90s. Then the illiberal ideology was placed on their flag, so that as we learned a month ago from Viktor Orbán's seat booking, they could return to the ideology of Christian democracy. But your policy, Fidesz policy, is far from Christian democracy. For some time now, your politics has been nothing but the production of enemy images, and their policy is based on envy, hatred and fear. The ideological background, as we know, is just a political product for you, a marketing stunt and only communication. Let us look at the essence of the Christian democracy in Europe. This policy focuses on the separation of solidarity, freedom, subsidiarity and powers. After World War II, the various governments in Europe created a social market economy, the essence of which was that no one was left on the side of the road. Compared to this, your policy is to embrace only your own party mates, your vassals, based on political and party loyalty. The social and economic policy of Fidesz is focused on an anti-poor policy, and the people at the bottom of the hierarchy are not given any solidarity. Your politics is not about them. The subsidiarity principle is also at the heart of Christian democracy, and the whole European Union is built on it, which states that fewer states and more societies are needed. State intervention must be limited or kept to a minimum, and the State is only needed where it should be and where the various social policy considerations so require. The principle of subsidiarity is to rely on the civil sphere and on the local authorities, and the power of Viktor Orbán is the power of the state above all. Orbán is disturbed by civil society, is disturbed by independent organisations and is disturbed by decentralisation. Obviously, you're preparing to do this, and you're about to introduce an all-inclusive centralization in the administration, and you're preparing for a complete liquidation of the local government. The same applies to the separation of powers, the prosecution and the Constitutional Court, after the einstantisation of the independence of the courts, we can experience every day what Parliamentarianism means to you. There has been a complete abolition of freedom of expression in the media in recent years. To sum up, Christian democracy is just another ideological, political product for you to cover up your authoritarian governance. Jobbik, on the other hand, is the only strong and stable opposition party that stops your self-indulgent, with 1.3 million voters' trust, and on the basis of a solid programme, we represent the interests of 10 million of our compatriots and 15 million Hungarian interests in Parliament. Jobbik is a Social People's Party, which has also put the existential issue on its flag in addition to the protection from migration, and intends to provide existential protection for our fellow Hungarians. In the homeland, prosperity is at the heart of our policy. We are putting the wage issue at the heart of our programme, which aims to eliminate the impossible situation that most young people are already emigrating or thinking about Hungary. The country is heading for a demographic disaster, poverty, debt, foreign currency loans are currently characteristic of Hungarian society. For the restoration of competitiveness, home creation and cross-border Hungarians, autonomy is at the heart of our policy. These are the tasks ahead of us, which Jobbik will represent irresistibly over the next four years. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.40]]
u2018-06-05-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me start with a brief remark. Speaking of hairpins, I think that's the term they used. [[Márton Gyöngyösi:]] Those guys from the guard vests to Agnes Heller, that's pretty steep. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] He mentioned a number of criticisms here, it is very difficult to distinguish them from any left-wing speech. That means the new cycle will be just like the previous cycle. However, I would like to respond to your specific claims regarding people in need and poverty. Between 2012 and 2017, the proportion of people at risk of poverty decreased by 730,000, not least thanks to the creation of more than 700,000 new jobs in Hungary. We believe that the fastest way out of poverty is to have a job, so we're on this path. I'm sorry you didn't mention that. Just as he did not mention that energy prices had fallen by 25 percent, nor that pensions had increased on several occasions, the elderly received a pension premium. Nor did he mention that the government has provided assistance on several occasions to foreign exchange lenders, many of which you have not voted for. I have not heard any concrete proposals from which we can start in the near future, but at the same time I think it is very appropriate that all parliamentary parties draw up their own goals in this way, at the beginning of the term, and, if possible, set targets that go beyond the four-year term. So allow me, on behalf of the government, to mention some of these goals, and in this respect it is not irrelevant that you are in the emerging phase of Hungary today, and we have every hope that this will remain so. This is also indicated by the fact that things are going in the right direction in Hungary according to more Hungarians than ever before. That doesn't mean there's not much to do yet. Noting that Jobbik has his own agenda, I'd like to highlight a few government intentions, say, five. First of all, we want to get even closer to full employment. Unemployment has fallen from 12 to 4 percent, you may know that very well, but we would like to go further down, as long as there is even one person in Hungary who would like to work, but cannot. Even one's a lot. Jobs require higher wages. One of the tools for this is to reduce taxes, to further reduce employers' taxes, for example. On the other hand, it must be facilitated by investments that have an even greater added value. Not least, it is also necessary to increase the export share of domestic-owned companies. Thirdly, we would like to strengthen the Hungarian families further. We have some serious results here. The number of marriages has increased significantly in recent years, and the willingness to have children is increasing, but we want to achieve more. That is why the government is considering expanding the family support system, so, as already announced, there will be consultation on how this is done. Fourthly, growth without unimaginable security, and this is not just a fight against illegal immigration. You referred to that. I'm just asking why you didn't vote for the anti-quota amendment in 2016, closed by parentheses. [[Márton Gyöngyösi's intervention.]] So security is not only a fight against illegal immigration, but also a question of defence, for example, because our historical experience shows that a nation that cannot guarantee its own protection is otherwise making a big mistake in the long run. And if we can deliver results in these four goals, then we can add a fifth, and that is the intention of participating in the renewal of Europe. We could leave the attitude of being small behind us, and it is no exaggeration to say that Hungary's voice is now being given more attention in Europe than it would come from our size. By the way, I think it is worth living with, and we will continue to stand up for Europe to defend the cultural and economic performance that has made it the best place in the world over the centuries, because we really have no reason to give up on ourselves. And in this effort, we want to continue to rely on national funds, which, by the way, is against the utopia of open society. So in a nutshell, Your Honour, these would be our goals. We are working for a country that everyone can be proud of, which is worth living, living and working in. We don't want anything less than that, and we won't. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-05-18	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In response to his speech before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, PM Group, asked for the Parliament. It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-05-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The people's language considers that the faces of pro-government representatives are rather thick. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The opposition's thicker!]] Compared to this, they show a surprising sensitivity when, here in Parliament, my fellow Members and I sometimes speak the truth or use unsearched words. Yesterday, my fellow Member, Mr. Peter, indicated his disquiet over the need to speak in front of many criminals...
u2018-06-05-20	Congressman! Again, I must warn you, your first sentence was strong enough, I let it go. Please hold yourself to speaking at the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Noise.]]
u2018-06-05-21	And I, acting as an aggravating circumstance in my sermon, indicated that the Prime Minister, the so-called Prime Minister, was at least specific in his relationship to power. After that, there was quite a stir on the side of the governing parties... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Wow, how brave! What a cool guy.]] I'll listen to you. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Style is man!]] So they acted as if these speeches would destroy the authority of Parliament, the dignity of Parliament. I would like to tell you what has really destroyed the authority of Parliament over the last eight years. He was devastated by the fact that you were sworn to the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary and then destroyed the Republic and destroyed the Constitution. It was replaced by a Fundamental Law which did not receive the support of any opposition representative, nor did it obtain the support of the majority of the Hungarian people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Dialogue! Millions of people voted for him!]] You have adopted a single-key tax law that took 150 thousand forints a year from millions of employees; this has not helped to raise the authority and popularity of Parliament. You cut the powers of the Constitutional Court and then, a few years later, you filled it with party soldiers to prevent it from performing its constitutional protection function. Again, it's something that has destroyed the authority of the Parliament. You here nationalised private pension funds, took away the savings of 3 million people, that's what's destroying the authority of the Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári's intervention.]] An election law which benefits only Fidesz has been set up; it is again destroying the authority of the Parliament. I continue: the traffic law was also adopted here, among the walls of the Parliament, which again did not help to strengthen the dignity of the House, the more the payment of the Fidesz clientship. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: Election result!]] It was welcomed here, thus destroying the authority of the Parliament, nationalization of schools and the reduction of the age of compulsory education, which, in addition to ruining the future of generations, is again destroying the authority of the Parliament. It was accepted here that György Matolcsy, as central bank president, could rob hundreds of billions of forints of public money. Here they accept the accounts of Péter Polt, whose activities are limited to protecting the interests of fidesz criminals or persons who appear to be. This is where tailor-made laws were adopted that served to enrich fidesz oligarchs, such as the casino law for Andy Vajna. This is where Antal Rogán's various brain lesions, such as the settlement policy, were adopted, or was voted to set up the propagandaistery here. These are all things that harm the authority of the Parliament. And now they are preparing to set up the Fidesz courts, thereby further impairing the remaining autonomy of the last independent branch of power. Once again, this will erode the authority of the Parliament very harshly. The fact is, my fellow Members, that you consider the National Assembly of the Republic of Hungary to be a playground for power technology. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've been elected three times, man!]] Instead of giving room to meaningful, meaningful debates. For my part, on the part of the Dialogue, but I believe that on the part of the entire opposition, I can say that we would be very happy to be partners in restoring the authority of Parliament, but this begins with you apologizing and correcting the damage of the last eight years and finally returning the ground to meaningful, meaningful, constructive parliamentary debates. Thank you very much. [[There's a lot of applause and noise from the benches of opposition parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gyula Molnár applauded!]]
u2018-06-05-22	Dear Parliament, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[9.50]]
u2018-06-05-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, You've said a lot for a single-percent party rep we've just heard. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] But perhaps it can be concluded that you have actually taken on board the events of the last eight years, the important laws that we have adopted, which have improved the position of the electorate, including the tax reduction; if I understand correctly, you are in the process of raising taxes, so you would like us to raise taxes. Of course, there are false claims, because if you read the Fundamental Law, at the beginning it is that the state form of Hungary is a republic, so anyone who claims that we are not living in a republic disputes the condition of the Fundamental Law. Perhaps I will bring a copy to the next meeting, perhaps some help to the Member to discuss the same thing when we speak between the walls of this House. On the other hand, the 2018 election took place in the light of all these facts and results. At the parliamentary elections in 2018, the majority of the government received a two-thirds majority in 2010 and 2014. In the light of all these facts, voters have decided that they like it, that it is a work worth continuing, and they expect us to achieve further results. All that you have mentioned, for example, the question of raising taxes - I think it will still not be a win-win election campaign issue, but we wish you to continue it this way, because in practice we can continue as we are doing now, or as we have done in the past period. Regarding the electoral law: before there was an election law, the majority of the government was able to obtain two thirds, now there is another electoral law, now it has been able to obtain two thirds. So those of you who have the social support can now debate the proportion of this, but you do not even have that ratio - they can form a government, or they can gain a two-thirds majority. It's up to the voters, I'll tell you this secret, you have to convince them, you have to keep in touch with them, you may have to go down to the countryside, as you did at the end of the campaign, when you found out that you might have to notice people in the countryside, and let's say you don't blame the village population for the injustice of life, and you don't understand the great redeeming, progressive thoughts here, and then you figure out this Bolshevik concept that we are the majority; we already know that comrades Lenin used it. So it is a bit of a stylish mix that you are presenting in this debate, but we love this debate, because it is easy for voters to understand, as the results have shown. What was also mentioned was the nationalization of schools, for example. What does that mean for you? We're training state cadets there? There are practically the same schools, the same teachers teach, there is only one difference: they earn the same in both Mátészalka and Budapest, because it is not the wealth of a local government that depends on its ability to appreciate teachers. We have been able to establish a career as a teacher behind these changes, and the wages of teachers have increased by 50 percent over the past period, and not by bringing inflation right to their necks, not by ending in an economic crisis, but by demonstrably increasing year after year. I think we should be proud of that. At the same time, the possibility of further education is open to all, and higher education is open to all. By lowering the age limit, we dealt with a problem that, let's say, primary schools couldn't handle before. Wide sections of voters understand this type of regulation, understand the need for it, and have not punished us for it. So that's really all I can say about the proposals. Courts. In relation to the courts, we have repeatedly said that the amendment of the Fundamental Law now includes the establishment of an administrative superior court, so I understand the suggestion, and you reject the amendment of the Fundamental Law, of course, including the immigration package, which is about preventing immigration. But there has always been a judicial self-government in Hungary since 1990, and judges who have been put up for appointment have always been appointed within the framework of self-administration. No one told me that this would change in the future. The fact that an organisationally high administrative court, which existed until 1949, is re-established, recalling our historical traditions and adapting to the examples that exist in the majority of the other EU Member States, which, in my view, means nothing to go back or even progress. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-24	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, MEP Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP Group has asked for the family to be the foundation of the Christian Democratic future. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-05-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The focus of Christian Democratic politics is always on communities. We believe that the strengthening of communities and belonging to the community will help the country, the nation and the people in it. Our important goal and this has shown in support of events, festivals, camps, campsites, community-building organizations and churches in recent years - that young people who are looking for it find communities that are valuable not only for self-serving but also for others. The foundations of communities are the smallest community, the family, which is also the foundation of the future for us. We regard the family as a value-making and value-bearing unit, which must be protected, supported and helped. This is also true of all Hungarians who need it. It is an important principle for us Christian democrats that Hungary, based on strong families, national values and human dignity, must in particular protect and help our vulnerable countrymen, such as people with disabilities, children and the elderly. In the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance in recent years, we have been working on one of the main goals of strengthening families is to give parents and future parents as much support as possible to have children and raise them. That's how we got to the point where the government declared 2018 the year of families. Hungary's Fundamental Law, which has been mentioned more than once today, correctly stated that, I quote: "Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a man and a woman, a community of life formed by voluntary decision, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the basis of this guidance, the Fidesz-KDNP government reorganized family policy after Balliberal governments wanted to relativity the concept of family, their austerity always affected families and did not consider it important to strengthen families as communities. The representatives of MSZP and the then SZDSZ all supported the introduction of tuition fees in Hungary. Families with small children were hit by a reduction in the duration of the child's payment from three to two years, by abolishing the Socpol, and by removing the subsidised housing loans. When making their decisions, they were not looking after the interests of Hungarian families, but were trying to serve Brussels and foreign interests. The construction of a family-friendly country has become a tangible reality over the last eight years, and a number of positive measures have also been taken in this area. The budget for family support in 2010 is now double in 2018, nearly HUF 2000 billion. The Gyed extra, the home-building discount, the family tax allowance, the tax relief of newlyweds, the expansion of cradle seats are just a few elements in the line, which were aimed at strengthening families and giving birth to the desired children. In the meantime, we have seen a social shift: as a result of the change in public thinking, fertility rates have increased, divorces and abortions have decreased, and the number of marriages has increased. There is a significant shift, but it is not enough, as there is still room for an ideal ratio above 2. The position of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance is clear: instead of immigrants, we want to support the Hungarian families more and more so that we can create an environment where each couple can make their own decisions about having children and where the desired children can always be born. We have many results behind us, but we also have a lot of work to do on this, as demography is the number one national destiny issue. Therefore, it would be particularly important if the opposition supported the measures and draft laws in this regard instead of attacking the government in all forums and would contribute constructively to the resolution of the case, as it is above the parties. The Christian Democratic People's Party and its faction want to be active in social policy innovation, strengthening national pride and Christian identity for the next four years. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-05-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Living in Hungary is good, and to make life in Hungary even better, I think that strengthening families is a very important task for the governments of the time. [[10.00]] As you pointed out, there were governments in Hungary who were separated from families; that when there was a problem in the budget, they thought that they would reach out to the support of families, because the ability of families to assert their interests was considered to be low, while multinational companies or international organisations were more attached to them. For this reason, they left the various profits of large utility companies or the higher revenues of other companies intact, and instead took from Hungarian families the forints that were missing from the Hungarian budget because of bad economic policy. In 2010, there was a radical turnaround in this area. We represent the Hungarian people. Those who enter Parliament with different machinations cling to the post-communist successor party and try to get into the parliamentary ranks, for example. [[Gergely Harvesto: Election!]] They have fewer contacts with voters, less legitimizing them, and they are easier to become prisoners of international networks or economic groups. But we, most of whom have been elected in individual districts, who live among the voters our daily lives, and we represent the interests of the people. For if Members of Parliament do not represent the interests of the people, then there is no one else in society, because trade unions, chambers of commerce and so on represent only the interests of certain parts, but we are those who are the depositary of the country's full interest. That is why we said that it is in the interests of Hungarian families first, and anyone can have any plan for mass immigration, increasing the burden on families, we do not accept this, because we believe that the future is in Hungarian families. Because the more people grow up in Hungarian families, the more important it will be not only for them to have patriotism, which the Member referred to, but also for the family to learn how to live with freedom and responsibility in a country, in a nation. That is why it was important that we tried to eliminate the various restrictions that the socialists had made, such as taking away a year's worth of children, and we gave them back. They took away the family tax relief, and we expanded its system. They took the Socpol, we introduced the CHOK. This is also the result of the fact that 4.7 percent of the total national product is now spent on families in the form of various benefits and benefits, which is also leading in Europe. We do not want to spend a lot on immigration in proportion to GDP, but on Hungarian families. The family tax and contribution allowance is an average savings of HUF 253 thousand per year for each family. So far, 74 754 families of CSOK have received funding from Hungary, with HUF 212 billion in support. He used 70 billion of these to buy apartments, 139 billion to build new apartments or buy new apartments. This can be felt and seen throughout the country, if you travel around the country, how many new family homes are being built in smaller and larger settlements. We reduced the housing tax, made it reimbursable. With the job protection action plan, we provided 35 000 mothers with a tax discount of HUF 42 billion to return to the world of work after childbirth. With the ged extra, the benefits can now be taken at the same time, in parallel with several children, the restrictions have been lifted so that they cannot be used after the child's six months of age. With your student and graduate, we tried to help those who had children when they were in college. Now the child is up to the age of two. We also introduced tax incentives for newlyweds, with free meals and free textbooks for family members. We try to make the day-to-day placement of children easier and more effective for working parents with new kindergarten types, miniborades, family day-care centers, day-care centers. Overall, as the Member said, it meant a surplus of HUF 1000 billion in eight years in the budget for 2018. The tax relief of two children has increased again this year, and will continue to grow again next year. In housing loans, three and more children can reimburse one million forints per child. But we also help those who have difficulty with having a baby, because in the flask program not only five, but also four or four cycles of additional children are funded by the state, and we have also greatly increased social security support for the various medicines to be used. This is how we can say that Hungary is an increasingly homelier and more livable country, so if we look at statistics from different countries, according to the UN statement, how many people live and work abroad, much more people live and work abroad than Hungary, if I look at the Polish number, several times if I look at the Romanian number, but the number of people living abroad is higher for Portugal, Ireland or even for all the Baltic countries, because Hungary is becoming a more family-friendly country and a more and more livable country. This is what we want to confirm in the year of families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Hende, Vice-President of Parliament, Chairman of the Legislative Committee, applied for a pre-meeting speech on the influence of the courts. It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-06-05-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Nearly 300 years ago, due to the work of the great French philosopher Montesquieu, the idea of separation of powers has become the cornerstone of state-of-law thinking, in which the independence of the judiciary is an important cornerstone. The worrying news that György Soros and his network say contradict this at all. [[Defiance in the dialogue.]] He wants to gain influence over Hungarian justice by means of paid political activists calling themselves civilians who want to influence the thinking of our judges, disguised as training, and infiltrating them. I find it worrying that the Soros disguise will give Hungarian judges and judicial staff so-called sensitizing trainings to advise legal cases and lawsuits concerning immigration and asylum and the issue of hate crimes, and certainly represent migrants effectively. The Soros network, as with legal assistance and representation to illegal migrants, strengthens migration by doing so. It is working to ensure that as many people are able to enter Europe as possible and to prevent the expulsion of those already illegally admitted. This, in addition to going against the will of the Hungarian people, threatens the independence of the judiciary and national security. In order to clarify the situation, last week I asked the President of the National Court of Justice for information in the public interest, so that it was clear to all of us exactly who, from what source and for what purpose such education was organised for the Hungarian judges. Although I have not yet received detailed answers to my specific questions, it was clear from the quick reaction and written letter of the National Court Office that, in addition to others, the Hungarian Helsinki Committee associated with György Soros participated in the further training procedure of the Hungarian judges. According to the National Court of Justice's communication, attacks on the part of certain civil society organisations and subpoenas on foreign power factors have been reported several times over the past period. The former tried to put pressure on Hungarian justice in ongoing cases. In recent years, organisations linked to the Soros network have been sued either directly with the Hungarian State or indirectly, even in the context of proceedings against an illegal immigrant. It's enough to think about the famous Ahmed H. case. In the latter case, they also tried to put pressure on the Hungarian courts as part of a memorable media campaign. It is quite clear that a very large and cross-cutting network is working to deploy a population in Europe that causes serious difficulties, taking into account both cultural and social aspects. However, we already think it is outrageous that immigration organisations, in addition to political expression, have the means to influence the functioning of independent courts, despite the fact that the Hungarian people have democratically and clearly declared their will against illegal migration on a number of occasions. Dear Parliament, Once the National Court Office has been provided, it must be clear to everyone that the Soros organisations will not be afraid of anything when it comes to immigration. [[Gergely Harvester: The enemy has set foot.]] However, we have a common goal to stand up for the independence of justice and the sovereignty of our country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.10]]
u2018-06-05-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear House, Indeed, Montesquieu was the beginning of the theory of disintegrating the branches of power, which, we know, requires the separation of the legislators, the executives and the judicial authorities, so that the authorities of the state can function separately for the constitutional functioning of each country. What has happened since then has changed the picture substantially, because, when we look at the developments in today's world, we can clearly see that either the press or the organisations that have spoken to organised civil society are also acting as a power factor. But we can also list the world of the Internet [[Interventions from the opposition benches, so Gergely Arató: Ban him! The president will have his glass jogged.]] which has not been an influence factor in the past. I would like to respond to DK shouting: today we are discussing, for example, the GDPR or even the large networks that do not respect the fundamental rights of persons, how they can be internationally controlled. So if you question that, then you don't keep up with reality. Returning to the question of judicial independence and the separation of the jurisdiction of the judge, it is essential that judicial integrity be inviolable. However, this must not only be respected by the executive authority, so it is not just the Ministry of Justice, whose representative I am speaking to, or the government who must respect it, but also the various factors that we have listed or even not included in this list. It is just the letter from the President of the OBH that shows that they are consciously and regularly trying to influence judges by various organisations. These could be specifically referred to here as foreign-funded organisations, because last year, too, the kind of screening that had been carried out, and we have practically managed to present the background to these organisations, with this, so to speak, to build a chain of cause and effect or ideas on who is doing what and what they are saying. By the way, I think we can come to the same conclusions regarding the current amendment of the basic law. We must protect not only the legislative power, but the parliament, from these influences, but also the judges. On the part of the judges, we should be honoured because today a judge takes a judicial oath in Hungary. In accordance with the text of the oath, I accept that the matters entrusted to me are subject to fair procedure, impartially, conscientiously, only in accordance with the law, driven by justice and fairness in the pursuit of my profession. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is the wording of the oath of judges in Hungary today. Our task, on the part of the legislative power, is to create a legislative environment that allows judges to adapt and act accordingly to the text of the oath without any influence. Of course, there is also the responsibility of the executive authority to build up those material conditions and infrastructure, and to implement it from sources provided by the legislative authority, which is the functioning of the judicial branch of the 21st century. It is provided in accordance with the conditions of the 100th century. Overall, any attempt to influence the courts would have an impact on society as a whole and should therefore be taken immediately and fully against it. As you can see, the OBH has already taken action, so it specifically drew the attention of the courts to the need to announce this type of experiment separately, but we have to say that we need to make it clear from the legal side which organisations are operating, and with transparency, we need to help the court to recognise these efforts. I agree with Mr President, this is indeed a problem that Parliament cannot go without saying a word, and we must give priority to this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-05-32	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law follows the opening of a general debate. The government referral is T/332. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that during the start of the debate, the opening speech by the author, the speeches by the lead speaker and the speech by the first independent Member will take place. Further speeches by Members will be possible in the course of the debate. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-06-05-33	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Keeping an exposé to an amendment to a Constitution is always a challenge for a Minister of Justice, but it is also an honour, especially if the Minister of Justice is also a politician who teaches constitutional law as a university professor. National constitutions must carry stability at the same time, but must also be able to respond to new challenges. This was the case even when we did not have a cardinal constitution but a historical constitution. The former outstanding lawyer wrote about this more than a hundred years ago, in 1905:. The Hungarian constitution gradually evolved from the life of the nation, its roots stretch back a thousand years. The story puts one stone on another piece by piece, and in this great work of state building, the foundation will always be the same. The striking feature of our Constitution is that in it the details are smooth to the changing age, but the principles that maintain the whole do not change. I think that Professor Ernő Nagy's words are still valid today, the amendments to the Constitution so far have not changed the basic nature of our Fundamental Law. Today, this House is discussing the seventh amendment to the Fundamental Law. The first three amendments were not considered to be meaningful, essentially linked to the transitional provisions of the Fundamental Law. The fourth and fifth amendments were related to the decision of the Constitutional Court and to the agreement with the Commission of the European Union, which have already led to substantive changes. The sixth amendment was intended to protect Hungary's citizens in the context of the terrorist threat in Europe. The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law seeks to address the specific current challenges of the global world, along with the perpetuity of its principles and values. The way to respond is adapted to the spirit of the Fundamental Law, according to the National Religion, our Fundamental Law is a living framework that expresses the will of the nation, the form in which we want to live. Under these objectives, the basic legislative amendment proposal can be divided into three structural units. Allow me to present these in detail. The European Union is undoubtedly facing major challenges today, the central element of which is the relationship between the Union and the Member States. This is not a simple issue; many people think about the future of the European Union in many ways. On the one hand, it is those who are calling for the creation of a united European state to take as many powers as possible to the EU level. For them, the concept of a nation state has transcended, and it has been transcended by the 19th century. It is considered to be a product of the 21st century and is considered to be a product of the 21st century. By the end of the 20th century, a closer supranational world order was considered state-of-the-art and eligible. The supporters of this view are pleased to refer to the preparation of the ever closer union, which gives a reference to the absoluteisation of the delegation of competence to the EU. On the other hand, the need to protect national sovereignty can be identified. The supporters of this view consider it important to preserve sovereignty and constitutional identity, to consider subsidiarity as the basis for European construction, and not to accept the shift of powers to the EU level which are in breach of the attributes of self-government. They believe in this view, and so I am, of course, aware that EU cooperation is based on the limitation of the sovereignty of the Member States, on constitutional self-limitation. [[10.20]] This allows a common EU will to prevail on certain elements of the sovereignty to be exercised on the territory of the State over its citizens. But this is not contrary to the fact that we have a constitutional self which we have a constitutional obligation to protect. Indeed, if EU law and, in particular, the decisions of the EU institutions could unilaterally override the constitutional identity of individual states and the fundamental elements of their constitutional arrangement, the sovereign state of the Member States would ultimately be dissolved in the common European legal order. This can also be traced back to the judgment of the German Constitutional Court in the spirit of the principle, and the body opened it in detail in its decision on the Lisbon Treaty. Since then, the reference to constitutional identity and the boundaries of sovereignty is part of the case law of the various Constitutional Courts, including the Hungarian Constitutional Court. In its decision, the Hungarian Constitutional Court stated that Hungary, with its accession to the European Union, did not renounce its sovereignty, but only allowed for the joint exercise of certain powers. Therefore, the joint exercise of powers cannot result in the loss of the people's ultimate control over the exercise of public authority. He also stated that Hungary's constitutional identity is a fundamental value which is not created by the Fundamental Law, which is only recognised by the Fundamental Law. Therefore, constitutional identity cannot be renounced by an international treaty, only sovereignty and the permanent abolition of self-government can rob Hungary of it. The proposal for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary before you would strengthen the protection of sovereignty and constitutional identity by relying on these funds. In addition to the Preamble of the Fundamental Law and its interpretation framework, the Complement of the National Creed with principle, and the new (4) paragraph of Article R of the Fundamental Law would state as a normative provision that the protection of our constitutional identity is a fundamental duty of the State. As regards the transfer of sovereignty, the addition of Article E (2) makes it clear that the common EU competence must be in line with the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Fundamental Law and should not restrict the inalienable right to dispose of Hungary's territorial unit, population, state form and state settlement. These are framework wordings that define the limits of common EU competence, guaranteeing the Hungarian people's final right of control over the fundamental elements of state existence. There is a particular need for these frameworks of principle in the context of the migration crisis. In 2015, Europe was hit by an extraordinary wave of immigration, which is unprecedented both in size and in its root causes. Some EU institutions see this as a solution to the relocation and relocation of asylum seekers between Member States. On the other hand, Hungary considers the protection of national sovereignty and Schengen borders to be a priority. Effective action must be taken to prevent immigrants from crossing the borders of our country illegally, crossing uncontrolled borders in Hungary, or radically changing the country in which we live in the event of their permanent resettlement. In this connection, it is worth recalling the year XII of 1867. an article of the law, which also expresses similar thoughts. In this spirit, the proposal to amend the Fundamental Law strengthens the police's role in preventing illegal immigration. At the same time, illegal immigration responds to two questions related to the legal aspects of EU and international law: it opposes the need to change the composition of the Hungarian population and is committed to the interpretation of asylum as defined by the Geneva Convention. Article XIV of the Fundamental Law The new paragraph 1 of Article 3 (1) states that no foreign population can be introduced into the territory of Hungary. This definition is suitable for preventing the implementation of the occult decisions on the forced placement of Hungarian constitutional bodies and, at the same time, of the foreign population, which ignores the will of the Hungarian people, in the territory of our country. It also protects constitutional identity as defined by the living conditions of the population and linguistic, historical and cultural traditions. Action to defend sovereignty and constitutional identity would not be complete if it could be played out by distorting and misinterpreting international law rules. The problem is particularly acute in the area of asylum. Since the start of the migration crisis, refugee status has been the basis on which the masses of economic immigrants arrive in the European Union and require the protection of EU countries. On this subject, first of all, I make it clear that asylum is a fundamental right based on international documents, international treaties and the Hungarian Constitution, a right that has a well-defined conceptual and substantive framework. The provision of asylum is a conceptual framework designed to ensure that the individual is protected as soon as possible against actual persecution in his country or his habitual residence or against the real danger of persecution. This is reflected in the Geneva Convention. On the other hand, the facts indicate otherwise. That's why I needed the Fundamental Law No. XIV. The new wording of which makes it clear that, as a fundamental right to asylum in Hungary, only those coming directly to Hungary from an area where persecution or fear under the Geneva Convention is justified are entitled. In the case of everyone else, i.e. those who have arrived in our country through a country where they were not directly at risk of persecution or persecution under the Geneva Convention, the Parliament is free to decide whether or not to grant them asylum or similar protection and, if so, under what substantive conditions and procedural rules. At this point, the substantive framework for ensuring asylum has a role to play: ensuring asylum is a representation of the state's territorial sovereignty. Due to the direct involvement of the fundamental elements of sovereignty and constitutional identity, it is appropriate to provide, on a guarantee basis, a fundamental law on the basic rules for the granting of asylum. The basic legal basis for this is set out in Section XIV. Article 2a, new paragraph 5. A review of this fundamental amendment as the central element of the proposal for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law shows that the new provisions of the Fundamental Law, when adopted, ensure the protection of the sovereignty of our state and the identity of our nation. The Hungarian people include the global challenges of immigration in a framework consistent with their will in the October 2016 referendum and in the April 2018 elections. At the same time, they comply with Hungary's international commitments, as they enforce the elements of the Geneva Convention, but they enforce the principle of international customary practice, which is also justified by state practice, that the State has the right to determine the conditions under which aliens are admitted to its country. " Honourable Members, The differentiation of economic and social processes needs to be addressed not only at the level of constitutional principles and legislation, but also at the level of effective judicial functioning. The second issue of the proposal for a seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law therefore concerns certain aspects of the judiciary. Judicial independence, as I have always said, is a standing star of democracy, a high constitutional value. However, this does not mean that the rules applicable to the courts cannot be changed. Moreover, the legislative environment should be as effective as possible in ensuring the organisational framework for high-quality case-law. In this context, by amending Article 25 of the Fundamental Law, the proposal before you provides for the establishment of administrative courts separate from the ordinary court organisation and provides a fundamental framework for the legislative work required for this purpose. I have been researching administrative justice for over 30 years, so I have a personal connection to this topic. Administrative jurisdiction cannot be separated from the concept of the rule of law, since the rule of law also implies the existence of independent institutions controlling acts of public authority that trigger the legal effects of public bodies. The most important of these institutions is the separate administrative court; this is confirmed by legal theories, international examples and historical experiences. General legal basis: in a democratic state, the freedom of citizens can only be guaranteed by a public administration governed by law and subject to judicial control. [[10.30]] After the administrative procedural codifications, I can say that the first steps needed to achieve these conditions have been taken. In 2017, the National Assembly adopted the first independent Hungarian administrative order, the main achievement of which is the general clause which allows control over all external actions of the public administration which are capable of triggering legal effects. Gyula Wlassics, President of the Hungarian Royal Administrative Court, said in 1930: . There is no doubt, even if the image of the far future is that kontent administrative matters should be brought directly before administrative courts on a principled basis, without taxing, but in any case this will be the end of the development of administrative jurisdiction. This quote is also an example of the need for the development of administrative litigation, its natural direction, that the judicial control of public administration in a broad sense is exercised by a separate administrative court. Why is this organizational separation necessary? On the one hand, because of the particular purpose of administrative justice. Public administration is a legal guarantee against the omnipotence of the State in the words of Elek Boér. At the same time, however, it must strike a fair balance between the individual interest and the public interest, the objective legal order of the public administration and the individual's rights and interests, thereby ensuring the functioning of the State. On the other hand, organizational separation is necessary because of the particular internal logic of administrative jurisdiction. The examination of administrative disputes requires special expertise and judicial attitude. This should be due to the radically different characteristics of the legal relationships that have been the subject of different procedures. While the judge decides on a dispute between equal and co-ordinated parties in the civil suit, one of the subjects of the legal relationship in the administrative case is necessarily in a dominant position: the client is against the authority in the information, professional and material dominant position; simply: the individual is against the power of state. Equalising this particular relationship requires a more active judicial role, as equal access to the law can only be ensured. That is why, on the basis of the administrative procedure, a number of procedural acts must be taken by the administrative judge on his own initiative, actively contributing to the success of the procedure of proof. It is therefore legitimate to justify the specific logic of the administrative case, the protection of the public interest and the freedom of the individual, the combined provision of objective and subjective protection of rights and the fact that the conduct of such proceedings also implies specific expertise which can typically be obtained in the public administration. The majority of EU countries also have similar interpretations of public administration. I do not wish to list these countries, but in the vast majority of Europe there is a separate administrative tribunal. It must be said that there are also historical traditions in Hungary: the XXVI of 1896. Act created the Hungarian royal administrative court. This administrative court, which controls the power of state, was abolished by the Communist dictatorship in 1949. I would like to point out to those who are opposed to the creation of administrative justice the year 1949, II. the grounds of law, which recognised that the concept of a rule of law included a system of public judicial action in which the jurisdiction of a judicial body other than the executing authority is to rule on public-law disputes between public authority and seekers of rights. This is why it seems absurd that some people fear for the rule of law in the communist dictatorship to re-establish an administrative court that has been lifted because of the protection of the rule of law. In any case, international historical and legal considerations show that the creation of a separate administrative tribunal is an important, guaranteeing direction of constitutional law development. The Administrative Procedure, which entered into force on January 1, 2018, took the first step on this path. Unfortunately, in the absence of the necessary two-thirds support, the administrative superior court could not have been set up at the same time. The proposal envisages remedying this deficiency, and I regret that this institution can only be set up 30 years after the change of regime. It states in Article 25 of the Fundamental Law that the courts carry out judicial activities. The amendment suggests that courts are ordinary and administrative courts. The main body of the ordinary court organisation is the Curia, the Administrative Court of the Administrative Court. The powers of the ordinary court would continue to cover criminal matters and private disputes in the first place, and the powers of administrative courts would in principle be designated by the general rule of administrative dispute. Dear Parliament, Next year, it will be 70 years since the Administrative Court was eliminated by the communist state power as an open and committed attack on the rule of law. Now is the time to set up a worthy successor. The social need for the Hungarian State, public thinking and legal guarantees is once again ripe for the idea of an independent administrative court operating in a system of organization guaranteeing guarantees of judicial independence, which is the embodiment of the self-limitation of the executive power. Dear House, In addition to the fact that the upcoming organisational regulation provides the basis for more effective provision of justice, it is also necessary to clarify the framework for interpretation of the law. On the basis of Article 28 of the Fundamental Law in force, it is clear that the courts interpret the text of the legislation with its aim and in accordance with the Fundamental Law. However, the question arises as to how, in the case of teleologic interpretation, the legislative objective can be defined. Currently, there is only a publicly available preamble to the law, which is in the norm of the law, and its content can be clearly established. In the case of legislative justification, the situation is much more difficult: on the one hand, such justification can be obtained only in the case of laws and, on the other hand, there is no uniform justification for the law, but we can only talk about a national justification and a justification for amendments. The purpose of the amendment to the Fundamental Law is to clarify that the primary source of the legislative objective is the preamble to the Law and the justification for the draft legislation. This provision would not only clarify the framework for enforcement activities, but would also set new directions for legislation. On the basis of the proposed provision, the aim of the legislation in the future would be more widely known than the current one: the role of the preamble in the legislation would remain unchanged, but in the future the legislator would be able to state reasons for any legislation. The explanatory statement would still not be part of the legislation, would not have legal binding force, but would be the primary source of teleologic interpretation of the legislation, which would clearly reflect the will of the legislator. The objectives set out by the amendment of Article 28 of the Fundamental Law may also require further changes to legislation and technical improvements, see practically the Law on Lawmaking and Parliament, so the entry into force of this element of the proposal would take place on 1 January 2019. In the context of the changing application of the new organisational and interpretation rules based on administrative jurisdiction, I am convinced that the high level of justice will be guaranteed in our increasingly differentiated legal system. Dear Parliament, The third element of the proposal for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law relates to the protection of the private sector. As the subject of first mentioned sovereignty and constitutional identity determines the country in which we want to live, the private sector at the level of the individual provides the area within which one can be and can remain himself. The right to an undisturbed private life is, in a sense, the same age as humankind, but its general recognition and institutional protection are limited to Article XIX of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It appeared in the United States in the second half of the century. Private protection has now become an important element in international human rights documents and national constitutions. At the time of the adoption of the Hungarian Fundamental Law, the private sector was given complex protection when the VI. In accordance with Article 8 (1) of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, it stated that everyone has the right to respect their private and family lives, homes, contacts and reputations. The state's obligation to respect it suggests that, in order to protect privacy, the positive and active obligation imposed on States is higher than usual. This includes the need for the legislator to define the nature and extent of this protection from time to time. [[10.40]] With the development of technology and the differentiation of social processes, a review of the level of protection has undoubtedly become necessary. When two Boston lawyers had written in 1890 a law-historical study on the need for privacy, they formulated the need for the right to leave alone against the tabloid press, which was no longer unknown at the time. Today, however, there is also a need to respond to the challenges posed by mass data collections, social networks and drones. At the same time, the information page of the right to privacy comes to the fore, that is to say, the need to control the information about the individual and the physical side of the person, i.e. the need to gain insight into the private sector and to protect against intrusion. These processes are also challenging the fundamental rights system. In the case of new threats to the private sector, it is often difficult to prove personal harm, and this may break the limits of the traditional balance of interests test. In particular, the Constitutional Court pointed out the specific problems of the conflict between private rights and other fundamental rights 13/2016. Decision No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the conflict of privacy and the right of assembly shows that there is a lack of criteria for resolving conflict. These complex fundamental rights problems cannot be solved by simple legislation. The constitutionalist should take a position on how the legislator and the legislator should deal with the protection of the private sector, with adequate democratic legitimacy, expressing a broad consensus on society. Given the legal nature of the Fundamental Law, it is not possible for it to provide a satisfactory answer to all questions relating to privacy, and in this case the proposal also uses the method of setting the framework. The present proposal states that freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly should not result in harming the private and family lives of others and their homes. The solution chosen is in line with the concept of Hungarian and international law. Articles 10 and 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights also allow for the restriction of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and association in respect of the rights of others, and in Hungarian law the laws on the right of association and assembly or the freedom of the press have traditionally established the violation of the rights and freedoms of others as restrictions on the exercise of these rights. The solution contained in the proposal is therefore capable, on the one hand, of stressing the importance of the right to privacy and of providing a framework for the interpretation of other fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and its relationship with the right of assembly. On the other hand, it uses an established regulatory technique known to the law-abiding person, which allows the court to consider, on a case-by-case basis, the extent to which the exercise of such rights entails harm to the private and family lives and to the home of others. For example, it does the same in the event of a conflict between human dignity and freedom of expression, which is also framed by the Fundamental Law. The other part of the amendment is Article VI of the Fundamental Law. A new paragraph 2 is added. In this sense, the State provides legal protection to the home in order to preserve its peace of mind. The amendment is based on the recognition that the protection of private rights also covers the spatial sphere in which private and family life develops. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The Constitutional Court, referring to the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court, stressed that the rest of the home was the last refuge for tired people, the space where people could retreat from everyday bustle. The proposal also highlights this aspect of private protection, the sanctity of the home, by ensuring that the privacy of the home is protected as a high priority value for the state's legal protection. Within the framework set by the proposal, a legislative environment and a single Judaica can be developed that will improve the generation of private rights, and will result in the predictability of the exercise of these fundamental rights, the right to privacy, freedom of expression and the right to assembly for all. Dear House, Constitutionalization is a historic moment. Following the consolidation of the basic principles of the Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law was amended only once in the 2014-2018 cycle by a parliamentary consensus in order to introduce the concept of a terrorist threat. As I hope then, honourable Members agree that the global migration processes, the federalistic aspirations of the European Union and the challenges that threaten the private sector of the individual make it necessary for the Fundamental Law to clarify certain organisational and legal frameworks of the Hungarian State. As a former constitutional judge and author of the volume dealing with constitutionality in Europe, I can say with conviction that the proposal to amend the Fundamental Law gives answers to current challenges in line with the spirit of the Fundamental Law, the European values and the requirements of international law. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-34	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, There will now be speaker speeches in a 30-minute time frame, while two-minute speeches are not possible. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, the leader of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-06-05-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to Mr. Minister's exposé, we would like to add a lot of things on the part of the group, but I think it is appropriate to approach our own position, our point of view, in addition to legal constitutional considerations, from considerations based on political and democratic mandate. I therefore feel it is necessary to emphasise at the outset that, although the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law concerns a number of areas concerning the protection of constitutional identity, court-related issues and the private sector, the past period and the resulting challenges, debates and differences of views in the political field concerned primarily the issue of identity with regard to the current amendment of the Fundamental Law, and as a background, one of the reasons for this must remember the 2016 referendum, where exactly 3 362 224 Hungarian citizens voted against the institutionalisation of illegal immigration, so to speak, the compulsory quota plan. It has also become clear that this debate will determine not only the public speech in the Hungarian internal political space, not only the topic of the parliamentary election campaign, and not only in Hungary, but also in many other countries of Europe, the election campaigns in Italy, the Czech Republic, as well as in Austria. It is therefore necessary, out of the will to vote, not only from the electoral will expressed at the parliamentary elections on 8 April 2018, but also from the will of the unparalleled number of voters who voted in the same direction in the referendum in 2016, to draw the justification for the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law beyond the legal considerations that Minister presented in his expozee. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also necessary to establish, along this logic, that it has become an entirely obvious obligation for the Hungarian Parliament after the referendum referred to above and the parliamentary elections, as a result of the fact that the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law has been actively and by serving the electoral needs. On the issue of our constitutional identity and the amendment affecting it, this is a textual addition to the so far part of the Fundamental Law:. We believe that the protection of our own identity, which is rooted in our historical constitution, is a fundamental obligation of the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, When our country became a member of the European Union and has fulfilled and has fulfilled all the obligations of this alliance to this day, it is clear that, in addition to bearing our duties under the treaties and transferring some part of our sovereignty, we have also said and have to say again that we do not need to give up other parts of our national constitutional identity in order to fulfil all these federal obligations. [[10.50]] The definition of the order of entry into the territory of the country and, in this context, the enforcement of public security considerations, let us say, the security aspects of the future, are one of the key elements of our sovereignty that we cannot give up. In 2016, the Constitutional Court dealt with the interpretation of Article E (2) of the Fundamental Law in a decision stating that constitutional identity is a fundamental value that is not created by the Fundamental Law, it is only recognised by the Fundamental Law, the state cannot give up on this, the protection of which is the responsibility of the current Constitutional Court, and that will cease only when the State itself ceases, as Minister Trócsányi mentioned. There is, therefore, a constitutional minimum that the European Union's legal order cannot override, a part of sovereignty that our country cannot give up, so we regard it as our constitutional obligation. This also means that powers which would affect the country's inalienable right of disposal cannot be transferred to the European Union. With this amendment, Hungary will bring the principle adopted in international custom law to a fundamental level that the State has the right to determine the conditions under which it will allow aliens to enter its country. This was also recorded in the draft UN Committee on International Law on International Law on Foreign Returns. Dear Parliament, The Fundamental Law will state that no foreign population can be deployed in Hungary. Similarly, the prohibition of group expulsion is also recorded. It must be made clear, learning from XX. From the sad examples of the 20th century, that group expulsion, let us call it expulsion, cannot be allowed as much as group resettlement, in particular not according to the European planned practice, which is intended to circumvent our sovereignty, which European political forces perceive as completely natural. The Fundamental Law will also state that the asylum application for a person who has come to Hungary through a safe country and who is not at risk of persecution or persecution will not be granted. Dear Parliament, The section on the provisions relating to courts proposes the setting up of a superior administrative court and the establishment of an organisation of administrative judicial proceedings. We share the Minister's position that the independence of the judiciary does not mean the integrity of the courts, and the framework for it must be laid down in the Fundamental Law. In particular, we welcome the fact that the amendment restores the historical foundations of the judicial system, which at the same time responds to the challenges of the times ahead. The proposal for autonomous administrative courts is nothing new, and the technical and multi-party discussions on this have started two years ago, in which some opposition parties have not participated. I thought it was necessary to fix this because we look forward to the position taken in the parliamentary debate by those who did not take part in the preparatory negotiations. In the previous term, Hungary's first independent code of administrative litigation was established with the entry into force of the administrative procedure, but the establishment of the organisational bases for separate administrative judicial proceedings could not take place in the absence of the necessary majority in Parliament, which is why it is necessary to use the mandate of the electors here, the mandate given in parliamentary elections, to finalise this. Looking at the European context, Minister Trócsányi indicated that he did not list the countries in which the Constitution contains the requirement for the organisation of the administrative court, but these, as examples, are Austria, Bulgaria, Finland, Greece, Poland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Germany, Portugal or Sweden. Therefore, it cannot be regarded as extreme and special that the Fundamental Law regulates the framework of the Administrative Supreme Court and the Administrative Court system. It is a practice known in European law, and we therefore consider it entirely acceptable for our part. Maybe we don't have to say too much about the protection of the private sector. It has become completely clear, and we need not only to refer it back to Minister's exposé, but also to the practice of the past years, it is absolutely vital and it is necessary to lay down a Fundamental Law to protect everyone, including their private and family lives, that protection as a fundamental right. To this end, it is noted that freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly should not result in harm to the private and family lives of others and to their homes. It is easy to see that this regulation responds to the technological developments referred to by the Minister. It is not just about expression or the right of assembly, but it is also about the issues of personal protection associated with technical progress throughout our time. It is also necessary to fix this in the Fundamental Law. The state also protects the home in order to keep it calm and secure. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the amendment of the Fundamental Law, as you can see and, as we have said, concerns a number of areas, it is nevertheless necessary to emphasise that the proposal to protect constitutional identity, national identity, is based on the electoral mandate which allows the Government to present the amendment of the Fundamental Law to Parliament now. The decisive message of our election campaign was that Hungary is our first. We don't just look at it as a slogan. If we had considered it so, then from the day of the election, it might have lost its meaning, let's just say. Given that this is our common creed, it is also necessary to lay this foundation here in Parliament in order to amend the basic law. The protection of Hungary, the preservation of Hungary's culture, the strengthening of Christian culture and the security of our country and our future is an obligation imposed on us by voters, and from which it is not even appropriate to have a political debate, since this issue was already decided by voters on 8 April and 2016. Now we have the opportunity to comply with that will. That is why I am very confident that the opposition parties will see that they respect the nearly 3.4 million people and the nearly 2.8 million people who voted to confirm this, to accept this basic legislative amendment, as they were aware that they would place this issue on the agenda of the Parliament when making their decision. We hope that this year, in 2018, opposition parties will not turn their backs on the will of millions of Hungarians after the formation of the new government, as opposed to the practice of 2016. We also hope that we will find a partner in you to ensure the security of our country at a national minimum, to strengthen our identity and to protect our constitutional identity and our future and culture. We are confident that their political position, which has been occupied for unknown reasons, will be overruled and that a fundamental law amendment in the form of the seventh amendment, in which we can act together to protect our Christian culture, our future and our security. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation. The session will be handed over to Vice-President János Latorcai. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-06-05-37	Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all with love. We'll get back to work. The keynote speech of the Jobbik Group will be presented by two of its Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.00]]
u2018-06-05-38	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise, in a zero-step or perhaps a zero-point sentence, that if you really aim to support such a proposal here, within the walls of the Parliament, with a broader consensus, it will not be submitted in a salad law, but will be prepared in substance, and will not confuse administrative courts, for example, with problems caused by immigration, border protection, criminal code, police law and so on. You know that, as you know, but you do not say that your goal is, in fact, not to create consensus, but to demonstrate in the next elections to the European Parliament, and then in municipal elections, who has not supported what. That is why I do not want to talk about administrative courts, but rather about the very serious problem that is actually affecting Europe, and in view of Hungary, I should say that it affects it in a fluctuating way and to an extent, but it must undoubtedly be dealt with, and it will undoubtedly not be solved overnight. You talked a lot about identity, constitutional identity, the protection of Christianity and the rest, and so on. I agree with all of that. Indeed, after 8 April, I would particularly prefer not to have a political debate, but rather, if, for the next four years, this Parliament stand up, I would use a constructive proposal and a truly constructive criticism to you. If we are talking about the protection of Christendom, then let us, of course, look into ourselves as opposition parties, and you, in particular, as ruling parties - because most of them obviously have greater responsibility for themselves. As for the protection of Christendom, we need to look at what the rhetoric and dynamics of recent years have caused in society, which was used and used in the campaign. Did the campaign that they did during the national consultation, what they did during the referendum and what they did throughout the election campaign serve to protect Christendom? Is that in line with Christian values? Did it happen in the spirit of your neighbor? Obviously not, and you know it, and we know it. The question is whether we can go beyond this somewhere for the future. I agree that Hungary must be preserved culturally, religiously, its identity must be strengthened and, in particular, its Christian values must be strengthened. But let's see what the purpose is for this, what the tool is. If, as legislators, we want to help Christianity here, within the walls of the Parliament, then we need to write and accept proposals that really help. The big question is whether such proposals will help. I am saying that the law enforcement side is helping this proposal, since it preserves the ethnic, cultural value and talent that we currently have. I already have my doubts about what we intend to amend in the Fundamental Law, but I can accept that that is the goal and that is the intention. But will we have self - criticism to speak honestly about these things? There's no campaign, I don't want to give a campaign speech, I guess you don't, but then let's be honest. What has been happening in recent months, in the last two years, in connection with immigration, whether on your part, and I say that I bear responsibility from the opposition side, or from our side, may be interpreted in many ways, but one thing cannot be put wrong is that it was Christian. I'm sure you're aware of that. If, in private, we ask any ecclesiastical character, someone close to the church, who holds any status, then I think you've met with this quite often, just like I have. The big question is how we will deal with this responsibility in the coming years. If we look at chronology, at the end of the previous term, a so-called Stop Soros bill was submitted, which was discussed in general, perhaps a month or two before the election. Given the content of that package, this package is not only not suitable, but we are talking about almost completely different proposals. We can ask what happened. This proposal no longer includes the registration of civil society organisations, the screening of national security risks, the payment of taxes in the case of foreign aid, the 25% levy and the rest, and the rest. If I were to say an analogy, I could also say on this proposal that this Stop Soros package, which is now lying in front of us, has lost its Soros character. If the bill submitted at the end of the previous term was the real anti-Soros package, then it does not contain any trace of what was formulated there. My question, and I'd really like to know the answer to that, is what's happened over the last few months. Ethnic criticism? Is it possible to get them out of the European People's Party? The pressure of civil society organisations? I don't think that's gonna bother you. But yet, in substance, even though they said that they would make a much stricter, much tougher proposal, it did not become stricter and it did not become tougher. But, no doubt, we're talking about a salad package. It involves a lot of things. However, if it were to show its hardness, then, beyond my agreement, I would quote the Fundamental Law of XIV. The only line from Article 4 of the Act, which has now been included as an amendment. I'll add, I agree with him. This is what this one sentence says: "The non-Hungarian citizen who came to Hungary through a country where he was not directly exposed to persecution or persecution is not entitled to asylum. Let's translate this into a more Hungarian version. What does it mean? This means, in particular, that no immigrant who did not arrive by plane can come to Hungary. For anyone who comes by foot, train or car comes only through a safe country. If you want to prevent immigration in Hungary, this is essentially the only sentence that will solve if the authorities act in accordance with this basic law sentence. On the basis of this sentence, it would be possible for the authorities to consider whether or not they are entitled to any refugee status in the case of migrants, immigrants arriving by air. And we shouldn't write pages, we shouldn't change a lot of other legislation. Here's a sentence, and I'll add, I agree. I also think that those who come from a safe country may not be entitled to asylum. After all, if a person is forced to leave home with his family because of persecution, war, or other emergencies, then I assume that he will stop in the first safe country. Especially if it is more religious, culturally likened to his motherland than a completely different culture. But then the question is, what is the need for the other amendments? Well, I suppose the necessity is dictated by practice and written laws and laws that are completely different. We have mentioned this particular case here, among the walls of the Parliament; it is the perfect litmus paper of the state of Hungarian society. You remember the Prime Minister's words, which he said on radio and on television in many cases, that the multitude of refugees should be divided. One who arrives illegally, or kicks the door down, breaks down the fence, breaks all written and unwritten rules, and the other who needs help knocks on the door politely, and the Hungarian state helps. [[11.10]] Well, what happened in Őcsény was that I wouldn't recall it, but I'm sure everyone is aware of it as a lynching mood for children's vacations, refugee status for vacations for children. How did this situation develop? That's what the Prime Minister said, that it's very right that the ancients gave an opinion and didn't ask for immigrants. He did not add, Prime Minister, that it was these children who, in his words, politely knocked on the door, asked for help, and Hungary helped them. That's what I'm saying. Reality and the written rule are completely different. A sentence of the Fundamental Law, referred to above, which says that we cannot grant or give any status to a person who comes from a safe country, means that we should essentially translate it into Hungarian, and that we should not legalise the Geneva Convention does not apply to us. Because the children and the 3,500 immigrants who had already settled or been granted refugee status, who Kristóf Altusz spoke about in January this year, were granted status on the basis of the Geneva Convention. However, the certain government decree and the basic law sentence that you have just put in this proposal would be about the fact that the Geneva Convention does not apply to us in the sense that anyone who does not come by plane should not be allowed to grant refugee status or any other status to Hungary. That is why I asked, Commissioner, Minister Trocsányi, at the Ministry of the Interior, how we will resolve this dilemma in reality. Because once again, I am not against such a proposal being made, and I even agree with it. The question is that we talk about it, and we write down such tough sentences, and the legal consequence of which is quite clear: in Hungary no one can receive any status by rail, by car, by foot, by bicycle, I don't know, by boat, because this is what the Fundamental Law says. We have recognised Serbia, Montenegro, Croatia, Romania, everyone around us is a safe country. If I remember correctly, Minister, he just argued that the European Union has been taken as a certain measure, that anyone who is already a member of the EU, or where accession processes are at a certain stage and step, is considered a safe country. I agree. The big question is how this will work in practice. Who among you dares to report that we accept this proposal, and from now on, the asylum procedure will only be possible for immigrants arriving on the plane? That is what this proposal is about. In black and white, it is clearly included: those who come from a safe country are not entitled to any status. But then what about the 3,500 people Kristóf Altusz told a Maltese newspaper in January that Hungary accepted these essentially under the Geneva Convention? I want these dilemmas to be resolved somehow. If you could tell me in an exact way and make it clear to society who the refugee is and who the immigrant is. And I don't want to be a lawyer, but 12 out of 10 a lawyer tells us that it is problematic to create legislation that, for example, any Hungarian passage talks about illegal immigration, while immigration as such is not legally defined or interpreted by any Hungarian legislation. Then how can it be illegal that you don't even understand? But the problem is real, we have to deal with it. I would leave the legal profession to the lawyers, but there's no doubt that reality and written legislation are not in a thank-you relationship. And once again, I feel that your goal is not, in fact, to bring, with the broadest consensus, a piece of legislation serving as much as 100 per cent of the security of the people and citizens of Hungary, regardless of their party standing, but to put together such impossible packages and passes that they will not be supported and shown next spring and next autumn. And I would like to take seriously that, after the elections, you will take seriously the millions of wills that have been referred to so many times during national consultation, referendum or election on 8 April as a will. If you ask them whether they want settlement bonds, for example, because if you can't install a foreign population, if I interpret them a little over-extensively, then that's also true for settlement bonds: you can't install them for money and you can't install them for money. But there's this legal loophole. Mr.Máté Kocsis also said that in 2016 we did not support the amendment of the basic law, indeed we did not. And if we ask now, two years later, whether it was right or whether it was right not to support that fundamental law amendment, then I would answer with a statistic. In 2016, you said that it had to be laid down in the Fundamental Law so that no quota in Brussels could accommodate 1,200 people. Compared to this, Kristóf Altusz was able to install 3500 people in secret in January this year. However, what we have stated is that we will support the amendment of the basic law if the settlement bonds cease to exist: with the help of settlement bonds almost 20,000 rich migrants have been established in Hungary. This is the answer to which was the loophole and which was the big gate. They wanted to change the law for 1,200 people. Meanwhile, between June 2013 and July 2017 19 980-some rich immigrants from third countries were able to settle down, along with family reunifications. Then, in light of this, we will examine the intent of who we let in and who we won't let in. They weren't brave enough to say yes, we don't want poor immigrants, but if you have money, you can come. That's what the settlement bond construction was all about. And I'm glad it doesn't work at the moment, so you can't record these bonds, because you're suspended. But I am not satisfied that after a few months, perhaps a year, or two years, this particular design will not be reactivated, because if you really thought that this was no longer necessary, then a single stroke of the pen could essentially remove this pass. I really said everything I said as a sincere and constructive criticism. We have been through a bad campaign and election, but if we are serious about the country's security, then we will hear the positive and constructive criticisms that really serve the country's security as a whole. But I can see the cynical smiles on the faces. I know exactly what you're thinking, and I know exactly... [[György Balla: There's yours! Laszlo Szászfalvi: You are never cynical! You guys are always cynical.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a mirror, so they can't see you in me. [[Miklós Soltész: No one listens to him, but he sees that he is cynical!]] But it's perfectly clear what I'm saying: if you're serious about consensus, you're not filing a salad law. They don't want administrative courts at the same time and they don't want Btk's amendment and fundamental law amendments at the same time. And I believe that we will continue our criticisms in detail in this debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group of the Jobbik Group, will continue his speech. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. [[11.20]]
u2018-06-05-40	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As has already been said before, it is indeed not possible to reject this current debate from the debate that we launched here in February of this year and carried out on another bill, which was also called Stop Soros. At the debate of that referral, we almost all lost the hope that a meaningful debate between the parties could be held here in the Hungarian Parliament on real national issues. On the issue of migration, we also believe that it is an important issue, a national issue, for which a consensus must be found here between the walls of Parliament. In contrast, Fidesz chose the campaign period leading to the parliamentary elections as the first venue for the debate on this proposal, and there, in the debate, as in the whole campaign, you have advocated the lowest emotions of Hungarian society, and it was scary to see and experience that this kind of campaign, which basically relies on envy, fear and hatred, could be successful. I believe that much has led to your current two-thirds rule: the electoral law, the introduction of authorities that lied to the independent into Fidesz's rule, the complete abolition of media, press and freedom of speech, and I could tell you a long time, but this hateful campaign could also have led here. This reminds me of one of the very important stages of my childhood reading experience when I read Orwell 1984. I naively thought it was all about communism, and it's really about communism, but this book, 1984, is being used by you in that campaign, and it seems to have been used as a manual ever since. In this book, there is an Emmanuel Goldstein, founder of the Party, but he opposes the Party, and the Party orders that from now on two minutes of hatred, two minutes of hate, be held against Emmanuel Goldstein every day. You have found your Goldstein, György Soros, who was one of the most important sponsors of your party, and you have sent many of you to Western universities at a time when this was not yet possible for mortal Hungarians. You are not proclaiming a two-minute hate against this man, the Orwelli two minutes, but a long-month hate campaign from morning to evening. This has caused incredible damage not only to you, but also to you, because you have been completely isolated internationally, even within your own party family. It is symbolic that we are having this debate one day after the day and you have repeatedly referred here today to the fact that, on foreign policy, Hungary has never been so recognised - that you are threatened with exclusion from your own party family, and you have even quarreled with your own Dutch brothers and sisters, and have had an ugly fight over various issues. However, this should be your party business, your internal affairs, but the fact that Hungary has been completely isolated in recent years is a matter for all of us. In Hungarian society, the moral and moral damage your policy causes, my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki spoke about it for a long time. The Csécsény case was a truly heartbreaking step in this, as is the fact that in Hungary we have to live with the fact that our country and our capital are one of the most visited locations in Europe, while our Hungarian compatriots, thanks to your agitpropos policy, are already calling the police on tourists, because they believe that migrants are roaming their main squares or on their streets. You are taking away the chance of having a normal debate on matters of fate that are very important in Hungary, such as migration. They are taking away the chance that we can remedy the root of this important issue of fate in the long term, such as multiculturalism, against which Hungary really needs to act, and we do not want Hungary to be seen as a multicultural society such as many lost Western European societies. There is indeed a place for this debate, just as it is worth having a normal debate on the issue of the transparency of civil society organisations. And, of course, also about interreligious dialogue, because if we want to address the migration issue in the long term, I very much hope that you will not imagine it as a religious war, but rather as moderate, not extreme representatives of the great world religions sitting down and seeking common solutions. [[Miklós Soltész: Grey Wolves! Congratulations.]] The good news is that this law has been amended; that by external or internal pressure, it will be decided by history, but you seem to have backed down, and indeed, as my fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki rightly said, this new bill has already completely lost its Soros character. However, this bill can be seen as our legal and codification work. Before the agenda today, my fellow Members have made a long list of the conditions under which a bill or a legal proposal must comply. I believe that this proposal fulfils relatively few of these conditions. My fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki, spoke about the paradoxes that you have failed to resolve in recent months, and this law does not point in this direction either. We have heard Jobbik's opinion on the around 3,500 refugee, protected issues that you have settled under the Geneva Convention, and Jobbik also made its position clear on the situation of settlement in Hungary with settlement bonds for more than 20,000 people. We do not allow it on this issue, because we believe that neither poor nor rich migrants should settle down in Hungary with public authority and consent. We are very pleased that the proposals that adversely affect civil society organisations have also been removed from this law, the issue of registration, the obligation to pay taxes or the stigma. However, Jobbik will help you, through constructive amendments, to define precisely in this law the wording of a blanket, such as the organisations helping refugees, or the activities involved. In this regard, Jobbik will make proposals for amendments. My fellow Member spoke of the suspicion that you do not want to establish a pan-European agreement with these legislative proposals here, but, yes, you are seeking to point out to other parties in the coming months and years why they do not support these proposals. Yeah, it's really unfair for you to bring in salad laws. They're scissorsing bill proposals so that they can't support each party with a good heart. I am also taking advantage of the suspicion that you do not want to solve the issue of migration, but to maintain it, otherwise you would not have vetoed the new proposal in Europe alone, in the European Union alone, between Africa and the European Union, which was one of the consequences of the process in Rabat, which is trying to address the migration issue at continental level across Europe. I think you are acting completely irresponsible when you want to keep this issue on the agenda and not looking for long-term solutions to this global challenge. [[11.30]] Because it is really very important that Hungary takes a tough position on this issue in the European Union. I believe that the role of diplomacy should be taken seriously in this debate. Hungary's task would be to have other Central and Eastern European countries in the European Union [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At the Brussels negotiating table, he explains the position in Central and Eastern Europe why Hungary and other Central and Eastern European countries cannot accept multiculturalism and the issue of unlimited immigration, but diplomacy has a major role to play in this. You should also show a responsible attitude on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-06-05-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Before I give the opportunity to make the next speech, I would like to point out to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm that she has signed up for a two-minute speech, but there is no two-minute speech at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr András Aradski. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-05-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, I would like to begin by quoting from the National Creed, by quoting the first sentence of the National Creed, I would like to begin by saying that we are proud that our King Saint Stephen put the Hungarian state on solid foundations a thousand years ago and made our country part of Christian Europe. I believe that this sentence obliges all of us to do a lot, and here, within the walls of this House, it also obliges us to maintain our Fundamental Law, taking into account the spirit of our constitutional order, the Fundamental Law. Indeed, the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law is the first amendment to achieve this maintenance task, with good reason, noble purpose and with the reasons and goals set out in the first sentence of the National Creed. It is obvious to all of us, and so did the speakers before me, that the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law is primarily based on the need to strengthen our identity, to examine the framework and purpose of the applicability of national sovereignty, and to say which things are not the basis for debate, which are not the possibility of a transfer of rights under a treaty with the European Union. It is obvious, and it has also been said, that this fundamental law amendment has another cause, trigger, namely, illegal immigration, which crashed into our country by elemental force in 2015, causing unblessed conditions in public areas and, creating a real terrorist threat, endangered the rest of our country's security and endangered our national sovereignty. At the time and there, the Hungarian government reacted quickly, uniquely and effectively to how this illegal immigration could be properly and rationally prevented, then we implemented it primarily by building fences, and then it also had a legal protection structure. Of course, the opposition at the time, which is largely the same as the one we have now, protested against this, is a migrant petting zoo. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: It took our vote to put up the fence.]] They tried to undermine the sovereignty of our country with pro-immigrant contributions. And we have, of course, received the same from migrant-friendly Soros organisations, as well as those countries in Europe that had an interest in supporting immigration for historical or economic reasons, who were interested in staying here permanently, and after having become burdened with supply and integration, they were set as a goal to relocate them to countries that do not want to accept illegal immigrants, in the way the European Union would require them. It is also an important question why the Fundamental Law should be amended in terms of sovereignty and identity. The current situation within the European Union... I am thinking of the applicability of the Lisbon Treaty, which has transposed the principle of a single unanimous vote into a principle of two-thirds majority voting in significant areas, so that European decision-makers also ventured into areas that had not previously been subject to the sovereignty of the Member States. At the moment, we see that wherever we look, this is the issue of migration, but also the question of climate protection, energy, where we have two-thirds decisions instead of a united vote, that in this respect it is important to determine in which areas these two-thirds decisions cannot undermine the sovereignty of the Hungarian nation. I believe that the areas set out in the draft amendment to the basic law, such as the ban on the changeability of the population, the form of state and the state through the framework of the European Treaty, are a good goal, it strengthens the nation's identity and strengthens our national sovereignty. So in this respect, it can be attached back to the first sentence of the National Creed that our King Saint Stephen laid the Hungarian state on a solid basis a thousand years ago. This solid basis will be strengthened by the seventh amendment of the basic law if it is adopted, and we need this Silád foundation in accordance with Article XXI. on the challenges of the century. The next part of the amendment to the Fundamental Law is intended to protect and protect privacy and family life. Everyone knows that in the modern world, family life is most exposed to modern media tools, and I am thinking of putting children at risk, and here I am thinking of the introduction of life forms within the framework of family life that are not intended or pursued by the family, but are inevitable and can have a very negative impact on the continuation of family life. But I also think about it, and as a politician, I know a fellow politician whose family has been unable to live a normal life for months, because his apartment, near his property, where he lived, was regularly protested for a cause that the politician had nothing to do with, but it was a good thing that he didn't have to travel far to protesters, but that he could keep harassing his family, harassing his underage children. It is therefore clear that, in this respect, there must be an important constitutional, fundamental fundamental basis for the protection and respect of privacy and family life, the primacy of which has been described by the author and fully supported on legal and legal grounds. The next area, which is also linked to illegal immigration, is also linked to something that we have had to experience bitterly throughout Hungarian history, namely the prohibition of the introduction of a foreign population and the prohibition of mass expulsion and expulsion in the Fundamental Law. [[11.40]] I think that these areas are once again leading back to ensuring that we retain our identity and ensuring the ability of Hungarian society to live harmoniously in this country according to its own customs, culture and belief, and to make changes based on its own decision, where appropriate, on a matter of resettlement. What I must add to this idea is that it is obvious that the constitutional level of treatment and the intention can be fully agreed - that it cannot be helped, it cannot be supported, the processes that ensure the stay of illegal immigrants who have otherwise come through countries where no one has endangered their lives and safety. What I see on this issue is that this also has the legal and, of course, the political basis, and this political fund has not asked people what they think about it more than once - and in the national consultations and in the referendum in 2016, the people have decided by an overwhelming majority, and now in the last parliamentary elections in 2018, that they do not ask for illegal immigration, they do not ask that Hungary, despite the Hungarian society, transform the population and the composition of the population. It is important and part of the amendment of the basic law on the courts. It has been said several times that the administrative court before the war was a well-functioning and competent body, operating independently. Today, it is sad that nearly thirty years went by to talk again about an independent administrative court after communism. The reason why such a court should be set up and certain groups of cases should be considered by this court is because a very specific area of law that regulates the relationship between the State and the citizen in a very wide range of ways should be applied, and for this it requires an appropriate specialised judiciary, which will speed up the assessment of such cases by the judiciary and the independent administrative court, and will bring together the case law and make the application of law more secure, which is well served by the creation of an independent administrative court, and I therefore believe that this section of the law is also important. It is a very interesting and forward-looking idea when, at the judicial stage, the draft Fundamental Law sets out the framework for applying it, to exercise judicial discretion. This is not alien to the Hungarian legal system, there was a framework in the civil order before, what the judge could and how to consider. In this respect, I find it very right and welcome that this discretion, the margin of discretion, is laid down by the Fundamental Law, in accordance with the spirit, the rules of the Fundamental Law and leaving, of course, the very wide-ranging freedom of justice and other aspects of judicial discretion, which can be justified from the facts. I believe that this bill will serve the sovereignty of the Hungarian nation in the future, strengthen our identity and ensure that we can ensure the protection of the local population, the protection of our state system and the protection of our state structure in connection with these conditions. On this basis, the Christian Democratic People's Party can support the adoption of the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who is speaking here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-05-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law partly serves to implement a net political power calculation and partly contains unstandard political communication lounges. However, their common characteristic is that they are completely unfit to prevent illegal immigration, but they deprive Hungarians of their rights in the bloody struggles of centuries. This is true of freedom of expression and assembly as well as of judicial independence. We also congratulate all Members of Parliament who support and vote in favour of this proposal out of loyalty to the party state and the kind leader. Dear Parliament, For the seventh time, the National Assembly plans to amend Hungary's Fundamental Law. This means that the Fundamental Law for granite strength will be amended seven times in seven years. The amendments previously served the power interests of Fidesz on each occasion, and therefore, when considering the seventh amendment, we cannot ignore the goals that led to the previous changes. The first amendment took less than a year after the adoption of the Fundamental Law. The proposal immediately revealed that Fidesz did not even tolerate contradictions from the Constitutional Court. It was included in the Fundamental Law that even the transitional provisions form part of the Constitution, so neither can anyone, nor the Constitutional Court, examine them. This speechable intention prepared the second amendment, which would have introduced the electoral registration, in accordance with the political interests of the governing parties at that time. These were still prevented by the Constitutional Court at that time. The purpose of the third amendment was the complete transformation of the Hungarian land ownership conditions, which, with subsequent land auctions, provided the oligarchs of the NER to huge land estates. We don't need to show who got hundreds of acres, thousands of them, even in Felcsút, Hódmezővásárhely, or Kishantos. The sublime fourth amendment to the Fundamental Law could not be interpreted differently than the reckoning with all the objections. The provisions, which the Constitutional Court considers to be unlawful, were simply incorporated into the Fundamental Law. In fact, after the fall of the electoral registration, the Constitutional Court's hand was tied, its earlier decisions were repealed and its examination framework was narrowed down. They wanted to be sure that the board would never again hinder the implementation of the government's decisions, which is why it is quite interesting that in Minister's exposé he referred to the powers of interpretation of the Constitutional Court. Not only domestic and international criticisms have been received by the government about the amendments. The Union, the Venice Commission, and even the churches have raised their voice in the face of legal restrictive changes that have disrupted the separation of powers. On the basis of such antecedents, the fifth amendment was tabled, which amended, but did not withdraw, the most flagrant, most scandalous provisions. When government parties were not driven by power goals, the amendments to the basic law were completely unnecessary, purely for propaganda. With the sixth amendment, Fidesz also used the issue of counter-terrorism to this end. The amendment was absolutely unnecessary, since the answers to security challenges had already been settled by the National Assembly with other laws. Following such precedents, we will reach the proposal which is now the seventh amendment. [[11.50]] The government presented it with the communication that only by adopting it can it protect national sovereignty and prevent the deployment of a foreign population in Hungary. However, apart from teaching the protesters and the judges who judge the Curia in election cases, the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law is a collection of political communication lozunges and the promotion of phrases without legal content. Two years ago, after the quota referendum, the government once ran into the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Since the proposal before this House is the same in this regard as the amendment tabled two years ago, it is therefore safe to say that it does not change the relationship between EU law and the Hungarian constitution since 2004 and is even entirely compatible with the introduction of compulsory refugee quotas. Hungarian public law has not yet recognised the primacy of EU law over the Hungarian constitution, in line with the European head-sort. The accession clause, which has been in force for 11 years, still contains two barriers to the law of the European Union and has thus been a barrier to an EU act which violates constitutional identity or restricts the essential content of fundamental rights. In other words, in this amendment of the basic law, there is actually no tightening up. As the explanatory statement acknowledges, there is nothing other than the fact that the limits of the Constitutional Court's otherwise binding decisions are added to the Fundamental Law. How this would make us stronger, the government couldn't answer it at all. The plan for a compulsory refugee quota means that asylum applications must not be assessed by the Union's front countries, in particular Italy and Greece, but are decided by the asylum authorities of each Member State on a quota basis. The proposed amendment only strengthens the latter procedural rule and would therefore not be an obstacle to the introduction of compulsory refugee quotas. The proposal seeks to supplement the basic rules on asylum by providing that, as a subject law that can be enforced before a court, asylum is not granted to a refugee who has come to Hungary through a country where he has not been persecuted or has no direct risk of being persecuted. However, this is nothing new. The Fundamental Law in force today provides asylum only if the refugee is not protected by his country of origin or by any other country. It is easy to see that the country where the fugitive was persecuted or exposed to the immediate risk of persecution does not provide protection for him. We understand, of course, that what the government is trying to emphasise by all means is that asylum seekers arriving through Serbia do not have to carry out the asylum procedure in a meaningful way, but this does not require this amendment. To reject your request from a safe third country, as I am sure you have noticed in recent years, both the laws in force and EU law are also an opportunity today. The Government also proposes that the fundamental tasks of the police, as laid down in the Fundamental Law, should be complemented by participation in the prevention of illegal immigration. For our part, we cannot imagine illegal immigration which would not, at least, prejudice public order and the order of the state border, and that is still the fundamental task of the police at constitutional level. This amendment will not make it more effective or stronger to protect Hungary's sovereignty. Government propaganda wants to link the proposal to action against immigration, but the substantive changes do not concern this area. One of the biggest reactions to the proposal was the intention to restrict the right of assembly. The amendment specifically aims to include the right to respect for private and family life and home as a restriction on freedom of opinion and freedom of assembly, but does not change the constitutional framework in force. The right of assembly has never been and is not unlimited, i.e. an absolute fundamental right. In many cases, the police have refused to hold a protest, even with reference to the protection of the order of transport. In reality, this is one of the most common and simple restrictions on fundamental rights in a democratic rule of law, and it is therefore talkative that the government wants to impose even more restrictions on the rest of the home, as stated in the explanatory statement, in order to protect the last refuge for tired people. Obviously, the amendment of the assembly law will provide the framework for this, but we do not even know the draft of this. This restriction, however, on the basis of the generally accepted meaning of the words, means that protests will not be possible in a populated area, since even in Kossuth Square the rest of someone's home may be damaged. What is absurd is that in the future demonstrations can only be held on Opustaszer or on Hortobágy, I suppose, in silence. We are probably not far from reality if we assume that the Prime Minister is simply incredibly disturbed by protests around his house, and now, in the hands of the constitutional majority, he intends to close this question forever. In relation to freedom of expression, the Ministry of Justice also has extensive constitutional and ordinary court case law at its disposal, which is why it is difficult to understand the tightening up. For example, it is consistent practice that communications on the privacy of politicians, if not part of the public debate, do not enjoy the outstanding constitutional protection of freedom of opinion. It is another provision, a completely unnecessary amendment. What is most important, yet vague, part of the proposal is plans for the transformation of justice. The Government intends to amend one of the rules of the Fundamental Law, which provides for objective interpretation of the law, in addition to a genuine constitutional complaint. At least there were results of this provision, the courts, in addition to following the letter of the law, placed increasing emphasis on following the spirit of the law, that is to say, to attach importance to the common sense of their content, in addition to the literal interpretation of the legislation. Despite the fact that Fidesz made this possible not only for the courts but also for the adoption of this Fundamental Law itself, not so many years ago, today, in 2018, the Minister of Justice is already holding press conferences about the fact that the courts have withdrawn the legislative right of Parliament. The reality may be that the government perceives this as a limitation to its own volitional function, and therefore force it at all costs to make quasi-binding the most inexorable, ungraded and self-absorbed ministerial or even representative justifications. It is enough to think of a bill aimed at concealing the spending of the Hungarian National Bank foundations. It stated in its reasoning that the funds allocated to the foundations would lose their public finances. The courts were then able to protect the rights of Hungarian citizens, and the public could learn about the spending of foundations. If this rule of interpretation had still existed, which they would now want to accept, it is not certain that the courts would have been able to carry out their task. When ministers every week prove that Hungary has a democratic rule of law, it is shocking to hear them say that a judge comes to the point of simply starting to interpret the will of elected representatives of the people. Well, dear fellow Members, this is precisely what they are doing on the basis of the principle of power-sharing, because the principle of unity of power is primarily a matter of authoritarian regimes in South America and Asia; examples of this can be given in Hungarian history. The most effective intention to amend the draft is certainly to set up a separate administrative court system. Make no mistake, it is not a devil's idea in itself to further develop the administrative court or turn it into an independent organization. However, this is not the case here! It seems that the government is simply seeking revenge on the administrative judges of the Curia. The Minister of Justice's original proposal did not say at all that the Curia would cease to be the main body of the judicial system. The Administrative Supreme Court was originally supposed to be under the Curia. Now, however, the majority of the government that had terminated the independent administrative college of the Supreme Court six years ago and has not wanted to change the function of the Curia for two years suddenly realized the need for a fully independent higher administrative court. This step is no better than to get rid of the professionally autonomous judges of the Curia administration, who are self-propelled from the point of view of power, by the majority of the government. It is therefore difficult to view this intention differently than political revenge for electoral judges; especially if we consider that the Mansion has brought Fidesz to the surface of uncomfortable cases, from the use of tao money, through the public money allocated by the foundations of the MNB to the fidesz oligarchs, to the possibility of holding a referendum on Sunday. [[12.00]] This is pure political revenge, which is outrageous and amazing, because the courts defended the rights of Hungarian citizens. It cannot be overlooked that this proposal is once again a means of personal revenge. It seems that the enemy of the Fidesz authoriter system, who was almost at the heights of György Soros, was a judge of the law, András Baka, who was fairly attached to the norms of the rule of law, who was worth remembering here today, that you were removed from his office in 2011 by an unconstitutional amendment of the law, which he then won a lawsuit and had to pay the Hungarian State some HUF 31 million in damages for lawlessness. I suppose this amount was later paid, shamelessly, here by Gergely Gulyás, who defended the Parliament, with his own money, to the state register since then. After that, the college led by András Baka has not been lazy in recent years to side with taxpayers, the Hungarian people, in cases where the government wanted to hide billions of public money from its own citizens. No wonder, then, that the fist of the national cooperation system hits hard and, with another organizational transformation, re-ejects the former judge and his associates. Let's just say you're lucky, you could have been like Attorney General Ihasz, and you could be preparing for your conceptual trial. Let's just say it's more elegant. In the latter case, there might have been a hundred thousand people on the street again, and that's good for who, right? Even though the Teachers' Union has indicated in its message to the governing parties that the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law is attacking the unquestionable values of civil democracies at the expense of a long struggle, despite the request of the Medical Chamber that the National Assembly should prefer to fix the right of Hungarians to receive high-quality healthcare in the Fundamental Law, these requests have not been considered. To sum up, the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law partly serves to implement a net political power calculation and partly contains unstandard political communication lounges. Their common feature is that they are completely unfit to prevent illegal immigration, but Hungarians are deprived of their rights in the bloody struggles of centuries. This is true of freedom of expression and assembly as well as of judicial independence. Finally, I would ask the honourable pro-government representatives, politicians, to stop lying and the unfair discrediting of opposition parties to Parliament. The MSZP has never agreed to mandatory resettlement quotas. The most obvious evidence of this is that the EU's proposal in this regard was voted down by the MSZP with you within the framework of the so-called yellow flat procedure in this House. If you want a political consensus on this issue, withdraw this proposal and submit it in three separate proposals, as you have acknowledged that this salad law consists of three separate non-linked subjects. They thus make it clear to themselves that they have no real national consensus on this issue. It's all a political charade that we no longer wish to participate in. We regret that nothing seems to be sacred to you when it comes to party politics. But it is certainly not in the interests of the Hungarian people, which, let's face it, is very, very sad about a fundamental amendment. Thank you for listening.
u2018-06-05-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató, who is also speaking from this platform. We'll wait for Congressman to take over. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-06-05-46	Mr President, Dear House, Constitutionalisation, the amendment of the basic law in this case, in a normally functioning parliamentary democracy, is the peak of Parliament's work, its most important activity, its highest activity. Unfortunately, in the case of this proposal, however, neither the circumstances nor the proposal itself are suitable for a meaningful, important constitutional work to be done here, since the amendment of the Fundamental Law is not the result of organic development, it is not a solution to the serious dilemmas raised by life, it is not an extensive professional debate, it is a matter of political agreement, it is of current political interest. Of course, it is not the first time, it is not a coincidence that the Fundamental Law, once declared to be granite-solid, will now be amended in seven years. In fact, the majority of governments, allowing the seduction of constitutional power, now wish to settle all matters they consider necessary on the basis of their power interests with one quick act. This attitude further deepens the wound caused by the Fundamental Law, which replaced the Constitution of the Republic with one-sided political will. You're at war instead of government. This proposal is not a legal instrument, but a weapon of the cultural war against European values, the ideological heavy artillery of another battle of the slowly drifting battles out of Hungary from the European Union. Let's look at the proposal in detail. The first important element of the fundamental law amendment is that it raises the concept of constitutional identity and the protection of constitutional identity into a national creed. It mentions this article on shared sovereignty in the preamble, the Constitutional text, and complements the article on shared sovereignty in the European Union, without prejudice to the territorial unity, population, state form or state arrangement of Hungary. Legally, these rules are nothing new. The Union is based on transferred sovereignty, so Member States will only give up their own autonomy to the extent that the treaties they have adopted make this compulsory. Mr President, although you can criticise the Lisbon Treaty, Hungary has undertaken this Lisbon Treaty with EU accession, these are the rules of the game to which we have joined. By the way, this interpretation is also the unbroken practice of the Constitutional Court, which was last confirmed by the Ab Decision 22/2016. Let it be clear, of course, that this does not contradict EU law, as the Treaty of the Union also states in Article 4 (2) that the Union respects the equality of Member States before the Treaties and their national constitutional identity. So it is a rule that does not actually have legal effect, which sets out the existing legal situation in the EU and Hungary. This is not really an important element, but what we mean by constitutional identity. Mr. Minister has also quoted the fact that perhaps the most important, fundamental idea of this concept, its emergence, is rooted in the practice of the German Constitutional Court. But where does the German Constitutional Court come from? Because of the fact that there are rules of the basic German law which protect fundamental rights which cannot otherwise be changed in the constitutional order of Germany - and that the same rules protecting fundamental rights cannot be changed by an EU act. So this kind of concept is based on the fact that the text of the Constitution, the principles and values that appear in it, the protection and exercise of its rights are the political strength and common identity of the country as a community, and not some form of structured cultural, philosophical or even linguistic uniformity. But there is another concept of constitutional identity, and as far as we can see from this debate, that is what you claim. We have heard today that you want to protect the Christian European culture with these passages, so you want to tell us which culture, which world view, what history perception, what identity is desirable, which fits into the arbitraryly created, uniform identity. The Fundamental Law itself wants to define in the National Creed which traditions and values it considers desirable and to be followed. We believe in the Democratic Coalition that the foundation of the nation is the common defence and exercise of our rights; we believe that the Fundamental Law should guarantee equal rights for its Christian and non-Christian or non-religious citizens; that human dignity should equally benefit our fellow citizens regardless of the shade of their skin, their world view of who they love; that it is not the state that must tell us what we should think about a historical issue, what we believe in and what values we think are important. [[12.10]] We believe that the heart and soul of constitutional identity is the common defence of these equal rights; you believe that constitutional identity is a mandate to restrict freedoms by reference to a higher purpose. We can't support that. You are talking about Christian democracy; we want a democracy without a sign that gives all citizens of Hungary equal rights, which every citizen can feel to have. Compared to this, it is a small fact that the wording of the text is a negligee, for example, the proposal makes it the task of all public bodies to participate in the protection of constitutional identity. It is hard to imagine how disaster control or protective service will contribute to constitutional identity beyond putting the National Creed on the wall. This amendment of the Fundamental Law therefore does not serve any specific purpose, does not contribute in any way to the enforcement of the rights of the Hungarian people, it is only intended to launch another ideological war on this basis against the European Union, our European allies. There are also far more serious direct consequences of the provisions restricting the independence of the courts. It is true that the government had previously intended to create independent administrative judicial action, and, as we know, it has tried strongly unconstitutionally. However, the intention alone would be acceptable, the way it is implemented is what is unacceptable. First of all, the government here wants a blank check. It asks for authorisation to set up an independent administrative court or even a court organisation without a line of laws or judicial bodies on the basis of which they intend to build. In other words, the Parliament must decide without knowing exactly what the government will use this mandate for. However, it is clear that the proposal also goes beyond the government's previous intentions to detract from the powers of ordinary courts. It shall establish a complete parallel administrative judicial system and shall exclude from the powers of the existing judicial system, administrative actions, including public disclosure of data of general interest, the review of administrative decisions and likely cases of elections. He's totally taking the Mansion out of this system. It is difficult not to think that this is the most important objective of the proposal. The majority of governments take revenge on the Curia because they dared to make negative decisions for them, among other things, on the fact that the assets of the MNB foundations are public money; on DK's initiative to issue tao money data, another issue is that the Puskás Academy and Mr Mészáros have not implemented this judgment to this day; that there can be a referendum on the closing of the store on Sunday and, most recently, that there are irregular votes over the border in the envelope. You want to punish the Mansion because you cannot tolerate the existence of an organization that restricts their power by means of law. We also know that according to the plans previously published, which, we do not know whether they are valid or not, but Minister Trocsányi confirmed at the committee meeting that this is the way in which a large part of the leaders and judges will continue to plan for these courts, not with judicial practice from the court organisation, but from the administration. From this point on, if a citizen has a dispute with the State and goes to the administrative court, then it should be expected that judges who should judge the case against their own organisation, their own former colleagues, will judge the case. How can we expect independent judicial action in such a situation, how can we expect these appointed judges who have been transferred from public administration to really make a fair decision in the debates between the state and the law-seeking citizen, the state and economic organisations or even the state and the public, the public? From this point on, neither the law-abiding citizen nor the public can expect fair judgments in your domestic courts. That is precisely the purpose of establishing this court organisation. This limits not only the rights of stakeholders, but also undermines legal certainty, trust in the judicial system, and thus has a negative economic impact. The other rule concerning courts limits judicial discretion when, as a new rule, it requires courts to take into account, as a starting point for the interpretation of the law, the preamble to the law and the justification of the legislation. This, in essence, makes the right to serve politics once again, because from this point forward, the courts must judge not only on the basis of written law but on the basis of political intentions. This will then give rise to a number of occasions to challenge judgments which the government does not like, saying that the judge has not sufficiently reached the government's intention. In addition, on the basis of the justification, there is a further legislative intention here, so you want to lay down further rules on how the courts are bound, but we still know nothing about the details of this. The Democratic Coalition is convinced that democracy is based on the rule of law, independent justice. Compared to this, protecting citizens' rights against the state or even large companies, this guarantees the rule of law that is crucial for the economy. It is also clear, for example, from the Polish example, that the rule of law is one of the EU's most determined core values, and it is therefore quite clear that this violation will generate further conflicts, a further fight with the organisations and majority of the European Union. As regards the restriction of the assembly law and the right of expression, it sounds very nice when the government talks about the protection of privacy and home. But in fact, they are not defending the law here, but on the contrary, they are restricting the law. Minister Gulyás said that the aim is to protect politicians' houses and their neighbours from protests. Interestingly, this aspect was not of great interest to the Fidesz politicians when protests were organised in front of Ferenc Gyurcsány's house on several occasions. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: Villa! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Just as it is very specific that you speak about the protection of privacy, while in the laws of criminal proceedings you have opened not only a loophole, but a huge gate for unauthorized and uncontrollable wiretaps. There is no need to regulate the current amendment of the basic law. In the past, the legal order has protected privacy, and the courts have decided, on the basis of circumstances, on an individual basis, whether the assembly entails a disproportionate restriction on the right of others to privacy. However, the current legislation goes far beyond that, as it sets up a hierarchy of fundamental rights, and in this it subordinates the right of assembly and expression to the right to privacy. This means that not only does the protest become impossible in front of politicians' apartments, but, in essence, anywhere in public, as it can be said that it violates the rights of residents, so you will receive a blank cheque to ban almost any assembly you do not like. Although little is said by the authors, the proposal also provides for the possibility of restricting the right of expression on the basis of the same reference, which is also of great concern. To sum up, therefore, according to the Democratic Coalition, if the government is really interested in protecting the peace of the home, then take effective measures to save the thousands and thousands of foreign exchange legitimakers whose homes are in danger and prevent heartless evictions from the Fidesz municipalities in Stone and elsewhere. We would be partners in this, and we would not be limited to freedom of assembly. Finally, I would also like to talk about asylum. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Come on!]] After years of trying to fake the opposition's position, let us first clarify a few basic concepts. According to the Democratic Coalition, it is our duty to take in people fleeing war, dictatorship, violence. Ensuring asylum is an obligation that the Hungarian State has undertaken in international treaties, and EU legislation with our agreement also requires. But there should be no misunderstanding, not just us; that is what the Fundamental Law in force today says, and for example, that is what Viktor Orbán said in January this year, referring to the Pope, with full right. At the same time, it is not a fundamental human right to choose a place for a better life. Every country has the right to decide whether and to whom economic immigration is possible. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the current migration wave contains both genuine asylum seekers and economic immigrants of a mixed nature. In this situation, it is for the countries concerned to decide in a fair asylum procedure who is entitled to refugee status. [[12.20]] They and only them must be allowed in, they must have the right of residence. We, when criticising the government's asylum policy at times, ask for this fair procedure. The challenge posed by asylum seekers from the Middle East, Asia and Africa is real, but the destination country is not Hungary, but other countries of Europe. This is a common European challenge to which a common European response must be given. The Hungarian Government has consistently been hindering this common European response for five years now, and it then claims the European Union to be powerless on the grounds of this failure to respond. If something slows the European Union's response to this challenge, it is precisely the position of the Hungarian government and some similar governments for internal political reasons, their opposition to a common compromise. Therefore, no one aims at installing a mass of refugees on the basis of a decision taken by other institutions, forced on the country. All claims in this regard are misleading propaganda. The assessment of asylum applications is and will remain a national competence under all international and EU rules. Compared to this, the current amendment of the Fundamental Law does not bring any substantive change. The prohibition of introduction and the fact that refugee or immigrant status can only be obtained under Hungarian legislation does not mean any change. That is the case today, and it will remain so under EU law. In fact, the quota decision asked Hungary to conduct this asylum procedure, to decide whether they were refugees and to receive them. Just as the proposals for a revision of the Dublin system, which are still under discussion today, do not contain any rules that would deprive Member States of the right to assess asylum applications. Whatever the outcome of this debate, in which the Hungarian Government and even the Hungarian Parliament will be able to make their voice heard, it is certain that the examination of applications will continue to be a national competence, so this amendment to the basic law will not affect this issue. The other amendment on asylum highlights the concept of a safe third country known and accepted in international and EU law in the Fundamental Law. Although this wording is incomplete and the concept itself provides ways to abuse, the truth is that there are far greater problems with the asylum system. Once again, this amendment does not provide, does not extend the powers of the Hungarian asylum authorities, does not provide better protection or a better opportunity for the government to assess asylum applications, it does not actually mean anything new. However, border surveillance, control and registration of arrivals in the Union are indeed key in terms of security, and it is also the EU's obligation. By the way, this was missed by the Hungarian government in the summer of 2015. However, ensuring security and detecting radicals and criminals that may enter the country can only be effective in close European cooperation. Why this does not work, for example, in the field of national security services, in the field of secret services, Ms Ágnes Vadi spoke in her speech before the agenda. Because this would require Hungary to commit itself to the interests of Hungary and the common European interests and not to foreign interests, as you often do in the case of Russia. Based on the experience, it is also clear that abuses in relation to the establishment obligation, visa issue and preferential localisation pose a much greater security risk for Hungary and the European Union than the arrival of refugees. To sum up, these proposals do not facilitate rapid, equitable and effective management of asylum applications and do not contribute to the country's security. In summary, the content and protection of constitutional identity, the establishment of an administrative court organisation, the lifting of conflicts of competing fundamental rights, the constitutional treatment of asylum matters are all matters that can and must be discussed. It is also possible that there is one among these which justifies the amendment of the Fundamental Law. We therefore consider it necessary to have a substantive, calm, non-hating, professional, social and political debate on these issues. However, this proposal is not the result of such a debate, but only a dictatorship of government power, so it is unacceptable to us in its entirety and in its details. The aim of the proposal is not legal, but political. Its aim is to limit the rights of Hungarian citizens and create a new conflict with the European Union. DK has long warned the country that it must choose: Orbán or Europe is not possible together. The Democratic Coalition chooses Europe and therefore votes against the fundamental law amendment contrary to European standards and violating the rights of Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-06-05-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Lóránt László Keresztes is the lead speaker of the LMP Group, who will also give his speech here on the stand. We'll wait for Congressman to take over. [[It's happening.]] Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-06-05-48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is a somewhat more grateful task, I think, to be around the end of the list of speakers, because it is possible, at least limited to respond to what is before us. I think it's going to be very instructive if I take a few minutes to do that. I think that from the government's presentation, from the Minister's speech and from the opposition of the pro-government factions, we can also see that they do not really want to talk about the real problem, but that they want to continue the communication campaign that we have seen in recent years. My fellow Members have expressed their concern that the government does not really want to address this problem, so it does not want to have a deep, clear, understandable and honest debate about the migration crisis, and it does not want to lead action towards solutions, but rather wants to maintain this issue as a political means of communication at least until the elections to the European Parliament. At the same time, I think that it would be a wrong opposition reaction if we went across the horse and talked about everything else, on extremely important, depressing social and economic issues, and tried not to talk about this crisis. I think that the opposition has made mistakes over the past period in that it has not made clear enough about these issues, and we do have a task in that regard, too, to contribute to the real debate on the roots of the problems and their possible extent, to genuine, deep debates, and to really see what is expected of this issue in the medium term, and to start talking about real solutions. I would like to talk less about other social issues in this speech, more specifically about the problem raised in the amendment of the basic law, so I would like to talk about the problem of the migration crisis. In this context, I would also like to say how the LMP, as an eco-political party, sees how it views this issue. Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, expressed a slightly false notion that he hoped that a national minimum would be established on this issue and that we would be able to support the proposals of the governing party in a uniform manner in relation to the amendment of the basic law and the so-called Stop Soros amendment. I think that this was clearly a communication catch, because you know it, because it is part of the government machinery that these two proposals have been prepared so that there is no way that this opposition can accept it. Several of my fellow Members have indicated that if the government had taken this problem sufficiently seriously, the problem of the global migration crisis, it would not have hidden it in such a salad proposal, it would not have included elements that could otherwise be the subject of debates, but certainly not on a serious issue such as the migration crisis. I think that the government has degraded this problem by submitting a proposal for salad, by introducing elements that are clearly unacceptable and trying to ensure that the opposition does not vote in favour of this issue. Nevertheless, I think that we can hold a debate, and if nothing else, this debate on the amendment of the basic law will certainly be good for us to try to open up the debate on this issue. We therefore consider it extremely important that we speak about these issues separately, which is the problem itself, the subject itself, which is an extremely serious and serious problem, and I will speak separately about this specific proposal by the government, which I believe is not the solution. When I say that an open, extensive debate must be held on this issue, I mean that we should talk about the fact that in 2015 we too experienced the waves of this global migration crisis that had already reached Hungary to such a great extent. [[12.30]] But we need to talk about the effects that will be expected in the medium term in this regard, so how this crisis will be deepened and how it can be dealt with and how we should act now to reduce the volume of this already. It is clear that the challenge will only increase compared to what is currently seen. There has also been no open debate on the specific causes of this migration crisis, the migratory pressure. In this way, it has not been mentioned either at national level or in European politics, or beyond, what measures must be taken to reduce or eliminate these causes. In this respect, we see a great deal of movement on the part of the government when concluding various agreements, for example in support of free trade agreements, which will also strengthen the processes that are one of the root causes of this global migration crisis. So, overall, I have to say on this proposal that the government has done everything in its power to make this not acceptable. He added elements that would exclude us from voting and did not attempt, not even at the level of justification, to start the debate on the root causes of the problems. Then let's look at the problems we're talking about. The Members who spoke before me, especially those who are pro-government representatives, have very often linked Hungarian politics and the sovereignty of our country by playing a role in Europe, and we are part of a European community, the European Union. I, too, fully agree with the statement that our national sovereignty must be preserved. At the same time, we are making joint decisions on some issues, and indeed, when it comes to resolving the migration crisis, there are many issues in which we need to act together, we need to take decisions together, and not only within the European Union, but also taking into account other partners. We need to talk about that, too. Therefore, the LMP, as an ecopolitical party, has a very clear and firm position on the causes and phenomenon of the current migration crisis. By the way, as a member of the Committee of the European Union, I have also represented this in the political debates in Brussels over the last three years, and unfortunately I have found that there has not been a meaningful dialogue on this issue in European politics. One of the speakers before me has indicated that it is an unprecedented process that we are now facing. I agree perfectly with this, indeed, many migration processes, experiences and migration, immigration and asylum have always been present, but we are now witnessing something that is truly unprecedented. There are several reasons why we are facing a phenomenon that has not been seen before, and why we need to take this approach to solving and dealing with this issue. We experienced it here in 2015 when we reached Hungary's border with this migration process, a migration crisis, and we saw that only a part of the arrivals fled from concrete persecution or from the other effects of climate change. We also found that many times the issuing countries could not be identified. In the context of this migration wave, we have found that most countries and the Union themselves have not been able to really deal with this issue, and have not been able to address this problem. This has created quite chaotic situations, we can say that it was one of the most serious crises in the functioning of the Union when EU policy, EU decision-making, faced with this issue. We also need to say that it is extremely important that, in addition to the fact that the country of issue of arrival cannot be accurately defined, we do not even know exactly how much replacement of this migration process will be, so we do not see the end of it. I think that if we begin to discuss the reasons, then we can also see that it is no wonder that we do not actually see the end and that we need to prepare ourselves for a crisis that will be here with us for decades and we need to fight against the negative effects of this. Let us look at the reasons why this crisis came here a few years ago, and why politics has started talking about it now, why we have started to deal with it so actively now. On the one hand, it was apparent that information had not been available in the current issuing countries, that there was no possibility, and in this way the intention was not to start this kind of migration. We also know that the construction and construction of human smuggling networks function as a catalyst in itself. It was also apparent that powerful interests had set up different regimes and then failed them, and that certain conflicting states, buffer States, had stopped this pressure so far. The effect of this is that a process of this magnitude has suddenly begun. But if we are talking about deeper causes, roots, then we must say that the most important reason for this type of migration wave is the scale and system of global imbalances. You can see the extent to which the countries of the center are striving to exploit peripherals, to rob their resources. In fact, many times global multinational corporations take the lead in this. The various geopolitical battles, the pursuit of geopolitical interests, also play a very important role in the emergence of such conflicts and conflicts of war. And the fact that, unfortunately, one of the most profitable businesses is the war and the production of weapons is indeed a very serious cause for these particular war conflicts, which are part of the root causes of migration. These issues, these big corporate interests, the effects of free trade are hardly mentioned. In fact, this government has made it clear several times, not so long ago, that it supports the system of free trade, which allows for the expansion of profit hunger. In this context, the May Other Politics has also launched a lot of debates in recent cycles, and a concrete decision proposal has also been accepted by András Schiffer, former leader of the LMP faction. We regret that the government, the government of Fidesz, in complete opposition to these directions, is a supporter of the further expansion of global unlimited free trade, which, we can say, is an effect of this process. It is worth talking about, although I have mentioned that European policy has not been able to deal with this situation, and it is still not. But it is worth talking about what we have experienced, what we have seen in European politics. The speakers before me also said that we must put ourselves in a certain way in the system in which we are in this matter. Therefore, on certain issues, it must be possible to act jointly, even to protect the EU's external borders, is such an extremely important requirement for EU citizens. What I have seen, because I have mentioned once again that I have served national interests in the EU Region Committee for three years, is that even to this day, European policy has not been able to get to the point of speaking honestly about these problems. There are issues such as, say, the issue of social inclusion, which still cannot be the subject of open and honest political debates. But the interests of arms companies, the techniques of advocacy of large companies, global multinational companies, are not really mentioned in European politics. However, there is no mention of the impact that climate change is expected to have on migratory pressures in the medium term, or of the impact that a reduction in the potential for agricultural production in the current issuing areas will have, and what action would be needed to compensate for this. That's practically out of the question. There are quite hypocritical approaches in the EU. On the one hand, there are those who say that this type of migratory pressure or this process in some kind of demographic approach can be positive for an ageing continent. I think that this is a completely irresponsible and shocking approach, given that those who think that hundreds of thousands of young people coming to Europe will in some way be a replacement here in the poor demographic situation do not think that the issuing regions will lose generations in this way, and that it will be impossible for anyone to organise a state at all in these issuing areas, in the now collapsing states. It is not difficult to conclude that if these states are permanently collapsing and these regions lose a significant proportion of their young generations, this conflict will become permanent. So I think that it is absolutely extremely irresponsible and hypocritical to approach this issue in this way. Perhaps even more reprehensible is that attitude, and this too, can be said to be formulated mainly by lobbyists from multinational companies, that they see some sort of inexpensive labour supply potential in the context of migratory pressure. Similarly, as I have just justified, this is an extremely hypocritical and despicable approach. And unfortunately, European policy has ventured to the point that when a terrible incident occurred a few years ago, when a ship sank in the Mediterranean and hundreds of refugees lost their lives, then, quite rightly, the Committee of the Region issued a communication and expressed its sympathy for the deceased. [[12.40]] But in the same text, a few lines later, he talked about what a great opportunity for labour supply this kind of crisis is. So I think we can conclude together that EU policy has not been able to deal with this situation, but neither has the Hungarian government, or, let us say, politicians from other European governments, taken effective steps to talk about these issues at European level. From what the government has done so far, although I do not want to repeat the opposition colleagues who have spoken before me, it is quite clear that the government has committed the most serious mistake and the most serious sin by carrying out a truly astonishing campaign of hatred and having had such drastic effects in Hungarian society that it is difficult to see how it can be reversed. My fellow Members have mentioned the case of the old, but I have also encountered countless cases where people living in the countryside are intimidated at such a level that completely irrational fears determine their lives in relation to what the government has achieved with its hate propaganda. For such an extensive propaganda of hatred, you might say you've already done an instigation, only the surface of the government's communication in this regard, and you wish to operate exclusively with pipe-end solutions and symptomatic treatments. So it has not even occurred to the Hungarian government to participate at international level in some way, according to its weight, let us say at the level of the European Union, in order to address this issue at least at the root of the problems. So we can say, and in this I agree perfectly with my fellow opposition Members, that it is not the solutions that are being addressed by the government. It wants to keep this policy focused on communication so that it can ensure its own political survival. As a matter of fact, we experienced this directly in 2015 when this issue was not at the heart of the government's communication. You may also know that the government of Viktor Orbán, who wished to establish a temporary reception camp in a government decree for a small settlement near Pécs, Martonfa. We are talking about sovereignty and self-determination here, quite rightly, but this government has forgotten that small communities, settlements or even the city of Pécs have the right to decide for themselves on issues about it. Indeed, this government, when the entire opposition almost unanimously supported Martonfa's courageous self-government that such decisions could not be taken through the population of a settlement, was the government that accused the opposition of populism, the Fidesz government accused the opposition of populism in this regard. Then it took a few months for this issue to appear as a central government directive, and since then the government of Viktor Orbán has had almost nothing else to say to Hungarian society. So this can confirm it, and we, Pécs, can see that this is only a communication catch for the government. I would like to briefly explain how the LMP views this process. This is extremely important for us to be able to talk about what solutions we consider appropriate. As I have already mentioned, an ecopolitical party can certainly only consider this type of global crisis as a negative phenomenon. We believe that it is unacceptable that such pressure, such a powerful migration, is skimming the issuing countries, in fact, these countries are losing the very important parts of their society, losing their labour force, and losing their resources, by the way. So we can definitely see this as a negative process. We also see that there are very many problems with integration. We know that many people come from different cultural settings to Europe, and we can see, especially in the cities of Western Europe, that there are cultural conflicts, there are difficulties with integration. I would like to add that there is no political debate on this, either in substance and in line with the gravity of the problem. Helmut Schmidt was the last politician in a European format as the Social Democratic politician who knew and because he knew, in a fair and honest way, to speak about these problems and challenges. I think this is certainly a warning sign that, for some reason, these issues can no longer be debated in substance, and with this political forces are actually letting the extremists in the field, and this kind of policy is putting their heads in the sand by the actors of traditional political parties, which opens the way for extremists who do not offer real solutions. The LMP therefore considers it extremely important to explore the problems and to have an honest and open, deep debate on them. We see this as clear, and this is our strong position that immigration policy must be kept in national competence. The LMP has always made it clear that it does not support any open quota from above. It is a clear expectation for the citizens of the Union that we must be able to protect the external borders of the Union, because if we do not defend the external borders of the Union, if we do not stop the process of illegal migration, if these processes are not under full control and full control, then no other policy can be spoken of until then. So symptomatic treatment is not enough, this is the most important message of the LMP to the Hungarian Parliament as well. Most importantly, in this respect, what purpose should be set if we are talking about solving this crisis and dealing with these problems. We put it this way that our goal must be to reach out to everyone in their homeland. I think that's the most important thing, and that's in everyone's best interests. A little more detail on the bill, seeking not to repeat my opposition fellow Members. We therefore find it unacceptable that the Government has introduced elements in the amendment of the Fundamental Law on such an important issue which are absolutely non-existent. These, the proposal of the administrative courts, could otherwise be discussed in detail, but I would not agree to that. I think there is a particular issue, and even if there is, this is a particular issue when it is not allowed, even if the government is trying to build political capital in this way, to shift the debate in another direction. The amendment to the Fundamental Law has some findings that can be said to be agreed. These are texts with which there is no need, no need to argue, and one can say that there is a kind of consensus on the content of these issues, but these additions are neither a real solution nor a change in the current legal situation. So it is also a communication procedure that the government, after the election victory, tries to do something that it can later present as a reference in its communication. I am saying, with these findings, especially those of our national self and identity, everyone can, of course, agree, but I do not think that they are a response to this problem and a solution to this crisis. I would also like to mention the restriction of the right of assembly. I think that this is the element that the government has placed as a guarantee in the amendment of the basic law, so that it can be quite sure that opposition parties will not be able to accept it. Indeed, we have been constructive, and I myself have gone to the information convened by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. We asked our questions and, in today's political context, I think it was even relatively constructive, it was even possible to ask questions, it was also answered, but these answers were not really adequate in substance. We have also raised the possibility of restricting the right of assembly, indeed, as my fellow Members have already said, that it is not, in fact, a question of trying to protect the privacy of certain politicians in this way. Here he sets up a rubber rule, creating a situation where a situation might arise, I don't know who, perhaps my fellow Member Bell, said - that protests cannot be held in an indoor residential area. I think that, in itself, this effort to protect the private sector from the negative effects of political demonstrations is a legitimate effort, but it could have been achieved by responsible legislation without creating a situation that would be completely and clearly unacceptable. But I'm telling you, for now, it's a feeling and an understanding of the current situation on our part. Such a situation is emerging, which we cannot accept in itself. It was also mentioned at this meeting that the amendment of the assembly law is also likely to be on the agenda. We believe that this is, in itself, a very bad sign that the government is trying to create a legal situation that will enable it to act more effectively with regard to its political interest by restricting the right to assembly, by trying to create more tools for itself. So I think that this is a step which, let me say, is a clear proof that the government wanted to propose an unacceptable amendment to the basic law, even though it may be a legitimate intention to take this step to protect the private sector. Overall, I say that a debate was launched on an extremely important issue. This debate, I hope, will give us the opportunity to discuss the background and roots of the problems in substantive debates and perhaps to get there in Hungarian politics and national politics and European politics to really start talking about real solutions. [[12.50]] Overall, we see, and the opinion of the LMP is that in this form this proposal cannot be supported, so we are very confident that, before the vote, the government will reevaluate its own steps and assess that this issue itself is so important that it presents a separate, coherent proposal that can indeed express a national consensus. I believe that if the government acts as a responsible force, it will move in this direction, withdraw this proposal and create a situation in which a national consensus can be established. But this material cannot establish such a national consensus. Thank you.
u2018-06-05-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Dialogue, the lead speaker of the PM Group, is Ms Szabó Timea. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-06-05-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Many have already said before me that it is unacceptable not only to amend the basic law in substance, but to present it as such a salad. Nor is the Fundamental Law, which they themselves call granite-solid, respected enough to present at least an amendment that is truly worthy of a Fundamental Law. It's not a granite-solid law, it's a cotton candy basic law. Moreover, most of the current amendments are completely incomprehensible, inapprehensible, and will no longer provide any support to the judges, the Constitutional Court, and they will not be able to rely on this, for example, on the assembly, as they have not been able to do in recent years. A good part of this package of amendments, the salad, is just a political string to distract attention from real problems and real problems in the country, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to hide filth such as the creation of Fidesz courts, which, of course, you do not want to talk about. On the one hand, this Fundamental Law seeks to distract attention from real problems, such as the total destruction of health care, that most Hungarians no longer have access to free and high-quality care; or that pensions have practically not increased for years; or that catastrophic demographic indicators, which I spoke about yesterday before the agenda, are not only increasing the number of children's births, but decreasing sharply. That's what you're trying to draw attention to again in relation to all ninety-year-olds. What has been presented in this amendment to the basic law is despicable is the destruction of justice, instead the creation of a Fidesz court, or the attempt to restrict freedom of assembly. It was said here that there was a so-called information to Sándor Pintér and László Trócsányi last week, but the problem with this information was that the ministers could not answer any substantive questions. It also showed that this is completely unfounded professionally, not only the amendment of the basic law, but also the amendment of the next law to be negotiated. They have not been able to answer any technical questions, such as how they meet the requirement of clarity. The lie package that you are pushing here with this entire amendment is amazing, as stupid as you think Hungarian people are. They're coming here with the aliens moving in that they're about to put it into the Fundamental Law. So far, it has not been possible to install alien peoples in Hungary, and they are now acting as if they have introduced something huge innovators and novelties into this amendment proposal. It's also pathetic what Csaba Dömötör said earlier. But even though you are trying to hide the truth, it will not succeed, there are many of us here in this House to try to highlight the reality of your lies. But let's go in line, then. The issue of the resettlement of foreign peoples, asylum and asylum. This whole package of proposals is completely pointless, and it is only for you to continue the false campaign of hatred, the intimidation that unfortunately managed to win the electorate, which led to the deception of the majority of Hungarian people. We know precisely that, by the way, if we are talking about EU law, and once again, Brussels is one of the enemies of Hungarian public law who has not recognised the primacy of EU law over the Hungarian Constitution, the accession clause, which has been in force for 14 years, contains two barriers to the law of the European Union. Moreover, the joke is that if you really want to prevent a compulsory resettlement quota here, it is not suitable either, because this current amendment will not prevent it. It was nice, of course, to listen to Matthew Kocsis's speech, who said here about the quota referendum that we should listen to the Hungarian people who voted on this. I would like to point out that the quota vote was invalid. So you may not have taken note of this, but this was invalid. So there were many who either did not consider this to be Hungary's real problem or voted against it. So it can be twisted and twisted, but the lie you're pushing about it remains a lie. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Máté Kocsis said that he hoped to find a partner in us in creating and operating their lie factories. Rather, we hope that we will find a partner in you to stop lying together, and while it was a quota referendum, we really should respect the will of the Hungarian people who said that this referendum should be invalid. [[Happy István: Is that what the Hungarian people said?]] Yeah, that's what they said. With regard to the extension of the constitutional duties of the police with regard to border surveillance: it is quite clear that the police have already carried out such activities, and are now being included in the Fundamental Law in order to legitimise this in some way. By the way, once again, they are not dealing with the real problems, the fact that border surveillance makes it difficult for police officers outside the borders to carry out their primary duties, there is a shortage of police personnel in cities and small towns. Rather, it should be addressed, my fellow members of the Government, that you really appreciate the work of the police, that you pay the Hungarian police a decent salary, that you pay overtime, that is to say, those police officers who are serving at the border, that they should have the right conditions there. In the midst of the refugee crisis, we found that they had been in police force for 12 to 24 hours without food and thirst. Photo reports of this have been published. You can deny that, I know you love to keep the truth quiet all the time, but that still happened, unfortunately. Among other things, photos appeared where policemen on the border used a stick to dry their wet boots in the middle of the field, because they did not receive any care, they could not go home for 24 hours, they did not even get proper accommodation. That's it. Let's look at the third one, which is one more serious, it's a matter of assembly. On this point, my fellow opposition Members have already said quite a lot. You have spoken about the sanctity of the home, the rights of the private sector, and here László Trócsányi specifically mentioned the drones, and perhaps even Máté Kocsis. Let's start with the fact that, on your behalf, you're not to board, let's say, over Gábor Vona's house, a drone monitoring his children. This does not require any amendment of the Fundamental Law, which requires you to stop this despicable behavior and not spy on opposition representatives. Or on your behalf, the reporter on TV2 shouldn't be cameraing through the window of Peter Juhász's private apartment. That doesn't require any fundamental law amendment, so you guys need to stop this filthy behavior, don't give your lackeys these orders, and then there'll be nothing wrong with this country. By the way, the problem with this amendment is that it will not solve the problem in any way with regard to the assembly. Because we also acknowledge the need to protect the private sector, the whole problem only started in 2014, at the protest in front of Viktor Orbán's house, when foreign exchange creditors wanted to present it there, and then they prevented it by administrative means. [[13.00]] At that time, the Constitutional Court was unable to make a substantive decision, and it also asked the legislators to find a way to remedy the question of how, if two fundamental rights conflict, the protection of the private sector or freedom of assembly, which should be applied. In most cases, the courts can apply this, but there are cases where they cannot, for example, in this case they could not. For four years now, you have not been able to make a substantial contribution to the assembly law in order to really help the judges in this area. The problem, as has been said here, is that, once again, this amendment does not meet the requirement of clarity: from now on, it is a question of what is important to protect the private sector. Will it also be the protection of the private sector if someone, say, wants to hold a protest on constitutional street? There are people living on the street of the Constitution, and there can be a simple protest. We agree that, let's say, in a suburban part, we should not be able to blubber at night, because that is really disturbing, but how long does this extend, fellow Members? In no way does this current amendment of the basic law reflect this, but it gives us the opportunity to apply completely arbitrary law, especially if you set up the Fidesz courts and give us virtually the opportunity to not hold protests in any form whatsoever. We also asked László Trócsányi and Sándor Pintér about this. Unlike my fellow Member of the LMP, I would not consider this kind of information to be such a constructive discussion, precisely because the constructive discussion, if we get real answers to our questions, and then, as the two ministers have promised, will take into account our concerns, our proposals, and they will in some way incorporate them, but this has not happened, and I very much doubt that this will take place in any form. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The fourth and the meanest amendment to this Fundamental Law, which was hardly mentioned here in the ministerial exposé, but even in the speech of Fidesz or KDNP, is the establishment of a system of administrative judicial organizations. Neither László Trócsányi nor Sándor Pintér could give any meaningful answers, and they could not explain in substance why this court needed to be set up. It is absolutely clear to us, because they will certainly not say that this is nothing but that Viktor Orbán simply fulfills his threats on 15 March and takes legal and political satisfaction on those whom he considers to be his enemies, who are trying to prevent his rampage in any democratic and legitimate way, whether it be a civil organization, whether it be a congregation of private people or a court right now. In English: with this proposal, Fidesz and the ruling parties want revenge on the independent Curia and the courts, they want to end the independent justice system, so they want to close the gates of democracy for good, eliminate the remnants of the rule of law; this proposal is nothing else. Viktor Orbán simply wants to turn Hungary into North Korea, and he no longer chooses any tools. It's not that... [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You can spew, unfortunately, that's true, and this is the most humiliating part of this whole amendment to the basic law, and I would stress that there's no reason why you don't talk about it. Orbán wants to establish a Fidesz court. Why? Because the majority of the government wants to get rid of the professionally too autonomous Curia administrative judges, it's that simple. Viktor Orbán himself sent a message after the election, and I quote that the Curia did not grow intellectually to its task, because the Supreme Court said that it had intervened seriously in the election after it approved the decision of the National Election Committee, which had taken a list of seats from the governing parties by canceling a letter vote from over four thousand borders. Or let us think of the cases initiated by the Fidesz Commissioner for Accountancy, which made it to the indictment at all; there were not many of them. The courts gave a partial acquittal, partly with substantially lower sanctions than expected, and then last year, let us remember, at the end of the year Gyula Budai simply came to the whole Hungarian court. In view of this, it is therefore difficult to view this proposal as simply political revenge. This is the level of political vengeance, honourable Members, that was the last case against the Supreme Court judges during the reprisal after the 1956 Revolution. The Fidesz Supreme Court will certainly be filled with people loyal to the government, government officials with legal exams, who have socialised in a completely different context compared to those who have passed the ladder. We have no doubts about this, because independence cannot be mentioned in the public administration, we know this precisely, because the system is clearly based on a subordination relationship. By the way, by November this year, the number of administrative judges should have been increased by two hundred on the basis of a decision from last year, so the courts will have reliable Fidesz soldiers. And if, in the course of disputes between the state and its citizens made by stick-making judges who have previously become accustomed to acting on orders, of course, we know exactly how difficult it will be for them to get rid of this nerve. Think about what such a judge or court would do if it were an embarrassing matter for Viktor Orbán; if, let us say, a billion-dollar VAT dealer, an entrepreneur close to the government, do not give up, István Tiborcz's award of a public tender, an objection affecting the outcome of the elections, or perhaps the assessment of an embarrassing public interest request for data for the government is at stake. We know exactly what we can expect in the case of a judge appointed by you. By the way, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, in the first government brief he held, said that Parliament would elect the President of the Supreme Court by a two-thirds majority. After the rules of the game are determined by Fidesz, it is quite clear that the organization can be led by a government official, not by an incumbent judge, but by a proven government official. It's clear to us, at least, but I think it's clear to you. In one case, it would be believable that the new court is not the home court of Fidesz: if the judges of the administration of the Curia were automatically taken over by this new court, i.e. they should not apply or be selected among these judges in any other way. But when I asked Minister László Trócsányi on this so-called information whether it would be automatic to accept these judges or to apply in any way, he said that there would be no automatic, that a committee would stand up and that some competition would decide who could continue the work. Ladies and gentlemen, But this is one part of your desire to use this new Fidesz court for political purposes; there are other, much more banal reasons for creating this: that you love to steal, and you refuse to give up this habit. They intend to continue to drain EU funds and refuse to examine public procurement, or, obviously, if there is any problem with the acquisition of these EU public procurements, they will be assigned to this new Fidesz judge employed by the new Fidesz court. But neither will political revenge, honourable Members, nor will we allow any further expansion or theft of EU public procurement, and we will go through the appropriate forums in order to prevent this. I am afraid that, while you have been pushing the borders of the Union properly, neither your party family, from which you are about to be thrown out, nor the whole Union will allow this to happen now. One last thing: if you want to carve this cotton candy Fundamental Law at all costs, let me give you some useful tips on behalf of the Dialogue that would really serve the interests of the whole Hungarian community. For example, restore the social security based on the risk community, which you have removed from the Fundamental Law, i.e. ensure that all Hungarians can obtain free quality healthcare. [[13.10]] You took this out of the Fundamental Law for a reason, you started privatizing health care, destroying patient care, just so that you can distribute it to your own friends in private care, where everyone can pay if you want a decent standard of patient care. Put social security back in the Fundamental Law, that's what we'll be able to support. Or the right to housing is enshrined in the Fundamental Law! We know exactly that 900,000 people are aware of the 900 thousand implementation procedures in Hungary against debtors. Hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today are terrified of being evicted. Just yesterday, I told the story of the woman, the woman with several children, whose hand was cut off by a bad machine, so she lost her job, couldn't pay her credit, and she's about to be evicted. Why aren't you helping these people? Why not amend the Fundamental Law in this direction? Or restore the system of brakes and counterweights, free the institutions of the Constitutional Court, the NAV, the SAO, the Public Prosecutor's Office or even the Hungarian National Bank from their own Fidesz party soldiers, we will be able to support it. Either restore the status of churches before 2012, promote equality between families, introduce a fair and proportionate electoral system, or end and end the ongoing persecution and punishment of homeless people or other vulnerable social groups. We will be able to support these amendments to the basic law, honourable Members. The amendments that we could support could be classified for a long and long time. We will not be able to support this present package, which you have submitted, which is vile and lying. It would be good if, for once, a Fundamental Law was written, which is formed together with the people, and which is supported not by one-party support, but also by the majority of Hungarian people. Thank you.
u2018-06-05-51	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if there are any independent representatives' contributions. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, The general debate will be adjourned and will continue on this day. There will be a general debate on the bill amending individual laws on measures to combat illegal immigration until closure. The government referral is T/333. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-05-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is the first for the national government. In accordance with the clear will of the Hungarian people expressed in elections, the government submitted to Parliament an action plan to protect Hungary, because we need to protect Hungary and the Christian culture from illegal migration. The Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice held a joint seven-party briefing with the parliamentary factions on 30 May 2018. Minister Sándor Pintér asked the participants to make proposals, which will be considered by the Ministry. There has been no proposal from any faction so far. Our proposal consists of two parts. One is the amendment of the Fundamental Law, which has just been negotiated by this House, and the other is the Stop Soros legislative package amending the Criminal Code. The essence of the Stop Soros legislative package is that it can be punished if someone organises illegal migration or encourages circumvention of Hungarian laws to this end. Today, Hungary and its government are being attacked because it stands in the way of Plan Soros, which is becoming increasingly urgent for our opponents. In the period ahead, we have to deal with the mandatory quotas planned by Brussels, and we also have to count on millions of people moving to Europe from Africa and the Middle East. The technical, living and legal border closure, built by the government, has so far protected Hungary, but in the future we need more protection. The Hungarian Parliament must therefore defend the country, bearing in mind the fully explicit will of the Hungarian people, as the main body of popular representation. Dear Parliament, I will now present the sections of the bill to the Honourable Parliament. Article 1 I'll start with section 1. In the light of the provisions of the Fundamental Law and the migratory pressure on Hungary, it is appropriate to establish the guarantee of police action against illegal immigration. As border control in Hungary falls within the competence of the police, we propose supplementing the police law with the powers to prevent illegal immigration. 2. §: the institution of border insurance detention will be introduced. Suspects of the destruction of certain immigration-related offences, such as smuggling of human beings or border seals, should not be allowed to stay within the state border and within a range of 8 kilometres. With the introduction of a new police measure, the police will be able to fulfil their obligation to protect the state borders laid down in the Fundamental Law. The bill states that anyone who violates his obligation to maintain a border insurance policy is in breach of the law. The proposed bill 3. §2 of the Act provides the police with the possibility to process suspects' data in the event of such offences, thus bridging the period until the data are uploaded to the criminal record system. Article 4 and 5 § XIV of the Fundamental Law It contains technical amendments to the proposal, which are necessary for the purpose of amending Article 61. 6. § 7: According to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, the fundamental rules governing the lodging of applications for the residence in Hungary of foreigners who do not have the right of free movement are laid down by a fundamental law, so it was necessary to apply for the entry and residence of third-country nationals II of 2007 on entry and residence of third-country nationals. In relation to the provisions laid down in the Fundamental Law, provision is made for fundamentality in respect of the procedural requirements laid down. The bill submitted is 7. §8: the amendment to the Asylum Act means that an application for asylum cannot be accepted if the applicant has arrived in Hungary through a country where he was not in direct danger. This means that Hungary does not accept asylum applications for immigrants who are not being persecuted. Dear Parliament, It should be stated in the State Border Act that, because of the offences related to border protection and to the order of the state, the person under proceedings may not be present within a distance of 8 km from the border mark. This proposal is part of Article 8 of the proposal. §2 of the Act states. 9. §: for the purpose of carrying out the police's task in relation to border insurance detention, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of transferring data from the criminal record system. Data transfer is only possible if the person to be checked is prosecuted for the crimes identified. Article 10 § 2 states that the Law on State Borders defines a circle of persons who, because of their conduct contrary to the Criminal Code, cannot reside in an area defined by the Law on State Borders. In order to verify this, the police are entitled, but the police should be given the opportunity to impose appropriate sanctions in the event that the person does not comply with his statutory obligations. In the event of repeated infringement, the law already contains the procedural rules ensuring the gradual nature of the infringement. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill tabled is 11. § 2 of the Criminal Code introduces a new criminal case. The proposal provides for effective and effective action to be taken against the organisation of illegal immigration by establishing the facts of illegal immigration. It should be stressed that the aim of the bill is to sanction the organisation of the activities. [[13.20]] We therefore want to punish the organising activity that is capable of allowing people who come from countries where they are not directly at risk to initiate the asylum procedure. The organizing activity may also be aimed at obtaining a residence title for the person entering Hungary illegally. The bill will therefore make the organisation of illegal immigration punishable, and it will be a classified case if someone helps illegal immigration by means of material means or carries on their activities on a regular basis. In particular, the organisation of border monitoring, the preparation, dissemination and networking of information materials are organised. The promotion of illegal immigration as a criminal offence is subject to detention and there is room for banning its perpetrator from a zone of 8 kilometres. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill is 12 and 13. § 2 of the Act defines the entry into force of the amendments to the law concerned. The Rtv. Subject to its provisions, it shall contain the essentiality clause. The legislative amendments contained in this bill, Honourable Parliament, are an adequate guarantee of effective action against illegal immigration. I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support the proposal, as it will also contribute to further strengthening the security of the Hungarian people and Hungary and to ensuring that Hungary does not become an immigrant country. Thank you for your attention, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and accept this proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. In the meantime, two-minute speeches are not possible. First, I give the floor to Lajos Kósa, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2018-06-05-54	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, At a time when we are discussing the Stop Soros legislative package, we would like to find solutions to some of the problems that are not at the root of the problem, but to what is causing the greatest tension in our system, which, although previously classified as a fidesz pseudo-problem, because migration and immigration do not exist, but today, I believe, no one is keeping migration quite simply negated and says that there is no problem; not only that there is, but we can safely say, the European Union is the most serious task facing our political community. And then, when we look for the answer to how to defend against migration, because we see that it is fundamentally endangering the values that, I believe, we share in Europe, democracy, freedom, equality, the value world mediated by our Christian culture is all at risk when we see that millions of people whose vast majority are not fleeing persecution but simply looking for a better or different life than their own country. At the same time, the EU's collective search for a solution must not distract us from the simple fact that Hungary is truly important to us. Not the EU, if we want to protect Hungary, we must protect it, not the Union, and although we are committed members of this community, but we cannot expect them to be as close to Hungary as those Members, politicians, as we are, to whom Hungary is the first, and Hungary is the most important. When the European Council, the Commission and Parliament are looking for answers to the various forums of the European Union, we can see that there is no consensus at all; not only is there no agreement between individual politicians, but there is no consensus between the electorate and the elected. Not so long ago in Hungary, the electorate expressed the will of the electorate, on which the message was clear: to protect the country. I therefore believe that it is right that one of the first legislative proposals that we have tabled is the bill which is not intended alone and solely - that it should be part of a package of measures, a package of measures to protect Hungary, which will help us to effectively defend against the migration that is threatening us. The present package is basically trying to prevent and pursue the phenomenon that we can safely quote European politicians who have said that a perverted coalition has been created between smugglers and so-called NGOs that both want the same thing. Traffickers smuggle migrants to Europe for money, and NGOs help to do so. The Italian State's Attorney has stated that he has data on the existence of this cooperation, and this cooperation must be prevented, because it is intended to help, by the way, illegal acts, crimes and their implementation. Therefore, the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government are also responding to this situation, and they say that illegal migration, illegal border crossing, should not be helped, encouraged, supported, and that those who carry out such acts should be forced by the police and the competent organisations, with the power of law enforcement and the power of the law, to stop this act, these activities, to suspend it, because this is Hungary's security, Hungary's way of life and the act against the values shared by the Hungarian people. This was also persecuted at a number of points by the so-called legislative group. This system, which is now being negotiated by Parliament, is a summary, unified and helps to pursue and prevent all acts of support for illegal migration. All over Europe, in a large part of the European Union countries, similar steps have been taken, from Italians to Germans to France, because everyone felt that the flood that threatens Europe, if we do nothing, would not stop on its own. In fact, it is absurd in itself that the European Union and the Commission themselves are ignoring their own rules, since the Schengen conventions clearly state how to cross the Schengen border, and they simply do not respect it. The Commission's task would not be to politicalise policy, but would be to comply with and enforce the rules formulated and adopted by the European Union, taking the view that the Schengen area is inoperative in the context of the Schengen area. But it's not inoperative, you have to follow the rules. No one must be allowed into the Schengen area who does not have the right to enter and does not meet the conditions. It's a completely separate fact and a legal situation when someone's chasing you. If a person has been persecuted, it should be clearly protected or protected under the United Nations Asylum Conventions. By the way, Hungary fully complies with this international rule, which we have also adopted and supported. The problem is that, in part, the organisations financed by smugglers and so-called NGOs, Soros, are consciously collapsing the two completely different legal situations. [[13.30]] International rules say that those who are persecuted in their own country must stop in the first country where they are not persecuted, seek asylum there, and in the system otherwise supported by the UN must be given asylum in those countries. I do not have to say that almost all the countries surrounding the European Union are perhaps the only exception to Ukraine where people are not otherwise persecuted. So when people arrive at Hungary, the Hungarian Schengen border, in connection with migration, they should have papers regarding the application for refugee status that was long before. It is no coincidence that these people do not cooperate at all with the authorities, throw away their papers, they do not come from a country where the fact of persecution would otherwise be justified. According to our own data, if we recall it - while receiving roughly 400 thousand migrants in Hungary in 2015-16, while the Hungarian authorities were able to grant 290 asylum status to 290 people at the end of the asylum procedure because otherwise it would be mandatory for the person to wait for the end of the procedure in the country where he submitted his application, these people simply went away. We are talking about masses of people who are seriously abused by law, who are otherwise known as NGOs, those who help migration, illegal immigration, and explain how to abuse law, how to circumvent various European procedures, and how to lie fully consciously to the authorities about making it look as if they were otherwise entitled to asylum status. Obviously, this process must be put to an end. On the one hand, people smugglers must be persecuted. Let us not forget that there is everything from conscious organized criminal behavior to false civil frenzy. Let us not forget that in recent years there have also been examples of NGOs in Austria and Germany, which were later found to be funded by György Soros, seeking people for advertising published in the newspaper, who, by the way, are transporting illegal migrants in Hungary to Germany. It is, by the way, just as smuggling of people under international law when migrants are shipped from Libya to the Italian coast in the Mediterranean. At the very least, there may be some kind of naivety here, but it is not a coincidence that we say that fooled people must, of course, be warned that what they are doing is forbidden, should not be illegal, but those who are organizing this must also act more strictly with the power of the Criminal Code, because it is not possible to assume good faith, because many times they have proved the contrary, that it is indeed a matter of conscious action, a conscious circumvention of laws, an incentive for crowds to abuse the law, defraud the authorities and abuse their situation. This is particularly dangerous when we think about refugees, since no one disputes that there are, unfortunately, many people in the world who suffer real persecution in their own country. But when these organisations, which, by the way, help illegal immigration, support, organise, knowingly wash together the two statuses, they do very, very much harm to real refugees. By the way, the simple outsider who looks at the events really can't tell the difference between what people are involved here, and in fact, many times the authorities put a lot of work into it, a lot of energy, money, to find out that the person who doesn't cooperate, everyone says the same name, everyone was born at the same time, what is the real situation with them. I think it is our job, Hungarian Members, to protect our own country in the first place, our own country, our own voters, the Hungarian citizens. In this context, they must not only be protected, but it must be made clear that those who obstruct protection must be forced to stop. The amendment to the Criminal Code that is being negotiated in this House is for this purpose. We do not think that this is a full solution to the migration problem. In this place, I would just like to point out that we have always taken the view that we should not import trouble into Europe, but that we should bring help where these people come from. This could be some sort of remote solution. However, the defence of our own country cannot be postponed. Until Europe can deliver effective assistance to the issuing countries, we still need to protect our country and the Hungarian people by all means. We ask you to help us do this, to help the police and their own country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-05-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-05-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to add a little bit to the previous lead vocal round, which was about amending the Fundamental Law, but it's basically the same dilemma that lies before us right now. Our colleague Lajos Kósa was just talking about the fact that 290 people were entitled, who received a positive assessment by the Hungarian authorities in some form of refugee status. I'd like to stay with this dilemma for a very short time. I would like to ask you if we know that these 290 people, who have received a positive assessment from the Hungarian authorities, have received some kind of refugee status, as they have arrived in Hungary. Did he arrive by plane, by car, by foot, or by train? I am talking about exactly what I mentioned in the main speakerial round, because on the basis of the government decree that you adopted in 2015 and on the basis of the amendment of the basic law that you wish to adopt now, you cannot arrive in Hungary, only by plane, because if... [[Lajos Kósa: Ukraine is a war country! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In the case of Ukraine, another serious gate must then be opened, because there, to say the Ukrainian-Hungarian border section, there is enough prosperity, either in terms of workers or in terms of dual citizens, or in terms of tourism. You'd be asking me more questions if it worked that way. Otherwise, the problem remains that if we do not allow refugees to arrive in Hungary, because we consider it a safe country, we should only stay at the southern border section, so how could people who have received refugee status under the Geneva Convention who have received them in recent years, according to the Geneva Convention. Reality and Hungarian legislation are not in a thank-you relationship, and international conventions, which cannot be written in excess of Hungarian legislation, are added to this. It's the Geneva Convention. That's what I was talking about at the multi-party meeting in the Ministry of the Interior these days that there is a huge difference between reality and legislation, between intent and applied practice. I agree that we are not with war countries... now the situation in Ukraine is a bit specific, but there are no war countries in the southern border section, another issue is what the UN considers a safe country, yet another one is the European Union. We have the freedom to have all the Member States within the Union, since there is no common practice, to decide for themselves which countries they regard as safe countries and which they do not. In this sense, however, I can accept the logic with which Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér and Minister of Trocsányi argued that if a member of the Union is a member of the Union or has already begun its accession and has taken certain steps, they can be considered a safe country. [[13.40]] I'll just say it once again, you have to be able to answer the question of how those who have been granted refugee status could get it. Because they're not from Ukraine, we know that. The 3,500 people Kristóf Altusz talked about in January did not arrive in Hungary on the Ukrainian-Hungarian border, nor did they take a plane from Aleppo and arrive at the Liszt Ferenc International Airport. They certainly came through Serbia and obviously cooperated with the authorities, waited for the end of their examination in the transit zone, waited for their fate, so to speak, and confirmed that they had come to the world from Iraq, Syria or other parts of the war, and were granted the status they were entitled to under the Geneva Convention. But what happens now? Because, as it stands, the Fundamental Law wants to override the Geneva Convention, but that's not gonna work. But once again, I support and accept the argument that we have heard from ministers, and I believe that Serbia is a safe country. The only question is that we will continue to do so at the communication level, that no one will come here, and then there will be a secretary of state who will accidentally tell us how many people we have managed to grant such status, because this happened in January. Obviously, their Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs was not praised for the interview he did in Malta. 'Cause on paper, the official communication was that no one came here and couldn't come. In the meantime, we're part of the Geneva Convention. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] But let us get back to the proposal, but this is closely linked to the way in which Mr Secretary of State said in his expozee what we consider a safe country, but the reality is different. I would like to stress that we are constructive and clear partners in ensuring that Hungary is safe, that we serve the safety of the Hungarian people, and in the last cycle I could give you countless examples of what were the steps, whether the criminal code, the law of the police, or the amendments to the national security law, which led to Jobbik always supporting your proposals. It was like this when we introduced a special legal order to support the terrorist threat. This was the case when, by the southern border section, the Hungarian Army had to create its legal background so that they could be used by Jobbik in terms of border protection. When the asylum law had to be amended for the crisis caused by immigration, Jobbik also supported it. We supported any proposal that contributed substantially to the security of the Hungarian people. But we have always said the criticisms, the proposals that either did not serve Hungary's interests, or had to be modified, because they were not on a thank-you basis with reality. That's what I want to do now. I agree that we should touch the law of the police or other legislation, so that the work of the authorities, whether in terms of prevention of crime or law enforcement, is as effective as possible, but we have managed to do so in such a way that I do not, in a subtle way, see how this will work in practice. For example, they want to punish those who, so to speak, organise immigration, those who are trying to help people who are on their way. That's what we said at the Ministry meeting, that I could even imagine a taxa list here, so that anomalies wouldn't occur. Why should it be punished on the basis of this legislation if it were to come into force in this form - say the Maltese Charity Service or the Catholic Charity if it provides any humanitarian assistance to immigrants who have already arrived and are here? It could be punished on the basis of this legislation. Obviously that is not the goal, obviously that is not the intention, but there is no indication of what help it is about. Minister Trócsányi argued that he would also be able to consider the justification for the court, and that the practice of what he considers to be a crime and what he does not. That is why I propose clarification, because we obviously know that there are huge differences between civil society and non-governmental organisations in their activities here. There is a big difference if a non-governmental organisation, let's say, in Belgrade already informs refugees heading towards Hungary about the loopholes in the Hungarian legal order, or one translates into their mother tongue the relevant Hungarian Fundamental Law, Btk., and informs them that if you arrive at the southern border section, you must comply with those laws. On the basis of this proposal, however, there is no difference. This has been said there by several opposition representatives as to what constitutes information, what constitutes a crime, and this is not listed. We said that this would be what we would find during the general or detailed discussion period... if there was no better idea for anyone, then there should be a taxatical list, but there should not be any punishment for informing those who wish to comply with the laws. However, as it stands, it also includes the possibility of punishing the best-intentioned civil society organisation, where appropriate. 'Cause what's the plan? There is no clear explanation in the proposal as to what we consider to be assisting and organising immigration. If someone randomly, I don't know, picks up a hitchhiker in his car, because, let's say, a mother with a small child, obviously, he doesn't hire him as a smuggler to take the illegal immigrant from A to B, but practices a simple human gesture. And there are those who make hard money on this, whether in other countries or in Hungary. There is no taxation list here, or the clear definition of who we consider to be organizers, who we regard as helpers, and where the line is between legal and illegal. I am referring to these vague, or, let us say, a little superficial or not sufficiently precise legislative parts, when I say that it is necessary to touch it and reassure Mr Secretary of State that we have not submitted so far, since there was nothing to submit amendments until the meeting, of course, we will do here, by the deadline, in the form of amendments to our comments, which we have also discussed at the ministerial meeting, and which we are talking about here in the debate. But there were a number of points where it was quite clear that we agreed, we understand the intention, we understand the purpose, we just see that the current proposal, as an instrument before us, is not enough at all points. And it is very difficult to explain to a layman or a skeptic what, by the way, on the basis of this package of proposals, is the additional license that the Hungarian police have not yet had, but will then have. There is also an amendment to the law of the police, but I am not against it and it is not clear to me yet, and I think that I am not the only one with this additional right, which gives new tools in terms of efficiency, either by the Hungarian police, or by any other authority or by secret service, because they have had clear legal backgrounds, whether in the case of destruction of the technical border seal or in the case of human trafficking, what they need to do, and where this adds, which should be viewed as such a proposal in the last few days, as it has been marked, how strict and how effective it will be after the adoption of this proposal. [[13.50]] I wish this to be the case, just so that they do not fall on the other side of the horse and wish to punish or to be subject to sanctions by those who do not do anything of any ill will, whether humanitarian aid, legal assistance or anything else. So we need to make precise, exact legislation in such a case with particular regard, because there is plenty of opportunity for a court or judge to not evaluate these passages as you think it should be evaluated. I think we still have time to change this in the next few days so that it is clear to everyone how far legal help goes and where illegal crime comes from. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-57	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-06-05-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. I think it's important to say at the beginning of my speech that the bill, which is T/33. The Minister of the Interior has submitted a number on measures to combat illegal immigration. It is important to underline this because in recent years, especially from 2015 onwards, when illegal immigration has become increasingly widespread not only towards Hungary but also towards the rest of Europe, there has been a particular mix of concepts. Follow-up people have divided illegal immigration and the refugee issue, i.e. the legal application of migration. I think that what we are talking about is important because Europe was not really prepared to handle the arrival of such a large number of illegal immigrants. There have been a number of responses to this in Europe. There were answers that said that there was no need for borders, that everyone had a fundamental right to change their place of residence, and that they had the right to enter Europe at any time for better living conditions. And, of course, there was the legislation in force, which, under the Schengen rules and the asylum procedures in force, significantly restricted, restricted, and even in stark contrast to this interpretation. I believe that it is in Europe's common interest not to allow illegal immigration. This is why European-level legislation has been adopted that explicitly obliges countries at Schengen borders to protect Europe's borders with greater strength and greater professional and legal capacity. Hungary is one of these countries, we also have a Schengen border with Ukraine, Serbia, Romania and Croatia, so we had a fundamental obligation to establish physical border protection first, and then to create the means of legal border protection, which the Hungarian Parliament has done in time and effectively, according to the government's referral. We are now saying that Hungary is an example of the protection of the Schengen border, such as the methods, techniques and techniques used here. In fact, Hungary has also done so by helping to combat illegal immigration further away from the Schengen border in Macedonia. Because illegal immigration is not good not only for us citizens living within the European Union, but it has become clear in recent times that it is not good for those who are not members of the European Union, but who are forced to bear considerable burdens in connection with illegal immigration. I am thinking of Macedonia, or the fact that, according to recent news reports, there are unblessed conditions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the potential capacity for governance there may prove to be little, so there could be a humanitarian disaster, especially if we consider that the Croatia that has abused Hungary for a long time to take border protection measures today says that Croatia will not become an area to which anyone can enter, and that the current Croatian government will take the necessary measures. I therefore think that the fight against illegal immigration is necessary in order to protect the Hungarian population, Hungarian sovereignty, Hungarian culture and Hungarian identity. We cannot think of anything other than our proximity to the European Union and that the protection of Hungarian citizens is our first priority. That is why the legislative amendments made in the proposal are necessary, so that we can represent Hungarian interests even more effectively, we can serve the interests and protection of Hungarian citizens even more effectively. I also have to add that the reason for this submitted bill and the amendment of the Bill, police law and asylum law contained in it is that in the last three to four years it has been revealed that this illegal immigration is not an unorganized thing, it is not a spontaneous thing, but there are organisations which, for reasons not known to me, are ready to transfer tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, but even millions of people from states where their lives and existence are not threatened, so they are not entitled to asylum benefits and security, but they are flooding this continent as an illegal immigrant, perhaps the most defenceless of all other continents against illegal immigration. And these methods, these organizations, these structures, these financial instruments, these activities have become increasingly traceable and evident over the past period, to which the government has to react very rightly, and, in a preventive way, as a warning to the Hungarian Parliament, a regulation that warns individuals and organisations that such activities will be expressly illegal will have to be put in place. We are no longer talking about how to play with legislative interpretations, we can abuse the possible errors of well-intentioned legislation, so to say loopholes can never be abused in good intentions - it is simply that we can punish them by continuing to support illegal immigration and thus endanger the security of Hungary by introducing an important case description in a closed system. Because let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that when we look at illegal immigration itself, it is the source of terrorism. There have been many examples of this in Western European countries. In addition to luck and luck, such events did not occur in Hungary due to the sacrifices of the government and the bodies responsible for them. This is due to physical border protection and due to legal border protection, and hopefully will be due to the new legislation after the adoption of the proposal submitted. To sum up all this, I must say that we are about to take an important step in legislation against illegal immigration when we are discussing this bill, because this bill can effectively, clearly and under clear rules, ensure the sanctioning of activities that promote illegal immigration and which threaten the security of Hungary. [[14.00]] I think that, after thinking of the Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány yesterday, he said that he does not know an organisation that wants to deploy mass, there are no measures to support illegal immigration, which also means that the voters who have sent you to Parliament feel the same way that there is no room for illegal immigration in Hungary. Hungary can act decisively against illegal immigration, and there is a strong and secure social support behind it. For this reason, the Christian Democratic People's Party can support the submitted bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-06-05-59	Thank you very much, Congressman Aradski. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Molnár, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[György Szilágyi will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]]
u2018-06-05-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Stop Soros I. was followed by Stop Soros II, I could also say that there is another or Stop Soros reloaded. Actually, it's nothing more than a Btk modification. I could also say that a lot of fuss with relatively little purpose. Of course, Stop Soros II. Better than I, it seems the Ministry of the Interior has tried with some good intentions, but this has not led to much success. But let's see what was withdrawn, because it is worth a few sentences that a proposal was submitted in February that was not due to Stop Soros II. By the way, it's very nice to have it withdrawn. But what was the first proposal in the campaign, which was, in fact, the centre of Fidesz communication: connecting refugee support organisations to a permit, then charging obligations, and finally alien police distance, with some atmosphere in the '50s. These were the key elements of the Fidesz campaign. In comparison, this proposal was withdrawn on 29 May 2018 in a nice and quiet manner, otherwise quite rightly. We talk very little about the fact that you obviously deceived your constituents, because then and there you promised that you would take that Stop Soros I. over. Compared to that, we're talking about a completely different story. [[György Balla: This is tighter.]] It's not more stringent, Congressman, it's a little professional. We could also ask why it was withdrawn, but it doesn't matter, because otherwise it's right to have it withdrawn. It's a matter of eligibility. Obviously, in this form, this is nothing more than a Btk. amendment, as police law is currently giving the police the task of protecting public order and ensuring the border. So there's nothing new about that. In the asylum procedure, I have to say that, under current EU and Hungarian regulations, safe third-country nationals can be denied this type of asylum procedure, if that is the case. So there's nothing new here. What's new is in one place, namely two Btk modifications. One of the elements is the objective of which can be supported. I must say that the promotion of illegal immigration, which is talking about an act of danger to society, is also a milder perception of smuggling of people, in a criminal language, it could be said that it is a privileged case of smuggling of people. The aim of this is eligible, but its instrument failed, as it introduces two concepts of legal dogmatic inaccuracies, one of which is organizing activities and the other is the operation of the network, which are defined in Hungarian criminal law in a foreign way, very vaguely. But we could say the indeterminate concept of Vishinsky, which tries to impose its responsibility on the application of judicial law. This isn't right. And the fact that you define the legal facts in particular, I respectfully ask what non-organizing activity means. Because if we know what's especially important, then obviously, it's not particularly important. Therefore, I say that it will be much more specific in order to facilitate illegal immigration which is subject to a lighter assessment of trafficking in human beings, because in this form it is too broad and will become unapplicationable to the courts. Border insurance separation is unacceptable, incompatible with the rule of law, even its objective is not really understandable. In the case of the eight-kilometer Schengen band against whom criminal proceedings are pending, the presumption of innocence is the first and then proportionality, as it is disproportionate to take away the freedom of movement and movement of persons in the event of a minor crime. This is a disproportionate violation of fundamental rights and is therefore unacceptable. I would say here, too, that the era of the Iron Curtain is reminiscent of this border insurance restraining. Returning to the fact that, in the criminal code, if the organisation and the operation of the network were to be more specific, it could be considered that a society which is dangerous to a society which is a preparatory behaviour of human smuggling, and is obviously linked to the fact that it is easier for the authorities to prove this crime than smuggling people, which is linked to criminal activity and property gain, in this case it would be worth considering this legal situation. But then we're not talking about a Stop Soros package, so we're simply talking about ordering a dangerous, illegal act to society in a milder degree by the criminal code. This could be right, but unfortunately, we are not yet here, and we are still seeing a show of general political communication goals. I repeat, with regard to the asylum procedure, it is clear that there is no need to proceed with the procedure for those arriving from Serbia. This does not require any legislative amendment, as current EU and Hungarian legislation makes this possible. So this is for communication purposes. The same is true of the amendment of the police law, since it is difficult to think that public order and the protection of the state border would not be served by the current paragraphs of the police law. There's nothing new under the sun. In our view, there is no need to amend this. Under the laws in force, it is a matter for the police to ensure the border and protect public order, so if the prevention of illegal immigration is included in the criminal code, it is the duty of the police to ensure this. There is no need for this type of change. So this is what I am asking, and what we are proposing is that the clarification of this legal situation is the minimum that this paragraph can be supported, that all other political communication purposes are served, and that there is no need for them. They are either not needed because they are quoted in the '50s or they are not needed because the current police law and the various laws on asylum procedures are currently serving the same purpose. In closing, with respect. The Hungarian Socialist Party doesn't support it, I'm only telling you that it won't have to react to it, it doesn't support the dismantling of the fence under these security conditions, and it doesn't support a compulsory resettlement quota in any way. I think it is important to say this because they are part of national sovereignty. However, we find it unacceptable that Fidesz-KDNP fooled Hungarian people in the campaign with the Stop Soros I package. We find the accusations concerning the left, including the Hungarian Socialist Party, concerning national sovereignty or even border protection unacceptable. And we find it unacceptable that they are constantly making communication and party propaganda issues about matters that basically concern security issues. In this regard, the government's policy makers are not at the forefront in this regard. With all due respect, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Interior to help us get back to professionalism. Clarify the legal situation and remove the rest, as it is unnecessary and unacceptable. I ask with all due respect that Fidesz's communication machine does not tell the profession what to do, but rather that professionalism precedes party policy goals. If a decision is to be taken, it cannot be supported unchanged, there is no need to amend the law of the police or the asylum procedure. If one of the two Btk. paragraphs is clarified, we can get there to be eligible. Everything else is not needed, everything else serves the party political goals of Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2018-06-05-61	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Molnár. I now give the floor to Mrs Ágnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group.
u2018-06-05-62	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/333. Legislative bill No 1 concerns the amendment of certain laws concerning measures to combat illegal immigration. I would like to deal with one word first: it is illegal. According to the view of the Democratic Coalition, the law intends to act illegally against Hungarian citizens, against certain groups of Hungarian citizens, against European and Hungarian values. This proposal makes fun of everything that makes us human, European and Hungarian. The issue of refugees has been raised by several keynote speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, If someone is running from war, if someone, whether she is a pregnant woman, a child, a student preparing for university, brown hair, blue eyes, has to leave their country because they are destroying their house to the ground, bombing their house, or seeing everyone around her, but everyone else being killed for something, then, fellow Members, we are not helping these people because the Geneva Convention or the European Union requires it, but because we are normal because we are human. You like to forget that, and you think that help should only be provided if it is required by some rule. Maybe that's because over the past few years, all kinds of human traits have been dissolved in the filthy Goebbels propaganda that the government has been pushing on taxpayers' money. [[14.10]] You've introduced people fleeing war as non-humans, and believe me, most of them are ordinary people: carpenters, electricians, shopkeepers, teachers, economists, doctors. And believe me, they love their children, and they want their children to have a better fate, but they have just developed a situation in their country from which they had to flee. That is why the Democratic Coalition was one of the parties in this Parliament that supported, if necessary, taking military action against those who would drive these people away. But you've always presented these people as a horde, and you've forgotten that they're human, just like you. Then, in the same Goebbels propaganda, you have made the country inhumane, on every channel, on every purchased media site, through subverted public television, public radio, proclaiming that hating is a normal behavior. Fellow Members, no! It's not normal for politics and a country to be based on hatred. The Democratic Coalition will never betray human rights. My fellow Members, we are people first, and then we are Hungarians, Syrians or Germans. The respect for human rights in your world alone is contrary to patriotism and patriotism, and in the world of everyone else who thinks normally, that is not contrary to that. It is possible to love the country in such a way that we do not help others on the basis of the Geneva Convention, but only because we believe that this is the Christian morality that you are very happy to discuss in this House, but very rarely practice. You, in this proposal, are in complete opposition to Europe. Of course, we are not very surprised by this, as it becomes quite clear that Viktor Orbán and the fact that Europe are shutting each other out is slowly becoming clear. We all know that this has been said by other keynote speakers that the issue of migration really concerns all of Europe and even the world. This global problem cannot be solved by one nation alone, either in the short, medium or long term, which is why we think and have always thought that we need a common European solution. There was one before the European Union, which was accepted by all countries, but failed at the veto of Hungary. The final declaration of the EU-Africa Summit would have been a major step towards the eradication of illegal migration. You, of all people, were the ones who vetoed this proposal. According to the Spanish, French, Austrian, Finnish, Belgian and Portuguese governments, your veto helps illegal migration. They are raging refugees at home, and they are preventing a European solution in the EU. It must be said clearly that you are interested in maintaining this situation, you are interested in illegal migration, because without migranting, your own voters would no longer tolerate the destruction of the last eight years. And what's more, in this whole story, there is no European office or organisation that obliges Hungary to accept people. By the way, you've been talking about 1294 refugees all the time, and somehow my mouth has come out just as much as I've been able to accommodate in the last few years. I add, and then they lied a great deal because they claimed that thousands of Coptic Christian families had been accepted, and it turned out that no Coptic Christian refugee family had been accepted. I also had to find this out by accident, and I learned it from the Director-General of the Immigration Office in the corridor of Parliament, who was very afraid to say so. So, you can lie about accepting refugees and thus voting in favor of Christian love, and in light of that, they shine, but then the truth always comes out. Hungary cannot be forced to do things that it does not want. You have lied about this over the last few years, and have kept millions of Hungarians lying. They fought against a non-existent enemy, while, fellow Members, the country is eating up the real problem, the real problems we are facing, and you refuse to talk about. However, fellow Members, I would like to remind you of one more thing. You are the best example of not being born in Europe, because every step you take in this matter in communication has shown that you are very far from European culture. In this proposal, you have come up with rubber rules in order to adversely affect the groups of voluntary Hungarians in your action. There have already been a number of civil society organisations mentioned here, but I would like to make it clear that, in our view, this rubber code that you are writing is not only related to legal rights or to legal organisations dealing with refugees, but you want to destroy civil society against everyone. This is what we have seen in recent years, and we have been able to monitor precisely what the words, the terms, the organisations, the people that have been at the heart of your policy and your hate policy have been. Now we see it's the civilians, the civilian world, that you're declaring war on. So, you want to deal with everyone, of course, who's not on your side, but, you know, who knows a little bit about the defence world, they say there's collateral damage. Obviously, there will be a civil society organisation attached to you, but as collateral damage, it could fall in this bill. But let us make it clear that you are using this bill to try to deal with everyone who is not with you, who is not serving your policy, from fishing associations to cancer care organizations. And why do they do that? Because the government feels dangerous that there is still a civil society organisation operating independently of the government. Don't let the civilians give firewood to the poor, because you can't get a vote and ask for a vote, as we have seen. Don't let the civilians feed the needy because you can't even ask for a vote. And don't let the civilians camp the needy children in the summer, who have never seen Lake Balaton, because then you can't blackmail the mother, that the child can only go to summer camp if he votes for Fidesz. That's what this whole civilization thing you've been doing lately is all about. I must say, this is the unscrupulous raging of a vile and inhuman feudal logic of rulership. And, of course, it is necessary to make clear what is the most important aspect of this entire bill against Hungarian citizens, this is border insurance. What does the proposal say? It means that if a person promotes illegal migration eight kilometres from the border, it can be banned from this 8 km radius. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent times, citizens have experienced that you are able to prosecute anyone, at any time, on whatever pretext, with appropriate assistance, and this is what we have seen. Mr. Secretary of State Károly Kontra is sitting here. Your boss, who was at this particular meeting... because this wasn't a negotiation that was going on in these billings, it was just a meeting, or, to say the least, a side-by-side narrative. So it was your minister who, for example, told us with a face to death in the spy trial at that National Security Committee meeting about the terrible crimes committed by Hungarian citizens here. You were sitting there, as I recall, or at least you were part of this process. They all marched there, God damn it, in order to prove their point. It's been almost ten years, and it turns out that what you said was a lie. Meanwhile, they destroyed families. Meanwhile, they walked across Hungarian citizens, and the people you accused were former politicians, yet those who, we believe, may have legal help, may have a financial opportunity to pay for this legal aid. You can and you can accuse anyone. [[Charles Kontra says no.]] Don't shake your head, Mr. Secretary, because that's the way it is, anyone. They defile us if they have to, we've seen this, they have their own media bought with taxpayers' money, and they have the public media to do that, and they have the dirty legal tools they've been doing in the last few years. We watched this. [[14.20]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is possible to ban innocent people not only from a radius of eight kilometers of the border, but also from the neighbourhood of Ferihegy in Budapest and from the vicinity of the international river port. Even though one of your State Secretarys said that I don't know which one, because there are so many - that this is not the case; that is not what the bill is about, and I don't know where they get it from, that because you say that Ferihegy is not, it will be so. Then maybe we should put this in the law. The next step is that, by virtue of the law, those who are being prosecuted in certain cases are banned from this border section of eight kilometers from where there is a border section - we do not see where the remedy is. But even more embarrassing, I think, and it is really unpleasant for your government to talk about how important it is to fight illegal migration, and it has also been proven at this meeting that this has not been thought over - that if there is a foreigner who crosses the Hungarian border illegally, and a police officer takes them ten kilometers from the border, and apparently starts to prosecute against him, this foreigner cannot be escorted out into the transit zone, because the law will prohibit this, because the Hungarian law in Hungary is the rule. And if you don't prosecute him and escort him out to the transit zone, I can tell you that you're gonna get people to commit an official crime and possibly a military crime. Overall, I think it is quite amazing to have this border insurance restraining system, on which we have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that this is not feasible. On the question of the border closure, how effective, by legal means and by physical means you have defended the border, I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State here, Mr Simon, or he is no longer here - not in violation of the inhabitants of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, but the border section of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county is essentially a passageway, flying over there by small aircraft and by a dragon plane. You're shaking your head again, but the national police commissioner gave me a very long list of days when they flew in or when they arrived at the border crossings of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Perhaps this should be the case, and that, in the middle of the great defense, 32 police officers were just taken from the border section of Röszke, perhaps six days ago, and 10 of them were placed in pre-trial detention according to the news, this information was given to us; obviously, if you do not talk about these matters, it is very difficult, but the news is still coming to Budapest - because their activities did not exactly correspond to the police oath. Overall, I can tell you that in the view of the Democratic Coalition, this is an inhumane, anti-European, anti-Hungarian thinking that you represent of me, I still think that, and that is what we think - which is why the Democratic Coalition does not support this bill, and considers it to be incorrigible overall. But we are always open to talking about what our common affairs should be, how, for example, we can solve this issue together. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-05-63	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the mayor of the political group.
u2018-06-05-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I am very sorry that the ministers are not here, that your minister is not here, for example, and, by the way, I do not see Lajos Kósa, who will be Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee. I would like to ask you, since you are here in this Chamber as a so-called expert - to be kind, to press a button and to give your opinion, to tell us the answers to our questions that we expect in this debate. So don't look like this debate is about everyone saying the keynote speech and, by the way, the speeches, the pro-government representatives, their pre-written speeches, and otherwise there's no meaningful answer to the questions that we're asking you; I'm going to be asking you quite a few, too, Mr State Secretary, so I'm asking you to answer them in any way if you really mean this whole thing. It is quite clear that immigration policy must remain national. I would add, by the way, this has been a decade of practice, so this is not a novelty, nor is the LMP questioning this. The fact that every state has the right to decide who it lives with is also a fundamental principle, so this is, of course, also valid for Hungary, and this is an important basis for sovereignty. However, it is also essential that Hungary's security can be guaranteed in substance, and otherwise it must be done within the framework of the rule of law and must be ensured in cooperation with EU partners. What must be done in any way in the fight against illegal migration, I think that there are three points: efficiency, transparency and international cooperation, of course part of which the Hungarian government must also comply with the international commitments which Hungary has already undertaken. What we now have in front of us is a patched up and very, very weak proposal. Secretary of State, this does not ensure the safety of Hungary, and you know it. The most important thing is to strengthen the protection of the European Union's external borders. If, for some reason, the government has to act very strongly, for example, in the European Union, it is such a point, which requires very active policy and action. In addition, I would be very interested to know, Mr State Secretary, whether you are in favour of strengthening Frontex, because there are now a number of proposals in the European Union and a discussion has been launched about it, which will, by the way, make concrete proposals, and a very important part of this is, for example, the strengthening of the European Border Protection Agency. Otherwise, the number of Frontex should be increased to ten thousand, and it has been said that, in addition to the Member States assigning appropriate resources to it, it is currently set as a target date for 2027, which I think is an extremely late date, so this date should also be brought forward. Will the government take action to strengthen Frontex much sooner, both by increasing its numbers and increasing its resources? Furthermore, the European Union should be able to take an active action outside its external borders, so that substantial, active regional developments should be such as to offset regional development disparities and, by the way, to achieve the development of these areas in a sustainable manner - which will ensure that the global process that has started as a result of these inequalities can be stopped and, by the way, put much more pressure on the entire European Union, the Member States, and, by the way, also on Hungary, than has been the case so far. I am very curious about the opinion of the government, for example, on the establishment of a new forecasting system, which would create, in the spirit of international cooperation, let us say, in cooperation with the Balkan countries, an effective forecasting system that marks migration processes in time. My fellow Member Aradski mentioned Macedonia. I don't think sending three cops over there would solve anything. So when we talk about international cooperation, whether on a bilateral or multilateral basis, this should not be the case. By the way, I think that cooperation with such Balkan countries, for example, or the creation of a centre where these forecasts run in time and will be evaluated, could greatly strengthen Frontex, for example, and that an active engagement could take place, in which it would indeed directly improve Hungary's security and provide assurance for the future that certain processes will become much more predictable and can be prepared for this. [[14.30]] In addition, we are going to initiate, and we will also go through, the government's report in the Defence and Police Committee on why, for example, the adoption of the EU budget for the 20-27 cycle will be postponed for the European Parliament elections, since this budget will provide the Union with much more robust defence costs. It is in Hungary's primary interest that this be adopted as soon as possible, and it cannot wait until after the elections to the European Parliament. What is the government's idea of this? What is your idea of Frontex? I've mentioned that before. What specific professional proposals does the government have for the European Union, which should be done, say, to strengthen the protection of the external borders? I'd be very interested in that, too. Furthermore, five years ago, the Hungarian government adopted a migration strategy, and we are very interested in what measures have been implemented, for example, because it contains five chapters, five important chapters, and only one of which deals with illegal migration. So you have defined a number of tasks for yourself, and once again, this was five years ago. We need to see what they've been doing all these years. We can see that a fence was built. That's all right, we told you, yes, we need the fence. In addition, a number of other things would be needed; on the one hand, compliance with our own international commitments. For example, if this does not happen, on what basis can we expect, say, Frontex to help protect the borders? What training did the stock get, what training did the border hunters receive, what legal training, what international legal training did they receive? For example, how many smugglers have been caught by the Hungarian authorities, and what bilateral or multilateral cooperation has been launched by the government in order to really obtain the information at the moment and prepare to deal with potentially emerging situations? In particular, with regard to the Btk. amendment, I must say that we already have the right facts. In the first place, there is a situation called smuggling of people and an illegal residence, which is sufficient to prevent and punish illegal acts, if this is the case. So there is no obstacle to the fight against illegal migration. The question is whether the government is doing something, and let's say the organisations involved are doing something about it. I mean, if anyone's committing a crime now, it's criminal and captureable. In addition, it appears that this entire proposal has been filled with rubber rules, which everyone can interpret roughly as they want. This may also cause confusion, and in fact may even later be brought before a court of law because of problems with interpretation of the law, and there are obviously many who suffer from these problems. So, Minister of State, what you should see now is that you can protect Hungary, not by acting as a phallic lawyer, but by taking real, active government action. That's what we expect from you, and that's what we want to see, and that's what we're going to find out. We will do this in the Defence and Police Committee, and obviously in the same way as in other fields. So we are not convinced that this proposal that we have just tabled could be an effective instrument at all, and that is why I said that it is an extremely weak proposal, if it is really the government's aim to fight against illegal waiting, which must be fought. We must fight effectively, so the competent bodies must be able to carry out their task; unfortunately, this is not happening now. The whole process must be transparent, since all the procurement and procedures in this area must be transparent, as they spend not much of the common task, citizens have the right to see what these funds are going to do, and it is necessary to take these measures in appropriate international cooperation. Moreover, as a result of the 2015 migration wave, this refugee crisis has led the Member States of the Union to reconsider their immigration policy and, moreover, to rephrase their common EU policy, of course, and to align the legitimate security needs of the Hungarian people, the legitimate security needs of EU citizens with those of the international treaties and with effective and effective measures. In shaping migration policy, states can build on the experience and assistance of civil society organisations that have been operating in this area for decades. In a complicated situation in which we are today, it would be very easy to give up their experience and this help. The Hungarian government will do otherwise, since it will give up on this. Instead of looking at these organizations as resources, he's trying to criminalize them and scare them away from their activities. Meanwhile, there is no medium- or long-term strategy for the government. After all, as I mentioned, it is very interesting that in 2013 they knew that a comprehensive concept was needed and they also knew that international commitments had to be respected. It seems that this has been forgotten since then, and it is indeed the substantive action that is missing. My further questions to Mr Secretary of State: what do you think about the fact that if we want to maintain Schengen and protect the external borders... and that is what we want, at least that is what we want, I very much hope that the Hungarian Government, by the way, has said a few sentences to Péter Szijjártó on this issue today, the only interesting thing is that when he comes home from abroad, he somehow forgets what he said there. It would be good if you did not do this; perhaps the pressure of the people's party actually worked in this case. But do you know that this requires real cooperation? Why do they think that the EU budget should be adopted later? What do you think of Frontex? I've already mentioned that. What is the position of the Hungarian Government on the fact that several people are thinking about Schengen reviews in the European Union? Do you not think that the external borders should be strengthened and that it would not be in our interest that Schengen actually be able to function effectively? Unfortunately, in addition to the fact that this by-the-wall lawyering, which has now been put before us, has no use for it, there will be no greater security, no more means, no more means, no more means, no more means, no more financial means to take the appropriate measures to catch criminals, no more smugglers. We now want to see that this is actually being implemented, but, moreover, there are questions that arise when you are breaking the laws you yourself have made and, for example, punching holes and security gaps in the Schengen system. For example, we can look at the issue of settlement bonds here, because it is the offshore companies themselves who organise this type of immigration, they have entrusted these companies with the idea of Antal Rogán and, by the way, to the benefit of the Fidesz circles. It has been raised here in the debate that some organisations are putting up a newspaper ad to organise migration; well, these offshore companies, which are linked to Antal Rogán, have put up a newspaper ad in order to bring as many people here with a settlement obligation as possible without having been subject to any substantive control by these people. Let me give you a concrete example: it is the money launderer of the Assad regime who, for example, received a life-long residence permit, so that he is also free in the Schengen area, and you feel that there is no problem with this, as well as the head of the Immigration Office. So, in addition to ad hoc police and police measures, is there anything else planned, Secretary of State? because they themselves are extremely fragile, and they are not a solution. Anyway, we're not talking about a task of mass control, we're talking about a complex problem. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It's something that needs to be dealt with. So this bill is just a substitute act, and even if the paragraphs are stacked, it won't solve anything. So we, for our part, do not consider this proposal eligible. Thank you.
u2018-06-05-65	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I now give the floor to Mrs Szabó Timea, the lead speaker of the Group of the Dialogue for Hungary. [[14.40]]
u2018-06-05-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lajos Kósa started his speech, and he didn't start it that way, but he said that it is our job, Hungarian representatives, to protect the borders of our country. That's right. We totally agree, there's no debate between us. Only the bill before us is completely inadequate. Mr Secretary of State, Minister and the speakers of Fidesz agree that it is our duty to provide assistance to asylum seekers, refugees and dogs. There's no argument between us, I understand. Illegal immigration, as you call it, will not be solved by this bill. It will not solve it, because there is no tightening up, no measure in this bill that would help this activity. Unfortunately, the fact is that this bill is another fraud, you are fooling the Hungarian people again. He's a liar, the name of the bill. They gave him the name Stop Soros, which, by the way, doesn't appear in the text itself once. Plus, really, where are we? ! You still scare the Hungarian people with a 90-year-old man. By the way, when Viktor Orbán was a Soros Scholarship winner, I did not hear that György Soros should have been so stopped, according to you. But they do scare a 90-year-old man in an incredibly undeserving way, citing the '30s, in connection with a nonexistent, supposedly organized activity. The fact is that this bill should not be called Stop Soros, but legal aid should be called a prison-threatening bill and a heartless, inhuman bill. But not only is this bill unacceptable in his name, but it is also unacceptable in its substance. It does not strengthen borders, it does not strengthen border protection, it does not punish man-smuggling more severely, and it does not tighten up anything that would indeed be a deficiency in Hungarian law at the moment. Trafficking in human beings is still being punished by Hungarian law and illegal immigration. By the way, Mr. Secretary of State, the expression that you are not aware of the Hungarian law is that it is illegal immigration. It would therefore also be good to clarify this in this text. That is why this whole bill is completely unacceptable and satochism. They use phrases that are otherwise used in Hungarian law nowhere else. See if you can find that word "immigration" doesn't appear. However, a much bigger problem is that this bill does not meet the fundamental legal requirements. Once again, it cannot meet the requirement of clarity. There will not be a judge, a court, who will be able to enforce this law. This law has only one purpose, as does the amendment of the Fundamental Law: to distract attention from real problems, to pursue the intimidating, hate-promoting policy on which they have built their entire campaign and their four years, and to introduce a self-censorship with civil society organisations, which, by the way, were also tried to apply and enforce with press workers when amending the media law. Why is this law inappropriate? Here it has been said on several occasions that the concepts are simply incomprehensible and unclear. What does border monitoring mean, for example? Secretary of State, answer this question. If I go to the border and look at the border, do I do border surveillance? What does this concept mean? It's not exactly defined in this bill. We know that this is another lex Helsinki Committee, they also had an agreement with the Hungarian police and border guards on how border surveillance is carried out together, but we also know that this agreement has not existed for a year. Then what else is border surveillance? What does the illegal dissemination of information material mean? If I do so, will I translate the entire Hungarian refugee law material into English and put it on my own website or on any website, is it already an information material? Here's the definition of these concepts. What does "network" mean? A civil society organisation, which, say, has an office in Budapest, has two rural offices, the network? Or is it a network with a piece of office in itself? What is direct persecution? It has often been said with regard to Serbia that the Hungarian Government considers it a safe third country, while, moreover, international organisations, such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, do not consider it a safe third country. So let me get this straight. A safe third country does not mean only that there is no direct threat to, say, the physical integrity of an asylum seeker or refugee, or that it is not threatened with death or torture. A country that does not have a functioning asylum procedure is not a safe third country either. We know of Serbia that it does not have asylum proceedings, i.e. 98 percent of asylum seekers, or 100 percent of them may be sent back to the country of origin. So if you send a asylum seeker back to Serbia because you say that it is a safe third country, then you do put him at risk, because Serbia will immediately deport him back to the country, even Syria, where the asylum seeker came from. What is organized assistance? That's another very interesting question. I think that, by the way, organised assistance was an ectant example of what the Hungarian government did in the summer of 2015 when it organised a bus for asylum seekers from the border with Röszke to the Austrian border. So the Hungarian government also committed a crime on this basis, since they themselves carried the refugees by bus. In parentheses, I would also like to ask, going back to the persecution and persecution, that otherwise it is a direct persecution, what the Hungarian government is doing to civil society organisations. Is that still a direct chase? Because what you are now doing to civil society organisations, for example, is in line with the concept of direct persecution. By threatening people with innocent help with jail time, you've exhausted the notion of persecution. But I would also like to ask the Secretary of State a further example of assistance. Is it a relief if, say, an illegally staying foreigner, whether it is a asylum seeker or not, buys a bus ticket to a long-distance bus and wants to go from A to B, and the bus driver lets him on the bus? Is that already an illegal aid? [[Károly Kontrat: Bus ticket to Serbia?]] Not Serbia. Home. So he goes from one Hungarian city to another, but obviously the bus driver doesn't know who that man is. If I buy a bus ticket on any vehicle, they won't ask for my ID or any travel document. So this is also a question, a completely unclear concept, which once again failed to jump in this bill. But I would also like to ask you another example: if, for example, a Japanese engineer's residence permit expires in Hungary and a lawyer helps him extend his residence permit, is that lawyer committing a crime? He's already helping an illegally staying immigrant. Well, help me with this law, because it doesn't tell us anything. That is why we say that it does not meet the basic requirement of clarity, that there will be no judge who will apply it. The real scandal, on the other hand, and indeed unacceptable in this bill, is now beyond the satochmunk they have done, so that we know precisely that the aim here was not to stop illegal immigration, but this is once again a communication trick to maintain this subject, let us say, instead of solving health problems. But there's also a real despicable thing about this bill. That is, without any judicial supervision, you will allow coercion to be imposed on anyone. I mean, translated into Hungarian, that means that if a asylum seeker comes into the country and claims that he is a refugee from Syria, and a lawyer comes and provides legal assistance to him, but then a policeman comes and says that I really don't believe that you are a Syrian citizen, but I think you are a Pakistani immigrant, you can start criminal proceedings against the lawyer without any judicial supervision on this. [[14.50]] And the legal consequence is that you can ban this legal aid provider from the border range of eight kilometers. Again, there will be no judge who will apply this, and if they do, they will win all the lawsuits in Strasbourg. But that's not what this is about, it's about you threatening me with prison again, intimidated me, making me hate completely meaningless. In addition, the reason why this whole illegal aid can't be understood is because it doesn't have to be imagined that the lawyers of a legal protection organization or someone who provides legal assistance in such a case, it's lying in the slumber at the border, and when they see a man crossing the border, they're crawling over to see if you need help to enter the country. That's not how it works, and you know it. It works by entering the territory of the country, in the transit zone where it is already legally located, in the transit zone, the Immigration and Asylum Office begins its asylum proceedings, and there in the transit zone the asylum seekers who have submitted the application, provide assistance, for example, to the staff of the Helsinki Committee, which you so hate so much. So it is incomprehensible what illegal residence we are talking about when it is legally in the transit zone, has submitted a request for asylum and a refugee procedure has already started. I have a little hope that you know that, and you don't find yourself in such complete nonsense on this issue. Then they are infinitely evil, inhuman and heartless. And the person who wants to push through such a law is actually trying to fire the last pillar of the rule of law here in Hungary. A man who threatens innocent people who provide help in prison is not worthy of being a representative, he is not worthy of saying that he is looking out for the interests of the Hungarian people. The real solution to the real refugee problem was mentioned here, namely that we are looking for a solution at the root of the problem, said Lajos Kósa himself. The only problem is that you are cooperating with exactly the man and the government Viktor Orbán is working with Vladimir Putin - which is interested in the exact opposite of solving this problem. When Russia and Putin are interested in sustaining the refugee crisis so as not to allow the international community to act effectively against the Assad regime, they want Europe to be weakened by the mass of asylum seekers. When Putin vetoes international military action against the Assad regime, and you support it, Viktor Orbán supports this, you do not want to address the root of the problem, that is the biggest problem. You know, I once spoke to a asylum seeker at the camp in Debrecen whose eight sons were killed by soldiers from the Assad regime. Eight sons! It's not an illegal immigrant, it's not because he wants to work, it's because he's still trying to escape his last family members and try to stay alive. Now, these people are not being helped, they are being attacked by these people, they are attacking organizations that help these people, but they are supporting those who are interested in sustaining the war. This shows that this whole bill is pointless, misleading, deceiving, full of lies, and, moreover, it does not respect the fundamentals of the rule of law when it threatens people with prison for non-existent crimes. In addition, it has been said here that they do not think that they will retaliate here on the Helsinki Committee. There are churches that help people, whether the Catholic Church or the Reformed Church or the Maltese Charity Service, which can fall victim to this law in the same way, just because you refuse to acknowledge that a government should not be dealing with these problems here, it is necessary to deal with the real strengthening of the border and the problems that really affect Hungarian people, such as the deteriorating situation of low wages, health care or education. Don't worry about such things, look at the real interests of the Hungarian people! Thank you.
u2018-06-05-67	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Timea Szabó. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to make a statement may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett.
u2018-06-05-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have grown accustomed to the fact that the Orbán government responds to each constructive criticism with a harsh attack. If anyone has a suggestion for your thoughts or bill, he becomes a Soros charterer, a migrant petter, or a traitor to his country. With the liberals, we are saddened to see that in Hungarian public life professional dialogue and constructive debate took over, and Fidesz responds to every criticism by attack, which leads to the sharing of Hungarian society and the escalation of public debate. We've heard the voices of civilians in the last few days. We have heard what the UN and the European Union think. We know that many of the Fidesz European party family also condemn what Fidesz intends to do to Hungarian civil society organisations. We know the story that the government wants to protect the country, and anyone who expresses a counter-opinion or otherwise believes how it should be safe, while preserving the freedom of the citizens of the country, is willing to put a constructive proposal on the table in a refugee case, and who does not support the government's efforts, is acting against you all against the Hungarian nation and against the interests of the Hungarian people; who does not define his position on refugees according to the campaign of hatred or the shut-in nationalist approach, you label him as a traitor in Hungary and irresponsible and stupid in Europe. Stop Soros is not rejected on a purely humane and principled basis, but there are many professional arguments to reject the government's law of stigmatizing civilians, quoting Eastern authoritarian systems. The bill goes against fundamental European values, fundamental human rights and democratic values. I know for a fact that these three don't mean anything to you. At the same time, however, I must draw attention to the fact that you have adopted 20,000 people in the order of magnitude through the residency bond scheme without any kind of control. You quarreled with Hungarian and Hungarian, then deceived Hungarian society, when Hungary secretly fulfilled the quota and received 1300 refugees. Ten billion people were spent hating those in need of our help. Not only refugees, but also those who assist them and those who express other opinions, are hated by crowds in this country. You are responsible for this historical crime. Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán began his third term by declaring that an old-fashioned Christian democracy would be built in the future. It is clear that democratic values, freedoms and European values no longer matter to you. For this reason, I would like to draw your attention to what your Prime Minister said: Viktor Orbán is working to protect Christian Europe and Christian Hungary, at least that is what he claims. I ask you, when spending tens of billions of taxpayers is the sole goal of inciteing hatred against aliens and other thinking Hungarian social groups, how does it fit into the love at the center of Christianity. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to learn from you how, in the name of Christendom, you can give your name to a bill that goes against the most important teaching of Christendom, with neighborly love. You want to adopt a law that will permanently eliminate Hungarian civil society organisations that help other people. You see those who treat their neighbors as criminals. One year in prison is a threat to those who wish to help people who come to our borders with legal advice or information. [[15.00]] How is that even possible? Is this the old-fashioned Christian democracy? Is this Christian neighborly love? Is that the values you want to protect from refugees? Ladies and gentlemen, Please listen to your faith, your important religious teachings. Do not support the package of laws of inhumanity and hatred. If you do not want to stand up for democracy, European values and fundamental rights, stand up for the values of Christianity! Stand up for what Europe after World War II means! Stand up for unity in diversity. Stand up for Europe to remain like this! Put an end to their own exclusion policy, so that they can remain truly European. I hear from your words that's why you want to fight, so do it for him. In the light of the above, I am confident that you will choose Europe and the European Union instead of exclusionous nationalism, hate propaganda and the shut-in nation. Choose a free, democratic European Hungary, which does not hide behind the pretense of the challenges, but wants to solve the problems that roll before us! Put your vote next to a Hungary that does not raise walls between people and people here in Hungarian society or beyond our borders, but is fighting for social cohesion! Why not set a goal for a Hungary that respects both the norms of the rule of law and democratic institutions, as well as human dignity and fundamental rights? That's what neighborly love would oblige you to do. In light of this, I trust that you, as well as any well-informed Democrat in the ranks of the opposition, will say no to Stop Soros. Thank you for listening.
u2018-06-05-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Anett. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2018-06-05-70	Mr President, Dear House, I would argue somewhat with the opposition speakers before me about the fact that most of our borders would have been approached by those in need of help. I am arguing with this fact, at least in the area, period and region that I have examined, and in fact in the region, Röszke, Magyarkanizsa, Asotthalm and other areas have typically been dominated by those coming from the economic approach. But if we are looking at the organisation of immigration, and I think it is a matter to be thoroughly examined, then the Fidesz-KDNP activity is the most important issue, I think, to be examined. I am interested in your very direct, concrete, concise opinion and response to the fact that one of the largest resettlement programmes in Hungarian history, called the residency bond programme, you are willing to abolish it, so to permanently erase it from the system, not only suspend it, temporarily suspend it, but permanently terminate it. Mr State Secretary, how do you intend to come before us with sufficient seriousness with a package to limit the organisation of immigration, if, in this so-called bond business, Hungarian taxpayers have lost more than HUF 17 billion, and the relevant brokerage companies have gained more than 150 billion profits and brokerage fees, and meanwhile, tens of thousands of people have been placed in the hallway of Hungarian citizenship? And don't be frivolous, Secretary of State, that running on international wanted lists would have been a full-scale national security review, that's not true. I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State his personal opinion as to how acceptable it is that according to the news, 81 percent of the clients on settlement bonds were transferred by a Caymanian company to your supposed good friends, who broke off more than 150 billion brokerage commissions on the fact that Hungary was clearly in danger. Are you therefore willing to put an end to this system forever and permanently? Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-05-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai, Fidesz.
u2018-06-05-72	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, At the young age of Mauthausen-Gusen, debrecen theologian, young Dr. Zsigmond Varga's slogan, similar to that of the Andrássy family, unfortunately died a martyr's death in Debrecen, said: "To show the truth, not to show it; to act and not to babble, not to build or to project an apparent, artificial world, but to show reality and to keep the truth above all in mind. The smart man raises a barrier before the flood comes, the responsible farmer puts the flock in a safe place before the storm, the good pilot prepares a route plan and looks at the weather report before taking off. The government's bill before us in the jurisdiction in which it can take action is an answer to what is happening in the world today, a response and action to everything that threatens the existence of all of us today. It protects border security in accordance with our international commitments, clarifies the field of competence and action for the law enforcement, takes action against those who wish to circumvent the law, and also serves the Schengen system of course. The government's bill is well-conceived, creating a legal barrier to those who wish to circumvent the asylum convention and those who promote illegal behaviour. The proposal enforces the power of our state and the interests of the people here. With some simplification: the private sector, ownership and protection of property, is the protection of state institutions and public order in public law and state law. As the proposal is justified, the public order and public security of our country are protected. As lawyers, we know that as a general rule of law, every crime violates public order, but I have always spoken in favour of it, as in the legal debate between Zoltán Magyary and Győző Concha, at the beginning of the last century, it appeared that public order is part of not only the constitutional arrangement of the state, its institutional system, but also our basic values in the wider sense. When it comes to the survival of our country and Hungary, we cannot be too careful, and if necessary, we cannot be strict enough. The world around us is not only becoming more dangerous and unpredictable from a security policy point of view, but rather, not in public, behind diverse stage clichés, often hiding, forces operating without political authority and control want to change Europe and with it our country, transforming it, which is the end result, no doubt, our existence, the degradation and permanent sinking of our culture. These uncontrollable forces in the background want to achieve their goals in a way that sees some organisations, national and international institutions, as puppeteers. These forces consider the laws serving nation states and their moral and legal order to be obstacles. And even if they can't change all international and national legal standards, they're legal lawyers and experts, they're supporting so-called philanthropic aiders to destroy the meaning and practice of certain legal concepts. They provide political and legal guidance on how to circumvent our legislation and finance organisations whose real purpose is to influence national policy, without a political mandate or self-defining as a political organisation. We know very well that there are forces that go beyond the capabilities of individual nation states against the European nations, who have stood in the way of serious blood sacrifices, difficult historical experiences and compromises, peaceful Christianity and its pervasive culture, its Christian-based political thinking and world view. [[15.10]] Why is György Soros and his associates seeing Europe with a kind of unlimited capacity, some copyright hearing, a free field of use, and the only solution to the migrant flood? Why aren't you interested in eliminating the causes of war conflicts? Why are the causes, financiers, arms suppliers, and profiteers of the wars in each crisis zone not targeted in critical fire? Instead of Europe, why don't you see the neighbouring, safe countries of war zones as a host of the world-wide migrant flood? Why is it only for us European historical peoples that the question of conscience is that millions of migrants from war zones who desire a better life, who consider us to be inferior, who do not respect our culture and who do not know it for a lifetime? Having a sound mind to analyse the situation in the world, is it not all that Europe is weak and that weakness can be exploited for political, security policy, economic or profit, and as nature does not tolerate space, it must be exploited? Is it not in the background that all the spiritual, moral, and economic interests, which feed on Christendom, and the market, and not underestimated, a multitude of wealth that Europe is yet able to show, awaits for speculant consideration? The eternal purpose of the speculator is profit, its means: deception, the creation of cunning fear, increasing uncertainty, and often well-designed chaos. Many stockbrokers have become wealthy with the above methods, and György Soros is not far from using the above methods, his speculating activities are being attacked by national economies and thousands of broken families are crying and suffering today. The stock market world is based on wolf laws, and the acquisition of money controls the daily lives of the businessmen there. What do speculators say between themselves? What you can get today, do not delay tomorrow, or more cynical in elegant clubs: today is a lie, tomorrow is $10,000. In the Balliberian context, the sentence that philanthropic love governs György Soros and his organizations financed by stock market speculation and the overthrow of currencies is a kind of defense. What philanthropy ruins the thousands of years of culture of an entire continent, which involves the humiliation, desecration, threats to believers and unbelievers, and even the countless murders of women? But we can also reflect on the philanthropy that suppresses good Christian thinking in the bud and considers its own mental superiority to be unquestioned. These two words ring a bell to me, indisputable and philanthropy. Let's just remember, the communist ideal system was, according to the Communists, unquestionable and so-called philanthropic. Man was the highest value in the interpretation of the Stalin Constitution. The unquestionable and so-called human-centric nature of the communist regime has resulted in the destruction of countries, cultures, civic values, historical traditions and religious communities, as well as of over a hundred million innocent people. We still suffer the terrible effects of it today. There should be no doubt: if Europe's leaders allow it, it will eventually overwhelm this historic continent and blur its memory. We also know from the example of Trianon that there is no limit to the desire for power and territorial acquisition. The principles of Wilson, the promises of humanity, the equality and the self-determination of the peoples, expressed by the leaders of the peace dictatorship, have never been realized, neither intention nor instrumental in their implementation. We Hungarians know and feel that we believe only ourselves. No other foreign force takes our fate with its heart, they follow their own interests, seek their own rights, and work for them. However, we are talking about our survival. The fact that EU leaders do not want or are unable to recognise the threat may also result from ignorance, but I would not be so naive: they consider themselves Europe's liquidation commissioners, and we know that in liquidation, wealth is being devalued and its purchasers are being valued. When the government presented this bill, it fulfilled its obligation to protect our country, to preserve our Hungarians, our communities, including our Jewish compatriots, to ensure our conditions of life, to preserve our culture and traditions, to cultivate this land and to pass it on as a Hungarian country to our children. In addition to the already quoted slogan by young Dr. Zsigmond Varga, when those in opposition ranks will vote, I would like to point out a patriotic folk wisdom, which can be read even today over the porters of many Hungarian houses, which means that you can have a house anywhere, but your country is only here. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-73	Thank you, Congressman Bajkai. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-06-05-74	Mr President, Dear House, It is very difficult for us to try to give an opinion on the organisation of the so-called Stop Soros and immigration at all, so that we do not create a stage for the government, because it is in the primary interest of the current government to dance on this stage as long as possible and to maintain the tensions that exist and which are not present on it. What proves this more than the fact that we were discussing this issue in the same lineup, as I recall, in 2015, when the members of the Jobbik faction said that the issue of migratory pressure threatening Hungary's borders was a real and real problem, and Fidesz-KDNP State Secretarys responded that such a problem did not exist, and by the way, 3,000 policemen were initiated in the Heroes' field; that was the essence of the answer. [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]] Then history turned around a little bit. Since Jobbik basically suggested the need to establish a physical border lock, with a year delay, the government did so in the way it is known, but fortunately, fortunately, by failing to set up an independent border guard. You may recall that Jobbik provided the two-thirds in the vote when the defence was assigned to the physical border lock. So, when Jobbik is trying to look negative on the physical border lock, I would remind you that without Jobbik's supporting votes, you would have been able to present an empty and truncated physical barrier to the world. It needed a constructive partner, a co-thinking national emotional party, who provided these two-thirds. You tend to forget that. This is not a very gallant, not very elegant government, so I do not hold this against you, obviously not by the majority of those sitting here, but you are only victims of this decision, although you are the victims of a service, but I must say it is not very elegant to accuse any opposition figure of treason in this matter. Some of you are supposed to be able to do so, even because of certain manifestations, but those who have stood up for national interests at the level of votes, numbers and mathematics, at least not fortunate, because you may agree with me that there will be no Fidesz government in Hungary forever, you will still be sitting in opposition, and then you will miss a constructive governing party very much. I promise you, once God decides that we can be in that role, we will try to be elegant and constructive; we have learned from you or some of your representatives how not to behave against our opposition fellow Members. Returning to the subject, I think it is very important to clarify that I reject all forms of immigration organisation, there is no form that I can support, so that I can support in broad terms the considerations behind the bill before us. What a physical projection of this and what a codification disaster you have created has already been said to me; I can fully identify with the knowledge that a graduate lawyer with a good heart certainly does not support this slendrian work. But I must also say that if I do not support any form of immigration organisation, then the residency bond programme you have come up with calls for answers. [[15.20]] Once again, the 17 billion HUF loss you caused the Hungarian taxpayers, and the 150 billion HUF deficit that appears in terms of brokerage fees. But we also need to see that if we do not support organisations, associations, civil society organisations that organise immigration, how and how long it can happen that the government supports them on a budget basis, with budgetary money, or even with the EU's mass of resources in Hungary. This is the case even if István Happy was not aware of it, or he does not understand my suggestion in a visible way, because he likes to shake his head. I hope you'll respond to that after you've looked into it, because there's something to respond to. Question, for example, Mr Secretary of State, is that the Association for the Assistance of the Asylum Migrants received HUF 25 million for the implementation of the programme to support the integration of refugees, which you had something to do with. The point of my question is whether we will be faced with this line in the budgetary debate directly or indirectly, so whether it is still planned to support this organisation from any source. I have not yet gone to the housing programme of the city of Budapest to support migrants, because it also exists, and the papers of this have been requested by our representative from the capital of Tokody Marcell Gergely, and he has received these papers. I do not wish to break up the framework of the general debate, but I would like to be reassured that these organisations will no longer be supported by you. I mean, I understand the rhetorical war on your billboards, but that makes sense if they can support all of this in the realm of reality. And it is also very important to know that while the European Union is providing 75% support for these projects, someone here has decided to load a Hungarian 25% share. I would like to know whether this will be decided at government level, whether it will be decided at prime minister level, or whether it will be discussed at a government meeting. It may be my ignorance that I do not know the exact platform for the decision, but I assume that Mr Secretary of State can help me in this debate and therefore support my upbuilding on this issue. I would like to add that I am quoting to increase the employment of refugees and to help them stay stable on the labour market in a competition launched in 2015 a Soros organisation received 63 million forints, and this programme is going to run until June 2018. Perhaps it is appropriate and appropriate for me to ask where the millions you sent here from, whose decision it was made, from what source it was made. I understand that everything will be answered by the European Union, the European Union, with whom you are at war all the time, but here the tens of millions of people who have been given away from Hungarian sources are very ugly. But let's not go any further than the project "Hungarian Kindergartens and Schools," which also won HUF 34 million in this topic. I would like you to believe that I do not want to argue with you in a hairy way, but that I would like to see action, communication and reality at last, so these three spaces finally meet with you, because we find that while they act rhetorically against the organisation of immigration and do the right thing, I support you in this - in reality you have implemented a protective conscious resettlement programme where you have exceeded the quota expected by Brussels. Don't wave your head, Secretary of State, you've taken in more people as protected people than Brussels has expected of you. In addition, tens of thousands of people were sent to the entrance hall of Hungarian citizenship by implementing a bond programme, along with qualified corruption mechanisms. We can also see that neither the Geneva Convention, nor the Union that you have insulted, nor the United Nations have obliged you to develop a housing programme in the capital of Hungary for those who are protected, asylum seekers or migrants of any kind. So you in those areas that you thought you wouldn't find out, you're overachieving international expectations. And indeed, like Secretary of State Altus, there will be other officials who will give interviews about these, Gregory Tokody Marcell, representatives of the capital, who will ask for the data, so these things will come out. Therefore, it would be much more fairer to say to my happy fellow Member, do not growl under his nose, press a button to speak honestly about these issues. You are a pro-government Member, so you have much easier access to these data than I do, and we could have a constructive debate on a national minimum issue where party standing should not in principle count. I mean, our basics are the same, right? As believers who approach our borders are in need, you and I are fellow Members, aren't we? I think we'd both give food, drinks and quarters for a very short period of time out of philanthropic love. But that very short time should not be about permanent residence, not about resettlement, but about going on with God's fame to the country of destination to which he was going. The fact is that the Hungarian people who think normally agree on the basics. You're the only ones who don't speak frankly on this issue, because while you're putting zero tolerance on the paper, you're taking in a lot of people you're fighting on billboards. And the end of this election campaign was when your main campaign message was a very well-defined crowd and a stop sign. This is your constructive political message. I'm amazed why they can't communicate honestly. I do not in itself object to the assumption that you have supported these organisations belonging to or close to the Soros network or carrying out similar activities by tens of millions. I am simply asking for a lack of frank speech, in addition to the fact that there are slender points in this proposal that require clarification. For example, as regards the ban on a circle with a radius of eight kilometres, if you ban a man living in a border area from his home or from his home, he will be homeless, or where will he go? Obviously, I am not worried about those who are fraudulently organising immigration to Hungary, but a self-respecting team of lawyers, a codificator team, will consider what they are doing and find solutions to these questions. It wouldn't be far from me to have a taxicatative list of what organisations they think about, what kind of activity, what kind of sanctions a person might expect to run into such an activity. I say, too, that you should expect the necessary, proportionate, hard sanctions, but this can be done on the basis of a normal, delimited and professional-standard bill. The one lying in front of us is not necessarily. I very much hope that one of the most important issues for me will not be lost by the Secretary of State. Yes, it is about the fact that according to the data of the Government Debt Management Centre for the establishment bond scheme, the budget was damaged by more than 17 billion, and the intermediaries put more than 150 billion in their pockets within a structure where 81 percent of the customers were reportedly supplied by a Caymanian company. This could be a qualified corruption mechanism. I wonder at least, Mr. Secretary, if you are willing to stop this construction permanently, not just suspend it, not dance around it, but grab the problem and finally solve it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2018-06-05-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! Here's a bill before us, which if a lawyer comes before you, your first question is why this is now. Because this has nothing to do with the original Stop Soros, it has nothing to do with migration, it has nothing to do with your desire to protect Hungarian citizens from migration. I should like to say that the Fidesz government was the first in this country to prove that it could not cope with migration, because if migrants had reached the Eastern Railway Station, it would have been rather unpleasant, no matter how much government would have done it. It is also true that, of course, it was the only way to scare the people of Budapest well, that it could be waiting for you if this extremely victim-minded government did not protect you. Now, let's get down to the details. The first question is, when we want to regulate whether there is a life relationship or an unregulated relationship, uncertainty in case law that requires regulation. That's the first question. The answer in this case is that in Hungary there is no shortage in our rule system and our institutional system of not being able to protect the country from migrants. No. There are facts of illegal border crossings, there are facts of smuggling, there are a number of unlawful conducts, both in the Violent Law and in the Criminal Code, for which we are sanctioning you, for which you can be prosecuted. [[15.30]] The next question is: in order to protect our borders, are there laws that define what the border band is, how to behave, how to enter the border, how to sign up, what documents should people have? Does that happen? Yeah. Do you miss him? No. The next question is: the police provide protection of the state border, which is also included in this proposal. But I'm sorry, he's been doing this for three years. I really hope that a two-thirds government hasn't just remembered that it's been protecting the border for three years without a mandate. Because then just one more step forward is that, let's say, an international organisation finds out that a measure against a foreigner may not have been legal. And then maybe even the damages lawsuits will come over the head of our country? Is it really amazing that after three years, someone would think that this should be regulated in a package of laws? ! If it wasn't regulated before, then why did it, if now it's nukes... nukes... it's necessary to regulate [[Károly Kontrat: Road branching.]] I'm sorry, is that how it's regulated? There will be others, my fellows, that you will have difficulty, this is not a rare occasion; but I urge you never to have any. Then the other question is whether these instruments, which are included in this package of laws, are missing from our legal system in order to protect the country from migration. What has been included here in the regulation is not a shortage. There's no way they couldn't have done this without it. But if it is said in this House: our fellow Members, we have found that the legislation is not tailor-made enough, it is not precise enough, it is not written enough to be able to apply it well in the case-law, and we know that these are not cardinal issues that we have put before you, but we feel that it is precisely in order that the expectations of the case law can be achieved according to our political intentions, which is why we need to present this. But I apologize, then we shouldn't say on the M1 news every hour that the Parliament is discussing the Stop Soros that we're going to protect the country from migration, and otherwise, if Parliament doesn't vote for this, millions of migrants will come into the country. Because I note to you that in the Bakony Mountains, during the election campaign, I was very shocked that the 50,000 forints pensioner living in a 40 square meter house was more afraid of meeting a migrant than if he would still have a pension in two or three years' time. Can you imagine that? What propaganda you have accomplished is that simple unfortunate people, who actually live on the brink of starvation, and everyone in your midst knows that a southern migrant in Bakony mountains will never in life take away either his home or his pension, yet you have been able to bring him to the state of mind that he is more afraid of this than the specific danger to him tomorrow or the day after, which he is sure is not migration. Of course, there is no single Hungarian person, especially a representative, who does not want this country protected from any person or organization who has no place here. This is not a question, migration must be rejected. Hungary is also objective and subjective inability to serve as home to any ethnic group, any culture Hungary can accept. There's no question about it. A few hours ago, in this House, our fellow Member, Vice-President Csaba Hende, said that the Hungarian judges should be called upon, that the Hungarian judges should be checked, because they judge that the government and the majority of Parliament do not like it. But please, if that was the biggest problem a few hours ago, then why would you like to present a bill here in this House that if you voted for it, there is no judge who will be able to apply it. They've put in such poor, undefined, controversial and incomprehensible rules that they're gonna have to be judges on their feet, who can interpret them accurately and that's exactly how they're gonna apply it. I'll give you just one example. Article 11 says that anyone who is not persecuted in his home country or in the country of his habitual residence because of his race, nationality, membership of a social group, religion, political conviction, so whoever is not persecuted and who is helping him must have the consequence of the fact that he is being pedanized in the penal code. But please, I'm sure you've already heard that the prosecution's representation is the prosecution's, and I think you've been pleased to hear that the prosecution has to prove the prosecution's facts. Can you tell me how a migrant from Eritrea will prove that he wasn't being chased there? So you don't have to prove the actual one, you have to prove the negative one. We all know that those of us who have ever been in court can't prove "no" otherwise. You can only prove the facts. And after the organizer has a responsibility if the prosecutor's office proves that he wasn't persecuted by the man he helped, well, I will see how the Hungarian prosecutor's office takes the negative in court, proving the life situation of a person from, say, 10 thousand kilometers there in front of the Hungarian court. There is no Hungarian lawyer today who would say, not only here in the House, but also outside the House, that this bill has benefits, meaning and applicability. And I can see that when this is voted, and people may be prosecuted for such acts, and they will avoid the court, in three years' time, what we will hear from Vice-President Csaba Hende: that the Hungarian judges refuse to judge in the interests of the government, because we have brought 10 helpers and organizers and not one has been convicted. They won't be able to convict him because the D.A.'s office won't be able to prove it, and if the D.A. can't prove it, no one can be convicted. At least I feel that if we're not in the '50s, and I don't think any of them would want to practice this activity there, it's impossible. There is also the 364 to facilitate the same illegal immigration. §, which is, in fact, an existing section supplemented by various legal facts. The end is that there's room for a ban. Now, in the previous legislative provisions on smuggling and illicit gambling, the judges knew about where to ban a person from being convicted. But when these additional facts are included, I hope that at some point in this debate someone will tell me where the judge will decide where to ban it from. From the 8 kilometers border line? From the county? The country? Where do you ban it from? Because the border is very long. Its range of eight kilometres is not small, but how will the judge determine where it will be banned from, not to mention, I merely modestly note who will be able to verify it. What we see is that the law, and I am sure that the amendment of the various laws in this salad law, was not written by the same hand. I think it is not the same hand, because terminology is not harmonised in the amendment of the various laws either. I'm just giving you an example. When you say you can't or can't enter this border zone, anyone who, it's perfectly all right, wants to go through or stay there has a legal consequence. Yeah, but then we're gonna do the pass when we're gonna make the state border. There he says that anyone subject to criminal proceedings can't stay in there. Now, if you'll excuse me, your stay is a permanent stay. It is quite common to apply the legal terminology of this in any way in life. Can you go through it? And if someone gets caught and is on the street, then he can say that I'm just passing through, I'm not staying here? [[15.40]] And I won't even talk about it when one of my fellow Members just said that, and by the way, if his permanent residence is in the 8 kilometers border line, and the unfortunate one, say, operates a taxi, and accidentally helped three Afghans cross the border lane, and otherwise he will be banned from his own home. So these rules are not suitable for what the legislator has brought before this House. You can ask yourself that if there are so many problems with this, if it is so inapplyable, if we do not really see that in practice this is really a way of preventing migration, then we must ask what is the real goal here. It's very, very simple: communication. It's nothing more than a communication trick. In all the public and government press, it can be announced every day, every hour, that it becomes known to the simple, unfortunate people that Fidesz has once again tabled a bill, because it is the only way to protect our citizens from the migration crisis, from the burden of migration. The only question I would like to ask you is: if you are doing this so loosely and easily, then why are you not telling the same social group that, in the summer of 2015, our Home Minister refused to vote for the primary resettlement quota that was set, which was only around 890, and within two weeks, the Hungarian government wrote to Brussels in the summer of 2015. And when the Prime Minister's meeting was already held in September, the 1294 quota was not about the persons to be received, but about the conduct of the proceedings. Therefore, wherever the migrants or asylum seekers may be in the territory of the Union, we are carrying out their proceedings, and there was no reception. But compared to this, as my fellow Members have said before me, they have falsely taken 20,000 migrants for money, and we are now at about 4,500 people, I would like to point out, because I am constantly monitoring the statistics of the Immigration Office, with about 4,500 people we have adopted in recent years. So we have overachiever overachieved what we did not want to do, and which is basically the struggle of this country against this problem. You have every opportunity to protect this country as a government, and you don't want it with such poor laws, but with the actual government activity that is your duty! Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-77	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Secretary of State Károly Kontra indicates that he did. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-05-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to reject the remark made by Andrea Varga-Damm, but also by several opposition representatives that this is a poor, unacceptable, satochism, poor quality bill. I would like to say that under the leadership of Mr László Felkai, Minister of Public Administration, the staff of the Ministry of Interior, who are also present here in the current general debate, have prepared this proposal to the best of their knowledge, taking into account the interests of Hungary and serving the legislative needs of the Parliament, and to the best of their knowledge. Excellent, well-prepared professionals who have served Hungary for a long time. So this voice, Congresswoman, and everyone who has violated this bill, I reject it, because these findings are unfounded, and there is nothing to support. I'll start with this. [[Márta Demeter: Why didn't you say in the debate to respond to it?]] The other thing I'd like to say... I have also listened to you with great patience, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, please do the same. So what I would like to say a second time, and this is at least as important, is that we tabled this bill because the government's aim is to protect Hungary and protect Hungarian people. Andrea Varga-Damm was not here in September 2015, when we adopted the legislative proposals, partly two-thirds and partly-half laws, which enabled the construction of legal protection, living protection and the technical lock, the fence, and we were able to stop the wave of migration that flooded Europe and also wanted to flood Hungary. These proposals were necessary, and the government made those proposals. But you know, Congresswoman, and I say to everyone who is concerned that security is an important issue for which there is much more to be done tomorrow or the day after tomorrow than today or the day before or the day before. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's very wise!]] That is why this proposal is here, because the objective has not changed. We promised in the campaign, honourable opposition colleagues, in the campaign that we would protect Hungary, and that is what we will do. And we will fulfill that promise, just as we have fulfilled all our promises. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's for sure!]] I am pleased that the Hungarian people evaluated this work on 8 April 2018 and gave the Government of Hungary, the Fidesz-KDNP government, a two-thirds mandate to do its work in the interests of Hungary. MEP Ádám Mirkóczki took part in the briefing at the end of May because it was also said what it was, there was no discussion - it was a briefing, where, under the leadership of two ministers, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér and Minister of Justice László Trócsányi, we gave representatives of the parliamentary factions a briefing on what these two laws, the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, and the purpose of this bill we have just discussed were to set out. We have asked the honourable opposition groups to support it if they have a proposal. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that President Adam Mirkóczki, who represented Jobbik, said at the same time and now during today's debate that he considers this proposal to be supported overall by making certain corrections. On the other hand, as if you, Congresswoman, were not sitting in the same faction, you were talking about something else. Once again, the saddest thing was, believe me, I have been here for a long time in Parliament, and I have long had the honour of answering the questions of opposition representatives is that such a hateful speech as you have done has not been heard fortunately for a long time. Well, Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, whom I respect by the way, even though he is not here, I answer. It says why people who arrived through Serbia received protection, why they were granted refugee status. Serbia did not comply with its obligation to take back, in which case the Hungarian authorities had an obligation to carry out the asylum procedure in substance. That's what happened. It's not about helping, it's about organizing, which is criminal. And he asked if the Catholic Charity or the Maltese Love Service could be sanctioned on this basis. I would like to say that this is not the case, because whether the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service or the Catholic Charity Service is not being sanctioned by the Hungarian Government, it is to support you in carrying out the activity that you have not mentioned here in today's debate. The purpose of this bill is to sanction those who clearly provide assistance, organizers or activities to those who know that they have not been persecuted. And I will say again in the answer what is the purpose of this bill that we are discussing today: that Hungary does not accept the asylum application of immigrants who are not being persecuted. So we say clearly that those who are not persecuted should not come, the petition for refugees, if the bill is passed by Parliament, will not be supported by the Hungarian authorities. Congressman Mirkóczki also asked what the police's additional license was based on this bill. [[15.50]] The answer to this is clearly that border-security restraining is a clear record of this on this issue. Congressman Zsolt Molnár, who was the lead speaker of the Hungarian Socialist Party, would also like to respond to his comments, even though he is not here. The aim of this proposal is to stop illegal immigration. The concept of organizing the current Btk. is also aware of the organisation of illicit gambling, the judicial practice is able to consider and determine in a specific case whether the crime is to be carried out. I think it is important to trust the Hungarian courts and their professional activities. In the following, I would like to respond to the contribution of Agnes Vadai, representative of the Democratic Coalition, to his speech as a keynote speaker. We also said at the information meeting at the Ministry of Interior that Ferihegy Airport was not subject to the 8 km rule, we made it clear [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Objection! Border!]] And I'll tell you right here. He mentioned the Geneva Convention, the Geneva Convention. I would like to inform you that the Geneva Convention states the principle of the first safe country. This means that asylum applications must be lodged in the first safe country. Unfortunately, this is not the case in practice. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You didn't listen!]] People in criminal proceedings will be banned from the eight-mile zone, the presumption of innocence is not unlimited, it is still known by the criminal law currently in force. I was talking about Ferihegy Airport. I would also like to say here that Agnes Vadai called this proposal Goebbelsi propaganda. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It is! It is!]] I refuse to do that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This isn't Goebbels propaganda. This is Hungary, the protection of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people appreciated this on 8 April, and we will continue to comply with trust in the future, so I reject this comment, this analogy, which you did. I would also like to respond to the comments of Mrs Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of yesterday's decision by the Hungarian Parliament, our colleague Lajos Kósa is the chairman of the Defence and Police Committee, so he is not the future president, and I say this only as a clarification. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We look forward to your arrival. Márta Demeter: Wait! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: If it's gonna be as funny as it used to be, I'm sure! Defiance. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I hope, Madam Vadai, and the person who has spoken, Márta Demeter, that you will meet your expectations, Mr President. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He'll do it. He asked about Frontex and about the European Border and Coast Guard. The Government of Hungary has supported the creation of the European Border and Coast Guard from the outset. It was created with 1,500 people, but Hungary provided the required number, so Hungarian police and Hungarian people also serve in this coast guard and border guard. The problem is that a significant part of this 1500 number of people does not perform effective border protection activities. We want the number of the European Border and Coast Guards to increase, increase and actually create a task for the protection of borders. The other issue, which has also been mentioned, is the protection of the Schengen borders. I would also like to say here, before the Honourable Parliament, that Hungary's Government has a fundamental interest and a fundamental objective in maintaining the Schengen area so that we can guarantee the right of free movement. That is why we say that we expect everyone, every country, to protect the Schengen external border. The Prime Minister of Hungary has made a proposal earlier in the European Council to allow those who do not fulfil this obligation to fulfil this obligation instead of to fulfil it through another country. The protection of Schengen borders is essential and we reserve the right of free movement. Hungary, all Hungarian people, is in the interest of all Hungarian democrats to do so, and Hungary sets an example. I would also like to say here that from September 2015 we have spent more than 300 billion forints to defend the Schengen border. When the Prime Minister of Hungary turned to the European Commission to reimburse at least 50%, we received a negative response, honourable Member. Nevertheless, we are still protecting and protecting the Schengen external border. Hungary is, by the way, a country that wants to fulfil all its obligations and obligations in the European Union and to comply with them. That is what I would like to emphasise. I was talking about Frontex. You said it wasn't solidarity to send three policemen to Macedonia. That is so insulting again, honourable Member. It is not offensive to me, not to the government, but to the police, to the Hungarian police, and it is offensive to the Hungarian efforts, the Hungarian people. I'll give you the data. We didn't send three policemen to Macedonia, as you say, but 696 people were on the mission, so it was nearly 700. It's a powerful force, believe me. This is a strong force for Macedonia. [[Márta Demeter: Will there be a warning system, Mr. Secretary?]] Hungary is making serious efforts and is making serious sacrifices in order to help. This year, we sent 150 policemen to Macedonia, and 300 policemen to Serbia. Compared to the power of Hungary, this is a huge commitment, but it expresses our intentions that we want to help, we are solidarity, and we want to help Serbia, Macedonia, too, if necessary, Bulgaria. I am only saying this because I suggest, with great respect, that you consider it when you say such a thing. I don't know where you got this information that three cops are insulting, and I don't think you're worthy of saying things like that as a congressman. [[Márta Demeter: Don't set it that way, Secretary of State.]] He asked me a question about smugglers. To date, 44 cases of smugglers have been launched. In 2017, 2016 and 15 respectively, this meant a thousand-scale procedure. We're definitely taking action against human smugglers. According to the law currently in force, it is only possible to act against smugglers who carry out this activity for so-called money, but by adopting this bill, it is also possible to take action against those who are simply transporting migrants to the border. I am sorry that Mrs Timea Szabó does not have a comment here. He also calls it Satochmunk. It's so painful to scold the excellent colleagues of the Ministry of the Interior... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It hurts so much, oh, it hurts so much...]] I think they're hurting the sacs, by the way. It's a double insult and it's untrue that... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's hard! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask my fellow Members that we really respect each other. I assume, and I know for a fact that our colleagues, government officials, work for the interests of Hungary, as well as we, the government, and I hope that you may feel the same way, and that we can cooperate. By the way, Minister Pintér has called this seven-party briefing and asked for it - he has heard it - to submit a proposal, to make a proposal, he has promised that he will consider it in substance. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't be ridiculous.]] I say, at the end of the responses, that if you are serious about serving Hungary's interests, you should make an amendment, because according to the house rules, there is an opportunity to present an amendment to the issues that you consider important to make them even better, to serve the goal that is in Hungary's interest even more. Timea Szabó doubted that this bill says nothing more than the legislation currently in force. We deny that, and even say that so far the organizing activity has not been sanctioned, it will be. So this is definitely a novum, and it certainly gives the Hungarian authorities a new opportunity. [[16.00]] I would also like to emphasise that legal legal assistance will remain unpunished, which my fellow opposition Members have tried to paint black here. He says border surveillance, dissemination of information material, network. Since the crime can only be committed intentionally, it is important what was the purpose of these activities. They need to know that the unsub is organizing for people who are not being persecuted, exposed to immediate danger, who are able to pay the fee for whom they can identify where he is going on his smartphone, so it is not persecuted people, but economic refugees who want to take advantage of the services that are available to the state to which they want to go. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] He says, "Do you need help if someone buys a bus ticket and the bus driver lets you on the bus?" I asked him to take the bus ticket to Serbia, but he didn't answer that. No, because the bus driver's activity is not an organizing activity, but, of course, if a person organises buses to travel such people from Serbia to Hungary, for example, he will bring them to the border and set them on their way there. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You used to rent buses at Röszke!]] So these must be made clear. By the way, if we observe, three people spoke on the part of the Jobbik faction in this debate, President Mirkóczki, who gave his support, obviously also expressed criticism, but said that he thought it possible to support it, and then came the opposite of two comments. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Well, in response to the question of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I would like to say that the Government of Hungary and the Ministry of the Interior do not provide housing for beneficiaries of international protection and asylum seekers in Hungary. The government maintains secure and unguarded accommodations, and the shelter of the protected is arranged in these accommodations. The European Union's Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund has provided support through a programme announced in 2013. Therefore, once again, the European Union's Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund has provided support to national authorities through a 2013 programme to assess the housing needs of beneficiaries of international protection outside accommodation and to ensure social work. The Ministry of Interior is not responsible for the qualification of EU programmes; the Ministry of Interior has fulfilled its obligation to provide applicants with conditions for access to the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, honourable Member. So I think it is very important that we speak the truth on these issues, and that you will hear the truth, because you have made this so serious accusation that you must respond to it. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are going through a general debate on a very important bill and, finally, I would like to begin by thanking the party factions, because I should have started by thanking President Lajos Kósa and Mr András Aradszki for providing support for this very important bill by Fidesz and the KDNP faction. That's what gives me that spine. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Gerincet can't even give!]] This gives us the background to which we can calmly tell Hungarian people that we do fulfill our promises and protect Hungary. But we want this support to be as broad as possible, and that is why we have turned to opposition parties to consider whether they can support this proposal. I ask you to thank you for your contributions, by the way, and for the requests for our staff, for government officials... with great respect and affection, so that you don't hurt them, and we stand by. So I ask that, if you have proposals, you put them forward in the form of an amending proposal, and we will consider them in substance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-79	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. General debate on the draft law amending law for harmonisation purposes until closure. The government referral is T/335. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2018-06-05-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As you know, the General Data Protection Regulation has been mandatory in all Member States of the European Union since 25 May, including in our country. The bill, which is to be discussed today in this House, lays down the necessary provisions for the proper implementation of the EU Data Protection Regulation. This would include, in particular, the designation of an authority to guard the protection of personal data, in order to enable it to carry out the tasks reserved for the data protection authority of the Member States under the Regulation as a result of its established status in the Fundamental Law. Dear Parliament, In January 2012, the European Commission presented a package of proposals to reform the currently applicable data protection standards, the need for which was justified by rapid technological progress and the new challenges brought about by globalisation. According to its function, the regulation seeks full legal unification, so that the regulations that apply horizontally in the areas covered by its scope are directly in force and become applicable in Hungarian law, but, at the same time, by starting the application of the regulation, within the framework of the narrow margin provided for by the regulation, our country was primarily subject to a deregulation obligation. In addition, the Hungarian legislator has a positive legislative obligation to comply with the provisions of the regulation and to implement it. As regards the Regulation, this obligation means, in particular, the provision of appropriate institutional and procedural legal frameworks related to substantive rules, in particular the designation, conditions and procedures of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the body to be established to ensure the protection of personal data, the data protection supervisory authority in Hungary. The purpose of the bill is therefore primarily to appoint the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to exercise the tasks and powers established for national authorities under the EU Data Protection Regulation. Dear House, It is important to highlight the fact that Hungary has already put particular emphasis on the protection of personal data from the change of regime. A high level of personal data protection in Europe was also ensured by the Constitution, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Publicity of Data and the resulting practice of the Constitutional Court. A high level of protection of the protection of personal data was not only maintained by the Fundamental Law and the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, but the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information was established as an autonomous administrative body to monitor and facilitate the protection of personal data. Based on the current legal environment in Hungary, it can be concluded that the level of protection of personal data in Hungary is one of the highest among the Member States of the European Union. In view of this, Hungary's Government has consistently expressed its view during the negotiation of the regulation that, in view of the very high level of protection of Hungarian data protection regulations in the EU, the new EU data protection legislation should not be created as a source of regulation, but as a source of directive law. However, the EU institutions and the majority of Member States have sought to develop a single, directly applicable set of rules within the European Union. According to the conviction underlying this endeavour, uniform rules can prevent individual multinationals from continuing their processing activities in countries that provide them with the most favourable rules by circumventing different data protection regimes in the Member States. Dear Parliament, It is important to point out that, for the above reasons, it is an important element of the new EU data protection legislation that it has become directly applicable in the 28 Member States of the European Union. In order to avoid the circumvention of different regimes in the Member States by certain controllers with a primarily multinational background, it was necessary to create a common EU law that applies equally in all Member States. [[16.10]] In order to enforce the new EU Data Protection Regulation, they also had to be accompanied by sanctions with serious deterrent effect and therefore the Regulation allows national authorities to impose a fine of up to EUR 10 million in specific cases and 20 million in cases which are even more serious, or, if this is higher, a fine of 4 per cent of the annual turnover. However, it should be stressed that the possibility of a €20 million fine in the press is limited to the maximum that can be imposed by the regulation, which will only be applicable in the most severe, most outstanding cases. However, the government also took into account the fact that Hungary has a very large number of small and medium-sized enterprises, which impose considerable burdens on businesses to ensure compliance with the regulation. Therefore, the bill also contains a rule that promotes the application of public law, under which the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information is a new 77/A. As in Austrian law, it would also designate the starting points for the application of public law. In the context of the exercise of the authority's powers under the Regulation, the bill specifies that the authority exercises its powers under Articles 83 (2) to 6) of the Regulation, taking into account the principle of proportionality. The bill also indicates that, in the event of a first infringement of the provisions laid down in the legislation on the processing of personal data or in the mandatory act of the European Union, the authority shall take action to remedy the infringement, in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, primarily by warning the controller or processor. In our view, this provision primarily directs the authority to apply the sanction in the course of remedying the infringement, considering all the circumstances of the infringement, in accordance with the proportionality requirement which forms part of the right to a fair trial. For example, in the case of a minor infringement, it may be sufficient to use a warning against the controller, while it is obvious that it is serious or to give the most extreme example, in the case of abuse of personal data related to sexual orientation, it is possible and, in our view, it is necessary to impose a specific and sufficiently dissuasive financial penalty even if the law is adopted. As the example shows, it should also be pointed out that the bill does not intend to interfere with the autonomous functioning of the public authority under the regulation, nor would it have the intention or the possibility of the legislator under the rule of law, but only in accordance with Article 24 of the Fundamental Law, i.e. the right to a fair administrative procedure, to declare that the authority exercises its powers under paragraphs 2 to 6 of Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation, taking into account the principle of proportionality. This is in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, as is the case with the provision which states that, in the event of a first infringement of the provisions laid down in the legislation on the processing of personal data or in the binding act of the European Union, the authority shall, in accordance with Article 58 of the General Data Protection Regulation, act primarily by warning the controller or processor. Dear House, With regard to the foregoing, it is therefore important to point out that the application of public law is only directed by this rule. This orientation, in respect of the authority, is only reflected in the fact that the authority exercises its powers at its disposal, taking into account the principle of proportionality, and that, for the first time, the infringement is dealt with by warning the controller or processor, taking into account in particular all the circumstances of the case, such as the gravity of the infringement, its repeated nature and the size of the group concerned. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that T/335. The only provisions that are essential for the implementation of the regulation are laid down in bill No. To ensure full consistency between the Regulation and the Act on the Right of Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, and to transpose the Law Enforcement Directive, further legislation will take place. Dear Parliament, I ask the honourable Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-06-05-81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speech will now be held by the lead speaker, while no two-minute speeches will be possible. I give the floor first to Péter Ovádi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-05-82	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's emphasis on the protection of personal data was already placed on the change of regime, as the law on the protection of personal data, the law on the protection of personal data and the public interest, adopted in 1992, and the constitutional practice resulting from them, provided a high level of protection of data in European comparison. In the area that was revised after 20 years, serious changes were needed, which were made to CXII of 2011 on the Fundamental Law and the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information. It's been passed by law. This not only ensured a modern legal environment, but also established the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information as an autonomous administrative body to monitor and facilitate the rights of data protection. Based on the current legal environment in Hungary, it can be concluded that the level of regulation of the territory in Hungary is one of the highest among the Member States of the European Union. In January 2012, the European Commission presented a package of proposals to reform the currently applicable data protection standards, the need for which was justified by rapid technological progress and the new challenges brought about by globalisation. The proposal before us therefore means the adoption of standards recently adopted by the European Union, an obligation arising from our membership of the Union. In view of this, Hungary's Government has consistently expressed its view during its negotiations on the European scene of the regulation that, in view of this high level of protection, the new EU legislation should not be established in the form of a regulation, i.e. a directly applicable EU act, but in a source of law, i.e. which provides Member States with room for manoeuvre, which requires transposition. However, the EU institutions and the majority of Member States have sought to develop a single, directly applicable set of rules within the European Union. According to the conviction underlying this endeavour, a single regulation can prevent certain multinationals from continuing their processing activities by circumventing and exploiting different data protection regimes in the Member States, in countries providing them with the most favourable rules. In view of this, the proposal of the Government of Hungary to adopt the new general data protection legislation in the legal source of the directive has not been adopted. With the start of the application of the regulation, it is necessary to lay down provisions essential for the implementation of the regulation, in addition to the preservation of the Hungarian data protection legislation ensuring a high level of protection, within the framework of the regulatory scope provided by the regulation. In view of the fact that the Regulation has become applicable from 25 May 2018, it should therefore apply as a directly applicable norm in the Member States of the European Union. The proposal therefore contains only the provisions which are absolutely necessary for the national supervisory authority to be designated by the regulation to exercise its powers under the law which is now to be adopted. Thus, this version of the submission is referred to in Article 38 of the info law. As a fundamental provision, it would state that the powers and responsibilities assigned to the supervisory authority in respect of the legislation under the jurisdiction of Hungary are laid down in the General Data Protection Regulation and in this Chapter and in Chapter VI. The National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information shall exercise it as specified in Chapter 1. As the reasons for the bill state, the Government takes the view that the regulation should be applied primarily against multinational companies making use of the distinction between Member States' legal systems, while other economic operators, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, should apply the legal consequences of the warning, taking into account the principle of proportionality. [[16.20]] According to the Commission's calculations, the proposal will reduce the administrative costs at EU level by replacing the different content of national rules based on directives, which will save businesses around EUR 2.3 billion a year in the European Union. In addition, the package of proposals can have an economic impact on its contribution to enhancing consumer confidence in services provided via the Internet, which will have an incentive effect on growth, jobs and innovation in Europe. In preparing the proposal before us, it was a priority that domestic businesses should not be burdened with an unviable obligation and that the data protection benefits resulting from the legislation that has so far been in existence in Hungary should be sustainable. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-06-05-83	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-06-05-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, We have heard in the leaders that Hungary has the new regulation, if not to be transposed, because the regulation is directly in force, but the Hungarian legislation must be adapted to it. When I was preparing for this item on the agenda, and when I first saw in the invitation that this was going to be the case, I expected a longer proposal, I will tell you frankly, Mr Secretary of State. Perhaps you have acknowledged in your last words that there are still some proposals to be made, which will mean the transposition of a directive and perhaps even the transposition of the provisions relating to the regulation and the positive legal changes to Hungarian legislation. I thought that this would work, since last year, you may have put me into a social debate... you'll be able to tell me better. I have seen a proposal - which was not the government's position yet, but it may have been put to a social debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner nodds.]] Then I understand you were at the stage of the social debate. This was a 66-page material, which would have included the directive, and would have included several passes to the regulation in relation to Hungarian legislation. I'd like you to answer the question, Mr. Secretary, as to why this didn't come before the Parliament. What other changes might be included? I know it was a campaign this spring, so now it's a special situation for Parliament to meet so late, let's say, compared to February, but by the deadline of 25 May, we've already passed. So if you knew that there was going to be a campaign, this would have been the case, as otherwise planned and released for social debate, even in 2017, all the more so, because businesses that need to be prepared to apply the new rules are obviously faced with a great burden, and now, when the EU regulation, GDPR, has been directly in force from 25 May, the Hungarian legislation that only designates the authority, NAIH, as the authority set out in the regulation is actually published. So, unfortunately, we are already over the deadline, and if certain rules still come before the Parliament, then it is of concern legally that this should have been done sooner. Obviously, you'll be able to tell me why this didn't come before the National Assembly. We are pleased that it has been said in the press and now also from Mr Secretary of State that the authorities and the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in Hungary will not immediately punish small and medium-sized enterprises. This, of course, would have been more joyful, as I said, if the preparation period had been long enough. That is why this regulation is in 2016; I have repeatedly said before the plenary of this House that I feel that they are always trying to transpose these rules into Hungarian law at the last minute. This is a bad practice, so this may need to be changed by the governments at hand. Of course, it is also gratifying that the principle of proportionality, as I said, will be raised, but it will take a few years for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to use these rules. Not to mention that we can see the EU's forward-looking efforts to have the same rules everywhere, but we also need to say from an IT point of view that the people I spoke to are IT experts, they said that they are technically obsolete rules. Obviously, I should address these criticisms to the Union, but perhaps even where Hungarian law retains its scope and scope, the government may have something to do with it. Your speeches, in which you said that the Hungarian Government proposed a directive instead of a regulation for the first time, then added, perhaps the speaker of Fidesz and the Secretary of State said that in addition to the regulation, the same rules should apply everywhere, and that multi-companies should not be able to escape to put their premises and headquarters in the country where the rules are milder, to my mind, that the regulation is better, a more effective solution, and that is written in the explanatory memorandum. For me, the reasoning here does not support the previous position of the Hungarian government, but supports the form of regulation. It is true that where, let us say, a directive is too large a framework, these large companies will find the opportunity to get out of regulation, and otherwise this is not just for data protection rules, but for other regulators. It is also, of course, positive that businesses outside the European Union may fall within the scope of the new provisions if they are targeted within the European Union or if they manage the data of EU citizens. In fact, in recent times, this is only partly related to the regulation or the drafting of the regulation, because it has been on the EU scene for quite a few years, because we have seen a number of scandals about Facebook and large companies that, indeed, these companies are buying and buying, sometimes trading data for free, not to mention that smaller, even medium-sized companies other than large companies can buy data from large companies, as theoretically anonymized data, from Google and Facebook, even data packages that can be returned to sensitive information. It was just in Germany if they followed up a few months ago with a huge scandal about the fact that without further ado, the data that users were browsing could be purchased in a package by virtually any company, and therefore they were not completely anonymized, reconfigured, and this is a serious violation of personal rights. So it is understandable that the European Union is trying to deal with this regulation. To add what I said, the regulator is always after these big companies, and there's a step down. But let us hope that at least if we take one step forward, this disadvantage will be reduced, but it cannot be said that the whole task can be solved. We are waiting, as I said, for the answer to the question, if you can answer, Mr Secretary of State, when will the supplement, i.e. the transposition of the directive into Hungarian legislation, or the other passes resulting from this regulation, come in. I would also like to add that, of course, the regulation is legally binding, but it is more difficult for Hungarian law enforcement to expect one eye to examine EU law, another eye to look at Hungarian legislation, and try to figure out how, let's say, in an EU regulation, a passage can be complied with by Hungarian legislation. [[16.30]] So in this case, it would really be the right thing to do or it would have been the right thing to do in time, but we still hope that this will be put before the Parliament - if the relevant parts were to be transferred. After all, the EU law does not prohibit these parts, which are otherwise in line with the regulation, from being incorporated into the Hungarian legal rules. So, Mr State Secretary, of course we understand the substance of the proposal, its reason, but I must say that this is not very elegant in terms of timing, and we would have expected a much thicker package. That is all I have been able to say on this proposal, and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's answers, because it will help us very much to decide how we will vote on it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-85	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-06-05-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said about the specific proposal and its history, so I would not repeat those sentences myself. I would rather try to present this question from the perspective of citizens or Hungarian SMEs. Because most importantly, I think that in the last few days, in fact, this question has become a public issue in a week or two. We have not heard much about this before, and it has been said before me here that this Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council was adopted on 27 April 2016, so more than two years ago. I think that this is a very long time, and it certainly gave the wallet and the government a very long time to socialise the issue, which is an important issue. I therefore believe that increased protection of personal data is an issue that is good for uniform regulation and uniform action throughout Europe and thus also in Hungary. However, these two years have been largely unused by the government or not used properly for preparation. I say this in a way that, by the way, if we look back on the protocols, proposals for harmonisation are supported almost without exception by opposition politicians, of course these are not the proposals that we have before us today in this House, for example, two proposals that have led to a great debate, there is a great internal political debate on these issues. Proposals for harmonisation are not usually subject to such a debate. However, this delay and the fact that this regulation will become directly applicable in the European Union from 25 May 2018 and thus also in our country, this delay is, in our view, a serious problem. Obviously, the content itself is clear, so it installs with NAIH the tasks and powers which are otherwise laid down in this Regulation. It's okay. The fact that it is in the final provisions that all of this must be done in the light of the principle of proportionality and, in the event of a breach of the rules on the processing of personal data, to give the authority a warning is also fine. So I have to say that I would not argue with as many of these questions as possible in substance, but I see that the loss of these two years and, for example, the fact that NAIH itself acknowledged in its communication that a number of legislation still needs to be amended in the future is what I think is causing the problems of the last few days, of a few weeks for SMEs and for Hungarian people. Thus, on the one hand, the SME sector is afraid of administrative and financial burdens and is afraid, although the warning is first, but it is also possible to read on the Internet news that they may be afraid of fines later on. So to sum up, I would like to say that a number of problems and concerns have been raised, which can be read, if not in this proposal, but I think that in the otherwise rapidly accelerating process of harmonisation, I think that these should be taken into account in the context of the stakeholder bodies and other comments on the subject. Obviously, the proposals need to be amended accordingly and efforts should be made not to create an unnecessary burden for the Hungarian people as well as not to create an additional administrative and financial burden for SMEs that makes their lives very difficult. At the very end of my speech, I ask that the government speed up the legislative proposals for harmonisation such as this be brought before Parliament. I think that's appreciated. It would not be the biggest debate in such proposals anyway, so I am confused about what has happened on the subject in the last two years. Thank you very much, Mr President, and we look forward to your response to your comments. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-05-87	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-06-05-88	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us is primarily of a technical nature and is necessary for the smooth application of the European Union Data Protection Regulation. The regulation itself is a step forward in data protection at EU level, which, by the way, guarantees and guarantees the rights of all Hungarian citizens, we hope, not only against large companies, but also against the data-gathering tendencies of government and government parties. I must say that it is also an important and eligible rule under which the authority is obliged to act only gradually, using a first warning in the event of a breach of the rules. I must add that we consider this necessary and necessary for all public bodies to be subject to any kind of inspection, not just in the case of the Data Protection Authority. But I would also like to underline the important question of what happened for two years. Since April 2016, it has been known that this regulation has been adopted, which will be mandatory in Hungary. The European Union takes seriously the time needed to prepare for its entry into force, which is why this period of entry into force has been so long, and these two years have served to prepare for the application of the regulation by law enforcement and the Member States themselves. What took so long for this proposal to come before Parliament? You have just heard from the Member that he would have had the support of the opposition to two thirds in this case. If that is the case, why have entrepreneurs been excited about this new regulation for months or even years to come into force? They are excited, while the government has not done its homework, and now it has presented us with legislation which will enter into force as a fundamental law on the day of its publication, which is in fact absolute absurdity, obviously necessary in this case because the application of an existing EU regulation already requires this amendment. So this would not be the normal order of things, legal certainty, the predictable functioning of businesses would be served by the government itself carrying out the tasks of this type of legislator in good time and providing an appropriate time of entry into force and a time of preparation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-06-05-89	Thank you very much. There's no members of the LMP here, so obviously they won't speak. I give the floor to Bence of Tordai, the lead speaker of the PM Group.
u2018-06-05-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fidesz is constantly trying to tell us that the opposition is not governor. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Now we've found out who's not capable of governing. The Fidesz government had two years to bring the domestic legal environment into line with the EU General Data Protection Regulation, GDPR. This task has not been solved in two years, 10 million citizens, 1.7 million entrepreneurs and SMEs and more than 60,000 civil society organisations have been insecurity for two years. In two years, it has been achieved that the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information will be designated as the Hungarian authority implementing the GDPR with two weeks delay. From the 88-page regulation, by the time it reaches Hungary, there will be a one-page legislative amendment proposal. I dare not lift it to be punished, but we see that it consists of six paragraphs, of which two are entry into force. [[16.40]] It is clear that further legislative action will be needed, which will create a new need for adjustment and a new burden for stakeholders. In fact, they can make irreversible steps, data deletions, costly IT and other developments unnecessary. It is clear that they did not do their job themselves, causing damage to Hungarian businesses and non-profit organizations of a magnitude of 10 billion. The adopted text of the GDPR was published on 4 May 2016 and should have been applied in the Member States from 25 May 2018, including in Hungary. The European Commission wrote in January this year - "The regulation provided for a two-year transitional period until 25 May 2018 to give Member States and stakeholders time to prepare fully for the new legal framework. We can see that this did not work. On 25 May this year, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information indicated in a communication: . The Hungarian legal requirements in force, in particular the 2011 CXII on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. The Law on Data Protection, which is necessary for the full implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation and for the full transposition of the Criminal Data Protection Directive, and the additional legislative measures necessary for this purpose, have not yet been amended. The National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority intends to carry out the following tasks and responsibilities during the exercise of its tasks related to the exercise of the right to the protection of personal data and to the promotion of them, while ensuring full consistency between the Hungarian law in force and the General Data Protection Regulation and the Criminal Data Protection Directive, and follows a list, not in law, but in a simple communication. Let me repeat the point once again: the necessary legislative measures have not been taken by the deadline of 25 May. Today, on 5 June 2018, we will begin the general debate on this one-page piece of paper. In a few months, we may be able to bring forward further necessary legislative amendments, which will allow data controllers to adapt again at the cost of additional work and additional costs. To sum up, the Fidesz government has not done its job in the last two years, creating legal uncertainty and causing well-quantifiable damage of ten billion to nearly two million businesses and non-profit organisations. I really can only speculate that the Fidesz government is so incompetent to solve a simple legislative harmonisation task, or it is simply that since it cannot be campaigned or stolen, it was not motivated to do the work. Thank you very much.
u2018-06-05-91	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. We now have the speakers who have checked in in in advance. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, on behalf of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-05-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There have been very serious or serious criticisms from the opposition, but these are not really in line with the facts. I would like to say that, for example, Hungary's data management legislation was far ahead of the legislation applied in Europe in both quality and severity and detail. Therefore, we need an amendment that seems to be a piece of paper in order to complete this process of harmonisation in Hungarian legislation. Dear Parliament, As we know, we are managing more and more data in electronic form, which is, of course, a good thing, because we can handle our affairs very quickly, but it also represents a new threat for us, especially for the population and individuals. These data processings are not always carried out in a transparent way, and it is not really possible to know the form in which users or Internet operators can abuse our data. We can wonder if if, say, we are looking for a product on the Internet, such as a refrigerator, you can visit any site for a week or even for several weeks, this information comes out and you can meet different types of refrigerators. This clearly shows that the Big Brother is paying extraordinary attention to every move we make, every interest we have. Obviously, this has a logic, since search engines and support systems for various Internet usages must have some form of revenue, and the most logical form comes from the use of marketing tools, advertising revenue. However, I'd like to say that in the New York Times, but I think somewhere else, not too long ago, a writing appeared. From this information, Hungarian news sites and other sites have also received and published information, and I would like to present some of them. Facebook, years ago, is a social networking site that you would think is a community-creating site, although it is very far away from it, but anyway - so Facebook gave at least 60 different hardware companies at least years ago a much deeper access to its user data than has been known so far. Companies can also find giants such as Apple, Samsung, Microsoft, Amazon, HTC, BlackBerry and others. In addition, manufacturers had access not only to the data of the specific users, but also to their friends, as this has caused a great storm in recent months from Cambridge Analytica scandals. Data were often made available without explicit consent by this sympathetic community site. This wide access, according to the paper, could also violate a decree of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission in 2011. For a reason, the Facebook leader had to answer a few questions before the US Committee not too long ago. Let's just say this question-and-answer lasted several days, almost a week. He also responded to this article in the Facebook Communication. According to the Communication, all partners who have received such access signed an agreement that they can only use this access above and Facebook does not even know about abuse. Well, this Facebook owner is very uninformed. It is worth noting that, in principle, Cambridge Analytica has agreed not to use the data that, in their case, are not entirely legal, they have been transferred to them. Then, apparently, they could have used it after all. The situation is therefore rather strange and rather dangerous, because, in fact, the misuse of data affects very sensitively the personal, intimate sphere of many people, and if they are also used for commercial purposes, which has been the case in the past, this is definitely an activity that needs to be severely restricted. This measure, the introduction of GDPR, was defined and required by the European Union in line with its logic. To date, European legislation has not been fully uniform, so companies have been able to choose a Member State with the most favourable data processing regulations and continue to do so. On 25 March 2018, the Data Protection Regulation adopted by the European Parliament and the Council, known as the GDPR, entered into force. This is aimed at raising the data protection of EU Member States to a common level and developing a common practice in order to reduce abuse. It is the intention of the creators of the Regulation to provide users with a wider control option and to provide them with a high degree of protection from data fishermen and data providers themselves. [[16.50]] One of the main innovations of the regulation is the radical increase in the level of fines. Prior to the entry into force of the GDPR, the maximum fine that could be imposed was HUF 20 million, now this 20 million remains, just to be interpreted in euro, so now the maximum fine is EUR 20 million. It is extremely important to stress that we have allowed a transitional measure for domestic SMEs, so in the first period there is not a fine, but a warning and a call for rules, and then, of course, if they cannot or do not want to comply, they can expect an adequate fine. On this basis, I highly recommend that, like the Fidesz fraction, the Hungarian Parliament support the submitted proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-05-93	Thank you. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on today's debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed. I will ask the author if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Secretary of State says yes. You have the floor.
u2018-06-05-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank all those who supported the proposal before us with their comments. I would also like to thank Member Gábor Staudt for his constructive contribution and the questions raised by Mr László Varga. The other draft we discussed has indeed been discussed in society. The fact that this proposal is before us includes the most necessary amendment, the involvement of NAIH, and, of course, it was submitted to Parliament on the first day of submission. I think that we can discuss the next one before this is concluded, because its social debate and discussions have largely been held, so the draft is under the final touches. Indeed, the warning is an opportunity for NAIH, in which it may be able to help, orient, let us say, those who make mistakes about what to correct before the next test, so this step can also be seen as a kind of assistance for the control authority. My next point is general, not so much so that the regulation itself is an applicable piece of legislation and even a mandatory piece of legislation. There was also a part of the matter that, as I mentioned in my speech, we wanted to achieve a policy wording in Hungarian legislation. This would have given us the opportunity, where appropriate, to introduce stricter rules within national frameworks in certain areas. This is not possible now, but it really needs to be applied in a uniform way. We hope that we will also be able to benefit from this, especially from multinational companies; if there were softer countries, they would not be able to deviate from this regulation. My fellow Member László Varga mentioned that there was two years of time, but the text of the regulation itself was known, and the regulation, as I said, is directly applicable, so those affected on the market, or those affected, may know the text of the regulation itself. The amendments that are coming now will make it clear and will report the adaptation of the Hungarian legislation, but those who wanted to prepare or to be informed about this issue did not come into any delay, as the text of the legislation was known. I did not fully understand Mr Gergely Arató's contribution, namely why this was not adopted earlier. He may not remember, because he was not a member of Parliament, that we were talking about a fundamental law. When there were two-thirds votes, well, in that case, DK members had not yet joined Parliament to prevent the majority of governments from adopting two-thirds laws. So, let me put it this way, it was a kind of obstruction on their part of the parliamentary presence, and when they appeared, then the adoption of legislation itself was obstructed in the two-thirds vote. In the warning you mentioned, of course, it is also a constitutional principle in other official proceedings that the right to a fair trial must be guaranteed to everyone, so in other cases this condition is not unknown. What my fellow Member Bence Tordai said, I may have already given the answer to a large extent that this text of the regulation was already known, who was specifically involved, could prepare for it. On the first day we were able to submit this draft itself, we can accept it, the official part will be clarified, and the second submission will follow. But, as I said, it is not a directive transposition, where delay would prevent application. By the way, if we look at the EU website, i.e. on the Commission website, how the other countries stand with transpositions, we can see that Hungary is in the middle field at most in terms of how fast it is or not, but in no way in the other cases it is not. Thank you for your attention. That is what I wanted to add. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-05-95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The seventh amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law will now be followed up by a general debate and conclusion. The government referral is T/332. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that during the general debate, the opening speech of the author, the speech of the lead speakers and the speech of the first independent Member took place. The further speeches will now take place. For now, there's an application like this. I give the floor to Péter Ovadi, a member of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-06-05-96	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the debate on the mandatory resettlement quota. We consider this amendment to be particularly important, because Europe and Hungary face new challenges that justify strengthening our national sovereignty. I could say that this amendment to the proposal is a common national issue. Ladies and gentlemen, We cannot stress that in order to protect Hungary's constitutional identity, Christian culture and our safe future, we must give the government all possible legal means. The bill before us, which states that a foreign population cannot be introduced into the territory of the country, serves this very purpose. Unfortunately, the opposition has already prevented the adoption of this. The Hungarian people, on the other hand, made it clear both at the parliamentary elections on 8 April and at national consultations in recent years that they did not want their safe future, Christian culture and national identity to be compromised. The compulsory resettlement quota is clearly rejected and the government must therefore act with all possible means. In our view, we here in Parliament must give all the support we can to do so. By declaring in the Fundamental Law the prohibition on the introduction of a foreign population, the amendment confirms the principle of the State's right to determine who can live in its territory, which is otherwise enshrined in international law. This was, among other things, authorised by the Hungarian people when they expressed that they did not ask for the aspirations of the bureaucrats in Brussels, they could not take away Hungary's sovereignty, and they did not want a resettlement quota. More than 3.3 million people voted against the resettlement quota in October 2016 and in the 1st constituency of Veszprém County. In order to protect Hungary, new rules need to be established that clarify Hungarian legal provisions and are able to reverse attacks from Brussels. And if the Fundamental Law states that it is forbidden to install it in Hungary, it is much easier to create detailed rules and protect them on the international stage. That is why the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group supports the bill, and I ask my honourable fellow Members to vote in the interests of the nation when it comes to the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-06-05-97	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, from Jobbik.
u2018-06-05-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I must correct my fellow Member Péter Ovádi, this is not the law that the government around Fidesz-KDNP has tabled, but a completely different proposal. By the way, I would like to inform you that when, after the election, perhaps, the Prime Minister indicated that there would be a Stop Soros legislative package again, we also thought that he would present the same thing that he had put forward earlier, and that there was a very serious disagreement between the government, the governing parties and the Jobbik, saying that Jobbik is a migrant petting zoo and, by the way, he wants to break down the fence. It's a completely different set of laws, so to speak, a very bright set of laws. I think it is very likely that some kind of pressure from international space could have been put on our government, on the basis of which it did not dare to initiate this regulation more forcefully. I would like to point out that if this is indeed the package of laws, this amendment of the basic law would serve the purpose of trying to preserve the sovereignty of our nation at the highest legislative level, and by no means be it possible for Hungary, either under the pressure of international organisations, to receive different groups of peoples, immigrants, refugees, then I must say, as in my previous speech, that unfortunately this will not be enough. [[17.00]] It is useless to regulate with any high standard if, by reason of its physical abilities, organisation, commitment and perseverance, it is not possible to do so. We have already seen in previous years that a mass of migrants was able to enter Hungary when, already in January 2015, all of their experts dealing with domestic national security, who have continued to carry on the activity of alarm on public television, stressed the need to establish a protection system, to define the procedures, mandatory administrative organisations and procedures that can prevent mass immigration, you have rejected this, you have bagatellised it. But now we know that it wasn't about bagatellization, it was about distracting attention from immeasurable corruption and scaring our society for decades, from which long-term political capital could be used. We would be most pleased, the Jobbik Group, its party and its party leaders, if they were to present material, whether or not at a fundamental level, because the rules of the Fundamental Law will not prevent anyone from ever wanting to come in here, but it will be possible to prevent a country with a strong army, a strong police force, a strong and sincere leader, a united society, a hate-free society, I stress, a society based on love and solidarity. Well, then we can protect our country from anything. But then we won't be able to protect him, if he's so soft, and if he doesn't have anything, take him, we're trying to operate with good rules. You can make press out of this, you can announce it on different channels of MTV every hour. Most of the society that listens to Kossuth Radio and watches M1, constantly encounters the fact that now the Fidesz government protects society from migration. But you of all people know that a law, a piece of paper, has never been able to protect anyone from anything. Especially when it is in the Fundamental Law, which is granite-solid, but which has been amended seven times already, that we must respect all international treaties and that there is no Hungarian law or any Hungarian legislation contrary to our international commitments. That's never gonna happen on M1 or Kossuth Radio. And you know that the part of migration that really comes from a crisis area, indeed as refugees, is coming to our country or the territory of the European Union on the basis of conditions which really exist for those who are protected, if the Fundamental Law is amended 28 more times and everything that can only be excluded is already excluded, the Geneva Convention is still applicable. I wish to stress that even if anyone thinks that the Jobbik party, the Jobbik faction, the leaders of Jobbik want people to come in here in bulk, even under the Geneva Convention, because Hungarian society, this Hungarian culture, does not tolerate foreign culture and the existence of alien people. For any reason, Hungarian society would not be able to accept people who wish to enter Hungary in a mass for any reason, either in resources or in emotions or in culture. Everybody knows we don't want to. I would therefore like to state that we do not want to do so. But let me also stress that to do such shadow boxings, which, you know, we will not be able to protect our society by these rules alone from this extraordinary difficulty... I do not want to repeat, it has been said in this House many times today that, by the way, you have overachieved what you have undertaken because of our association with international organisations, on the one hand, and have provided for us on the other. I'd like to say a few words, because it's a so-called salad law. However, I must say that it is extremely unpleasant, especially as lawyers, that you were able to pass a new legislative law in 2011. It was also clearly regulated in the legislative law, on your initiative, to regulate a kind of living condition, a kind of rule system in a law. You have undertaken this as an obligation, and a law is constantly introducing completely foreign, unrelated relations with so-called salad laws. Originally, the purpose of the salad laws was not to regulate completely independent relations, but to ensure that if a kind of regulatory package is needed, but the same conditions of life need to be amended according to different legal disciplines, then there really should not be any specific legislation. I'm sorry, but it's completely alien to our relations today that they would regulate at the same time that they are protecting the private residence and the home, and that the identity of our constitution is inviolable. So these two have nothing to do with each other in this context, in this context. We know that this is all because you know precisely that in this amendment to the basic law there are several elements that any decent Hungarian MEP immediately votes for, because there is no question that private residence is protected at home. You have to be protected on the basis of fundamental law. Everyone knows that every decent politician, congressman, says that our constitutional identity is inviolable. Definitely. We also know that we do not want anyone to decide at any time to relocate ethnic groups or a multitude of people from a foreign country. Why wouldn't we want to stop it? But this package, presented here, is once again full of traps, unfortunately there is a factor of mistrust in political space that you have developed in eight years, that we say a lot of times, yes, it is eligible. But then the question is, in the basic rules, because it is just a basic principle, it is just an explanation of the principles that are contained in this draft amendment of the basic law, and then what rules will be presented to us under the aegis of this, which will no longer be acceptable. I would like to draw your attention with all due respect. Here, in this Article 5, the word population is used. [[17.10]] On the one hand, it would be good to define the population, but if we say that it is the definition of the population that is found in the Hand Dictionary of Értelmező, then the population is a social community, a group of people. We have never heard of any decision in the European Union to relocate, say, Eritrea's entire population to any European country or to say that Libya's entire population would be relocated to the European Union. You may have liked to think of a ethnic group, but then you should enter a ethnic group, because it is such that population, in this context, cannot appear in any way, because the population has a common element: a community of completely uniform people from the same people. So I would consider this use of the word, just because, I suppose, there will be detailed rules for this later, and, as I said in my previous speech, do not put the practitioners in a position to say, at some point, either in a judgment or in any final decision, that I ask you nicely, I cannot make a decision, because the regulation cannot be interpreted properly. Here's the question of a private apartment. I fully share your position, yes, it must be protected, but we do not want this to end with the fact that protests will not be allowed, let's say, on Andrássy Road, because every second house is a residential house, and the rest of the home must be protected. This is clearly part of this proposal as an opportunity. The level of mistrust we have, I stress, is not what we created - that when we look at such a rule, the first question is, what do they want out of it in the end? And I would suggest to you that, for this next four-year term, a number of politicians have already said this in 2011: "Whoever has two thirds can be generous, because all the power is in his hands, and practically his generosity costs nothing. Besides, when we talk about rich or influential people, we always say that someone who can be generous can give up things because he can afford to give up things. I consider that if you would like to do so, and I have taken from the former words of State Secretary Pál Völner, that he is pleased when there is a cooperative, constructive speech, one that supports your goals and your vision, then you also give us the opportunity to completely disperse doubt or mistrust. You can't imagine how much we desire it as opposition representatives, and indeed, it doesn't matter what ideological basis we came here on - that we would very much like to cooperate with the government, the governing parties. Why do we want to cooperate? Because there is a very noble goal: to represent the citizens of our country so that they feel safe, their possibilities of survival are unlimited, and if they follow the rules, they can live with dignity, love, joy, a beautiful community, and it is not hatred, sharing, trenching that surrounds them and become uncertain. Security did not go away because they wanted to insulate migrants, security in Hungary was the main reason why people were in doubt with this harsh propaganda. The insecure man is weak, the insecure man cannot perform, and I cannot imagine that any Member in this country would want our people to lose their creative powers. So the reason I have spoken to you more sentimentally now is because I think that if you put such a proposal before this House, you can count on the support, but there shouldn't be any seed of doubt in it, and there shouldn't be any seed of doubt in it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-99	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2018-06-05-100	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I would like to pick up where my colleague, Andrea Varga-Damm, left off. I would like to take a look at the previous term, when here in Parliament and also Mr Secretary of State said that there may have been a referendum, which has not been effective, but there have been quite a number of people who have expressed their views in favour of what we already know that Hungary's citizens do not want to be an immigrant country, and they would like to see illegal immigration in some form, but obviously the government here has a priority and its responsibility to prevent it. We had already said that a fundamental law amendment would have been necessary at the beginning of 2016, since the referendum, even if it had been successful, was obviously bound by the Parliament, but in the Parliament Fidesz-KDNP and Jobbik agreed that immigration is not a good direction and that it should be blocked. I would add that, after a while, other opposition parties were also lined up. That, in political tactics, because they saw that Hungarian society was not interested in immigration, or they really thought so, let's put that aside now, it is not important, but the point is that we had already initiated a fundamental law amendment to prevent time from going on. There was then a referendum, under the aegis of which I obviously understand that a significant campaign can be conducted. And then, when this happened, they tabled the amendment of the basic law that we really wanted to accept, but my fellow Members have said this many times before me, and not only the settlement bonds, but any form that would allow anyone into this country in return for a fee, would have been our condition for excluding it from the Fundamental Law forever. Unfortunately, this did not happen at the time, although I would add that it was achieved in order to at least pause the bonds, so that it is not possible to buy them now, and this was obviously due to the fact that there was a call for attention to this problem. But what made me look at this situation very briefly is that this proposal, which lies ahead of us, has been supplemented with a few points, and the provisions on administrative courts and home protection have been added, but basically, as far as immigration is concerned, is broadly in line with the counter-story, other than that proposal, which, by the way, is a five-party one, but by the end, it has not been a five-party one, but Jobbik has been involved in the negotiations all along, and we have contributed to finding proposals in a similar professional way that can provide some kind of protection against the provisions of the European Union. Why is this important? This defense isn't 100%, but it's an important step. It is, and it is true, this has also been said before me, Minister Trocsányi in Germany said that perhaps there is a legal dispute in his expozee, and the German Constitutional Court has made a decision that there are passages of the German Constitution, otherwise it is because certain parts of the German Constitution were dictated by the Allies, and after the Second World War, these parts were added to the German Constitution without any change. So the German legislator can't change certain parts of the German constitution, the core of it. That's an interesting historical question. However, the German Constitutional Court argued that it cannot be in these things, which can be called "self-identity" or "national identity," which is presented here in such a way, so Germany could not hand over the powers of the European Union because the German legislator does not have that, and what the German legislator cannot change, it is very simple that it cannot deliver it. So this was the legal thing on which the German lawyers, the Constitutional Court, began to think about how to resist a passage which is compulsory in the European Union, but which violates the identity, constitution and basic law of a given country. [[17.20]] This is another debate ahead of us on how the EU will react if more constitutional courts take such decisions. The Hungarian Constitutional Court has made a similar decision, but without these passes it stands on a little wobbly feet. I think that if we believe in a Europe of nations, then it is important that when a legal debate is held with the Union, at least something should be in the weapon, and then it will be revealed how big that bullet will be, but at least have a legal argument system. So, in itself, I consider this to be a good regulation, but, as I said, it will not solve our problems, but it can only help us fight. So much for the immigration part, and so much for what Adam Mirkóczki said, I share that opinion. Although what is written in Article 5 (2) is that a person who has already passed through safe countries is not entitled to asylum, I like it, Mr State Secretary, I tell you honestly, but I do not know either, I am not sure how compatible this is with the Geneva Convention. You've obviously looked at this, discussed it, the Ministry has experts, experts who can do this. So there is some uncertainty in this, but if we ask the question in a positive way from a Hungarian point of view, then there will be something, then, of course, it is better to have more regulation, but we should consider what we can expect. Well, then we're back to the other rules of the law. My colleague Andrea Varga-Damm was right to say that when we draw up a framework, any regulation can come out of it only if we see a framework law at the level of the Fundamental Law. If it is just a question of whether or not a protest in front of politicians' houses for hundreds of days disturbs the neighbours or whether or not it is necessary to set some kind of limit, then it would obviously be possible to think about this, especially if, let us say, this is also applied to opposition politicians, or if even drones or other observations, the sending of paparazzi to opposition politicians are taken more strictly, then we can say that this may make some sense. But it is true, and let it be said in the debate that if a protest or protest can be made by reference, let us say, even on Andrássy Road, to forbid that there are private apartments there, it may be a concern. Of course, as I said, there are different ways to explain this, for example, in the assembly law, I do not know if there is a plan for this. Perhaps the most elegant would have been if I knew that we were talking about the amendment of the basic law - if, let us say, these laws were presented simultaneously, and then the skeptical opposition could be convinced that we were taxatically aware of what the regulation is about. As far as Article 4 (2) concerns the general protection of the home, the rest of the home is the state, and I can say the same thing: if this passage is, let's say, the effect of what we have seen a lot of times in the area of local governments say, local government representatives also come to us with residential complaints, that, say, at a pub or a convenience store, where the various people are nurturing the streets until dawn and even after closing it, it is annoying, bothering the people living there, but they can't do anything, because the municipality has either made a decree of silence, or they don't, but by the time, let's say, the policeman reaches out, they may move or throw away the bottles until dawn, and it's hard to sanction it in practice, or, if we say, someone's neighbor often throwing big parties, and by the time the police arrive, and the decibelometer is delivered, you can argue exactly how loud it is. So, if this can have such an effect, then, of course, there is the possibility of a positive regulation, as I said, as well as the dangers, not to mention that I have included in this, Mr. Secretary, I think that if, let's say, someone, especially in the countryside, has a populous neighborhood, who likes to disturb or terrorize public peace in his neighbours, then on the basis of this passage, he can say that he has a constitutional right to live in peace. So it would have been good to have a clearer view of how these detailed rules and details would be explained. As far as administrative courts are concerned, because this is also an important point described in this Fundamental Law, it is also a framework. Obviously, all we know is that a supreme court will be set up. The Mansion could have stayed because... as I said in my oral question to the Secretary of State, the timing is unfortunate, and I'm keeping it up. You have admitted that even you do not know that there are still expert meetings, exactly what this will look like, the system of administrative courts, but here again it can be a good system, and it can be a bad system. Now, a lot of people see it, but in this passage, there is no question of judicial independence in itself. Another question is that unfortunately, the operation of the OBH and the operation of Tünde Hando has raised the question of judicial independence in itself in many cases, since if we delegate all the powers to a person, he can do so in a flexible way, and Tünde Hando unfortunately did so: the Constitutional Court stated at the Integrity Code, in the decision of the National Judicial Council, that there was no regular appointment of countless court leaders. It's very painful that the government actually raises its hand at this time of day and says that he doesn't get involved in fighting in court, but that's what the National Court of Justice is supposed to say, and that's the way it is by law, the President of the National Court of Justice. If this is the case that a superior body states that the President of the OBH has acted incorrectly, then it must be something sanctioning, then the government and the Ministry of Justice must do something about it. Unfortunately, this did not happen, so unfortunately, the independence of justice is violated here every day. They asked themselves that the Helsinki Committee's trainings... I did not include exactly what training these were, whether or not the judges had been influenced here, but I am sure that the appointment exercise or the OBH's practice would unfortunately suggest a deterioration of judicial independence. That is why I say that, by the way, the proposal that had previously been included as a draft and that we had agreed on it in the case of justice, unfortunately or not, but I say that unfortunately it has not been possible to bring it to a level that is acceptable, but that there would not have been a single-man leadership at the head of the administrative courts, but rather a body and would have taken administrative courts out of the OBH's system. I do not know whether things are going in this direction or what the final proposal will be, but it is very important to note that what is proposed here in the Fundamental Law alone does not even highlight the detailed rules. So, Mr Secretary of State, so at the end of my speech: the proposal has positive, clearly positive points, and there are points in which, unfortunately, much can be seen. Based on the experience of the past eight years, I can also understand when someone is preparing for the worst when they see an open gate. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But if these laws had been submitted in parallel, they would have been able to resolve these doubts. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17 .30]]
u2018-06-05-101	Thank you, Congressman. There is a two-minute speaker in the person of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-05-102	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to abuse the framework provided by the general debate, so we must say that, in terms of the protection of the sanctity of the home and private life, I expect the Secretary of State, obviously not personally responsible opposition politicians, or even the deployment of drones, to convey to his employers and bosses that it is quite amazing to talk about this protection, otherwise rightly to stand up for its importance, and to destroy the families of opposition politicians, public actors, where appropriate, their elderly relatives and children in another field of action. The fact that, in fact, an independent media network is standing on this, and, where appropriate, it directly loses press litigation, because it embeds in its budget a few hundred thousand forints of losses per lawsuit, is obviously another aspect of this agenda, although I would like to note that Jobbik has won more than 110 lawsuits against the so-called Habony media, while, as far as I know, it has not lost a lawsuit against these media. So it seems to me that there is an organized lie factory, but my respectful request is that if we discuss the importance of this issue, and I agree with that, so I would not destroy your family members or the family members of Viktor Orbán in any way, in any context, I would not protest within a meter, so I would leave out the political scene that has been going on between us for years, but it is my duty not to draw your attention to the fact that this expectation should be mutually met and functioned. I am very confident that every good political player can identify with me that our family members cannot be victims of what is happening in this arena, and if this common understanding is honest, then I believe that a substantial shift in this area can be achieved. I'm going to represent that any of our family members shouldn't be exposed to vexation. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-103	I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The joint general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-06-05-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Several points were raised in the lead speakers' circles, as well as the comments that have now made the debate meaningful. Thank you very much for speaking to all those who either supported the proposal itself or agreed with its objectives at least, and, of course, further discussions on content issues are possible. Excuse me if I falter; Congressman Staudt had the most points in the speeches. It is therefore clear that the package which means the opening of the details, for example, of the freedom of expression vs. the private life version, must be developed, the House must be discussed, the framework given to this further process. But I can say the same about the administrative supreme court. We now have an administrative procedure on what kind of organisation is formed, and an expert working committee has now been convened by the Minister. Obviously, they will put down, on the basis of the international Hungarian traditions so far, the possible models that can be negotiated, of course, even by reviewing the issue of the legal administrative models that have existed in Hungary since 1990, so that we can talk about the period after the regime change in the first place. So the advantages and disadvantages of all three models are hopefully demonstrated by analysis at expert level, and then there is a sense of common thinking that will then be reflected in Parliament's work. But back to the order, so basically what we are talking about is that what made the amendment of the basic law necessary in the first place, we came from a sovereignty issue that the Union itself was actually created for an economic integration, and we have since reached the Lisbon Treaty. It is now clear that the leaders of Brussels are trying to impose directives, decisions or regulations, practically even in matters of sovereignty, and here we must identify the stakes where we have national identity. Congressman mentioned the German model, the Czech Constitutional Court already has a precedent on the same subject, and the French, I understand, have dealt with these issues. So all the nation states have noticed that there is practically a stealthy extension of competences on the part of the Union here. It is precisely the issue of migration that we have encountered the most, so obviously this is what provoked this amendment. However, I would like to clarify some of the concepts of resettlement, and the resettlement bonds have been discussed several times. It is memorable to note the five-party dialogue that took place with regard to the seventh amendment. I remember that at that time, we had practically agreed with Jobbik on the draft text, we practically accepted the amendments that were asked for, and then, as a bunny from the hat, this economic issue that existed on the palette in relation to public debt financing, and that was actually the breaking point that made the two-thirds law not adopted. I don't want to rip open old wounds and talk about it too much, but we have something to discuss on this issue. Indeed, this amendment, which has worked, is a recitation of this almost identical content. Andrea Varga-Damm and Gábor Staudt were not in complete harmony with the need for this or how useful it is; I suppose this will be discussed within a faction, and I would not like to mention this. As far as the other comments are concerned, Tamás Harangozó has given an assessment from an opposition point of view, and I do not think that we need to go through this. In connection with the right of assembly, he had the sharpest points that there was no need for this, or what a limitation it was. The Minister also referred, I believe, in his expozee, to the Constitutional Court's decision in 2016, which imposed a failing legislative obligation on Parliament in relation to the application of the assembly law, to give some guidance here to the courts on the conflict of fundamental rights, since it is still in the assembly law that no one else's legitimate interests should be harmed, but this is a general wording that the courts are unwilling or unable to apply. Mr Gergely Arató: you were here to see how diverse you would like to be compared to what you have. I also consider the present one to be diverse, because I think that our Christian culture is also sufficiently diverse, there are many nationalities in Hungary, yet we can live here in a kind of community, and citizens have equal rights, as opposed to what he has raised. We are talking about who can receive or demand or impose rights in Hungary, and we have to decide that, and we do not have to tell us what to do or what not to do. They were also concerned with the question of the court organisation; I also remember the speech by Timea Szabó, who was talking about Fidesz courts. Well, that's a lot of exaggerating stuff. In Hungary, professional proposals are made within the framework of the administration of the courts of all kinds, of which judges are then appointed, regardless of which organisation is entitled to act on administrative matters. I don't think that's gonna change in the future either. I was pleased to hear Lóránt László Keresztes' comment, as finally a clear voice was heard in the LMP, which clearly stated that, for the first time since András Schiffer's rejection of immigration, they support border protection. Thank you. We hope that you can stand by this opinion. I mentioned Szabó Timea, he claims there is no quota dispute. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is still a case in Luxembourg before the Court of Justice of the Union, where the Commission has sued us for failing to comply with the decision in which we should have adopted a certain 1294 people in Hungary without our consent. I think my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned that we are obviously open to it. I'm telling you, it was a fiasco in the seventh attempt to amend the basic law, where we thought we'd made it that far, but at the time of the prosecution, Jobbik was the one with whom we were able to make the last two-thirds vote. [[17.40]] What I can promise you is that on such two-thirds issues, regardless of whether the majority of the ruling parties are present, those discussions will continue to be conducted with the parties in the high-weight laws, in order to have the kind of basic voice that can serve the background of the parliamentary debate. Thank you, Dániel Z. Carpathian, for your comment. We agree that no one's family members in any way... no matter if it's about moneymen, bankers, politicians, journalists, athletes, it's only gonna happen within the framework of which some kind of approval of those involved is born. So beyond that, they deserve all kinds of protection. Overall, that is all I wanted to say, and obviously we will be able to continue the discussions at the Commission level or later here at the plenary session of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-06-05-105	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Andrea Varga-Damm came forward for the first time: the question of the wage and social situation of social workers. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-05-106	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will have a couple of manias in this four-year cycle, the day before is already the interests and rights of children, and today the unacceptable low wages of the social sector and the extremely low, compulsive level of social life of those working in it. We must ask ourselves whether it is important for us to care for our children when we are not with them. Is it important for us to care for our incompetent family members when we can't help ourselves? Do we care about our parents, grandparents, after their illness or self - supply? Well, the answer to these questions is, of course, yes. We also see that the social system of a country must be in line with the social arrangement of the particular people, the structure of families, the possibilities of family performance, and I see that in Hungary, in this sphere or on this issue, the organizing and contributing activities of the state are extremely poor. Of course, it is great luck, and that's probably why humanity can maintain the level where we are, that there are always people whose purpose in life is to help in the social sphere, which is indeed a cause for joy, but I consider that a single country, a single government, cannot abuse it. We cannot always expect them to be self - sacrificing, self - sacrificing, and not to appreciate them financially and socially. However, in recent years, the number of people who wish to work in the social sphere has decreased significantly, they are virtually on the verge of inability and functioning, whatever institution we are looking at. In the fiscal sphere, 102,000 people work as social workers or social workers, and the average gross salary of those with secondary education is 145 thousand forints, and for those with college education 170,000 forints gross, and for managers 200,000 forints gross. From this I drew an average net salary, and after a new level, a standard was introduced yesterday by our fellow Member Peter James, and this is that Lőrinc Mészáros earns 90 thousand forints in 18 seconds, so I tried to adjust it. If this standard in Hungary as a result of the activities of the governing parties, this kind of fabulous wealth, it means that social workers could not expect more than 36 seconds of monthly work. Because if this type of enrichment is a priority, then those working in the social sphere could demand the same attention for themselves. But I would like to add another figure: the person who has spent at least 48 years in this sector and has at least one higher education degree has a gross salary of HUF 374,000, which is HUF 262,000 net. After 48 years, people can usually retire, compared to those who have the highest level of education and spent the longest time, they still predestined to receive a maximum net of 262,000 forints. But the young person who wants to move in now will receive a total gross HUF 144,000 if he has a college, university degree and a net HUF 100,000. It is just terrible to say these sums, and I consider that this cannot be the goal of a government in the long term. These people must be given the highest level of public-sector remuneration, because they take care of our greatest treasures, care for them, raise them, care for them, and stand up for us on many occasions. I checked to see how we could secure a source for that. Well, for one thing, they don't build at least one stadium. But if I convert it again to stadium construction, for example, I can tell you that after a seat in the stadiums was created from HUF 779,000, this one-time HUF 779,000 could give a more decent income to a social worker for a year. So we're about to find the source from here. But I could say that, in terms of public procurement, a 30-percent payback might be a 15-percent cut, and we're about to have a source. I ask the government to take into account that the existence and work of workers in this sphere is essential for the peace of society. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-107	Thank you. On the next agenda, Mr Sándor Székely, on behalf of DK, asked for a speech:. Why does the government not reduce taxes on fuels? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-05-108	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, you have stayed. Thank you very much for the floor. I have been listening to the long debates over the last few hours on a subject that I think is barely valid in this context. And now I warn everyone that I will talk about an issue that exists, and that in Hungary the petrol price has become 400 HUF. This means that it became much more expensive, because a month ago, when they filled up, it was 3 thousand forints less. Now it seems that we are at the forefront with this price, and if you are asking yourself, my fellow Members, how is that possible, then the answer is that there are two things. On the one hand, György Matolcsy has weakened the forint so far, and the other reason is that you have actually adopted an excise law in 2016, which keeps fuel prices high even if the world market price for oil is otherwise falling. You voted that if the world market price for oil falls below $50 per barrel, the excise duty will increase by 5 for petrol and 10 for gas oil. So the cheaper the petrol on the world market, the more tax will be on it in Hungary, and Hungarian families will only pay at gas stations and then pay for the increased prices of bread and meat, which have risen because of the price of petrol. All this because of Fidesz's 2016 excise law, which makes it not even possible in principle to make fuel cheaper, at least without amending the law. And I would like to note that 14 years ago, János Áder, the current President of the Republic, said, quote: "The government freezes the price of petrol at 250 HUF, because if this does not happen, this means that the government continues to profit from people. If those predictions prove true that the price of petrol may reach 300 forints, all the consequences will have to be borne by the government coalition. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the price of petrol has reached 400 forints, there is where 440 forints, and somehow I cannot hear from you that Viktor Orbán or the government should resign. We don't hear the gas prices need to be frozen, and we don't hear what kind of solution they're offering. They're talking about things that don't otherwise affect the country's real problems. And for the record, this is much worse than the performance of the Gyurcsány government at that time. [[17.50]] In fact, this current petrol price means that you are making a profit on Hungarian citizens, and you are simply taking advantage of the fact that you have become a little predominant in this election. I would like to ask why the Orbán government is profiting from the Hungarian people. If you think Hungary is doing better, then why do we have to refuel for 400 forints? Why not reduce the tax burden on fuels? I'd like to ask the government for two things. First, draw up the 2016 excise law and remove it from it that cheaper oil prices result in higher taxes and, secondly, reduce the excise duty in fuel prices. Don't just talk about Hungarian families, don't just be important about posters, but at least move your little finger and lower your petrol prices! If you don't, I'll remind you again, even according to your own President of the Republic, you're making a profit on people. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-06-05-109	Thank you, Congressman. Erzsébet Schmuck asked to speak after the next agenda: World Environment Day: environmental problems are only increasing. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2018-06-05-110	Thank you very much. Dear House, June 5th is World Environment Day since 1972. Every year, the main theme of the world's day is different, and now it's plastic removal, not for nothing. The products of plastic and its degradation are everywhere, their quantity is increasing, and they pose a threat to wildlife and human health. The mass production of plastics started only 70 years ago, and now 8.3 billion tonnes of new non-recycled plastic products appear in the markets. Only 9 percent of the waste is recycled, 12 percent is burned, and 79 percent of the waste ends up in landfills and in nature, waters and seas. I've just read that 80 plastic bags have been removed from a cetacean's stomach. Looking at the fate of plastic becoming waste, life, including man, can't do much good. If we continue in this way, by 2050 more than 13 billion tonnes of plastic waste will be accumulated in the waste bins and the environment, i.e. roughly the weight of fish living in the water and the plastic floating there would be the same. Plastic waste, its degradation product, is present everywhere, endangers wildlife and human health. Microplastics may absorb pollutants floating on the surface of the sea, transport pathogens on their surfaces, leave chemical additives behind and embed into tissues. For example, microplastics from the use of plastics, such as rubber, synthetic fibres, paints, or mincing, are introduced into the entire food chain and directly into our body through our drinking water. There is plastic in the stomach of more than half of sea turtles, and almost all seabirds. The microplastic, i.e. its concentration, is now the highest in the Mediterranean, but a new waste island of micro-polluting has also been discovered in the southern Pacific. The size of the giant island is 2.5 million square kilometres, and Hungary could fit 27 times. Plastic is a permanent burden on the environment, since even it takes a great deal of time to get out of sight. For example, the plastic strings, the fishing line 600, the plastic bottle 450, the aluminium can 200, the plastic bag decomposes in 10-20 years, but even a cigarette butt continues its afterlife for 1-5 years. For a long time, and still today, we hope that reuse and recycling will solve this problem. So far, China has been seen as the leader of recycling, but China does not seem to be taking on this fine business in the future either. China will stop imports of waste from this year and neither paper nor plastic waste can be imported into the country. With this ban, the largest player in the global waste business is self-limiting, as China has so far made 56 percent of the world's waste processing. Both polyethylene, polystyrene and PVC will be banned, and ships carrying the crushing of PET cylinders will not be allowed to land in Chinese ports. Faced with the facts, since so many plastics are impossible to recycle, to burn, to bury, there is nothing left but to radically reduce the amount of waste. Realistically speaking, some plastic and its devices seem irreplaceable at the moment, but most plastic comfort products are completely unnecessary. World Day's Password: If you can't re-use it, reject it! In the absence of political will, civil environmentalists would leave it to consumers to reject comfort plastics. They believe that many of us will refuse these products, we will consciously choose when we buy them, they will not be worth their production, and then the waste will be less. Intention is good, but too little. Such initiatives need political support and adaptation of the legislative environment. It is clear that our current legislation is insufficient to stop the waste stream. It is known that the solution to the problem is not to address the problem, but to prevent it. As the quantity and quality of waste depends on the structure of production and consumption and on culture, prevention should also be sought in this area. I recommend this solution to the government's attention this day. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-06-05-111	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for the speech after the last agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-06-05-112	Mr President, Dear House, This week, in Parliament's debates, the most important issue of our national fate has been discussed several times, which is the demographic and demographic issue. We seem to be living in parallel with the representatives of the governing parties, of whom I thank the two who have waited for us and are curious about this subject after the agenda. I must say that we are talking about the population issue in which the government, together with me recently, is pleased that the fertility rate is rising and that it seems to have shifted a little bit from a low point in history. I appreciate that as a result, and I'm happy for him, and I'd like to prove that everything that's good for the government is not bad for us. Although these trenches that lie between us now seem unmistakable, common national strategy blessings should be rejoiced, and I believe that all good people are pleased with them. However, if we look at what this fertility rate shows, we can see that despite its joyful increase, the number of women of childbearing age is constantly shrinking, so that the increase in the ratio is not coupled with the increase in the number of living births despite the best of intentions, which would be the real goal. But as we look at this figure, it is clear that it was already a small miracle that from World War II to the mid-1960s this indicator could rise to 2.8, so this was supposed to be a natural European instinct to live. But we also need to see that by the mid-1970s, this rate has fallen to just enough 2.1, which has then fallen below 2 and has continued to decline in Europe since about the 1970s. We also need to be aware that Hungary was able to produce this 2.1 ratio, which would be sufficient to reproduce and replace ourselves, for the last time in 1977. At the same time, in the period of 1977, it has not been the case that today, the number of women of childbearing age in society has decreased to such an extent that it actually makes it impossible in the coming decades to replace ourselves. More than once, we have said here from the Jobbik faction that if we make the best decisions in this area over the next thirty years, regardless of political and party positions, then we can reach zero levels only after decades, so we can stop the eclipse. We need to do this in a way that, with similar success, the historical example does not really show up before us, and to mention another difficult factor, the ten perhaps fastest declining states of the world are located here in the Central and Eastern European region. All of this is a difficult task in itself, a huge challenge. At the same time, it is a historical crime to say that the parties that are currently governing simply ignore problems that make this dramatic situation worse, even though we should now be working on common solutions. [[18.00]] One of these is the amazing emigration on which the government's typical response is that it is actually a natural component, because the proportion of emigrants in the surrounding countries may be even higher, and then they also point to Bulgaria, which is a model of cataclysm and disaster. We do not want to get that far, but the fact that hundreds of thousands of active Hungarians are missing from here, and the fact that Hungarian children are born on the one hand in the torn parts is also a huge problem, it is welcome among Hungarians who have broken into foreign countries, and a small proportion of Hungarian children born in Hungary who are forced to work abroad will socialize or live their lives here later. Therefore, this is one of the factors that this government should respond to the challenge of emigration. This issue obviously concerns a number of factors. The other is such a dramatic housing crisis. I simply don't understand how a government with two-thirds authority doesn't see the problem of a Hungarian youth not having children, starting a family and starting a life together with someone besides the 130 and 150 thousand HUF rents in Budapest. This is the most basic, absolutely everyday problem. I think that we need to find answers to the housing crisis and housing poverty with a public housing programme. Jobbik is constructive on this issue, but we expect the government to respond substantially to its ability to partner with Jobbik's idea as a matter of national strategy. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-06-05-113	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 11 June 2018. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
