u2018-12-13-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 30th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, László Földi and Gergely Arató will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the declarations, information materials and the envelope relating to the family member's declaration of property will be given to the representatives at the reception desk at the entrance of the Chamber, who will be given the name of the minority advocates at the secretariat of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. Dear Parliament, The parliamentary report of the President of the Curia on the activities of the Curia in 2017 on the provision of the legal unit and the control of the local government standards and the joint general debate on the adoption of the resolution proposal until closure. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to Dr. Peter Darák, President of the Curia. Report submitted by the President of the Curia B/716. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/3607. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Darák, President of the Curia, author of the report. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2018-12-13-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The year 2017 was driven by the need for preparation from the Curia's point of view, as in 2017 we were able to act with the knowledge that new codes of procedure would enter into force in 2018. Thus, a significant part of our activities were aimed at interpreting these laws which have already been adopted or are being adopted and preparing the judiciary professionally for their application. However, the new forms of activity launched in 2012 which significantly enriched the Curia's activities have, of course, continued. I am thinking, in particular, about the analysis of case law and the work of the bodies that wanted to facilitate professional decision-making. In 2017, the Curia took a significant number of four decisions on legal units and adopted more college opinions. The various bodies of the Curia have also produced serious professional materials, some of which I would like to highlight. Some of the decisions of the legal unit have carried out a review in principle which has become unavoidable in connection with the entry into force of the new codes of procedural law. In particular, it has revised the previous guidelines in terms of whether they should be maintained for the purposes of the new codes of procedural law or be considered to be exceeded. I would like to highlight the PK opinion on the abolition of the joint property ownership of the property, among the seven college opinions delivered in 2017, as well as the civic college opinion which is perhaps the most important for the inner life of the Curia, which deals with issues relating to the reception of review procedures. It is essential that the Curia shape its reception practice, since it is no longer possible to automatically turn to the Curia in significant groups of cases, and, on the basis of the legal development aspect, on the basis of the consistency of case law, the Curia filter these requests for review. In this respect, we have tried to rely on the practice of the Constitutional Court that has been going back several years. Tamás Sulyok and Secretary General Botond listened to his presentation on this subject at the full meeting of the Curia. The Advisory Board of the Curia, the New Civil Code Advisory Board, published six resolutions in 2017, which are available on the Curia's website and orientate judicial practice under the new Civil Code. The work of other consultative bodies continued in 2017. The most important is perhaps the work of the consultation panel on the register of civil society organisations this year, with a significant reduction in appeals regarding the registration of civil society organisations, the registration of changes and a significant improvement in the procedural situation. In all cases, a reminder was made of the meetings of the consultative body on foreign exchange loan contracts, and these reminders were published in the Curia's paper entitled "Curia's Decisions." The building of the background support of the Curia's organization continued, the PhD programme and the permanent secretary's profession were terminated at the Curia, but instead we organized new senior advisors' posts. Accordingly, this year, 18 senior advisors supported the professional work of the court. The Curia continued its practice that, at the Curia's full meeting, individual council presidents reported on the judicial practice of the last year and a half, thereby informing the Curia judges working in other cases of the developments in the case-law of the case. It is necessary to highlight the regular national meeting of the leaders of the criminal college, held twice a year on a number of issues of principle, as well as the outstanding work of each college, such as opinions on the intervention of the National Chamber of Agriculture and Food and Rural Development in court, the question of electronic contact in the electoral procedure, and very thorough and important decisions on equal treatment and abuse of rights in the labour sector. It was an important development that the Curia took a position in the legal unit decision on the classification of sexual crimes against people under 12 years of age. The Constitutional Court also took a position on this issue, stating that the Curia concerned legislative competence in this legal unit decision. However, the relevance of the interpretation of the law was confirmed by the fact that the Hungarian Parliament subsequently adopted the legal position reflected in the otherwise repealed legal unit decision and amended the Criminal Code accordingly. A large number of citizens have been affected by the issue of real estate traffic, and for many years there has been uncertainty as to how to deal with the transfer of a property by maintaining the right to benefit, the form and content of the contract and the registration of real estate. In this respect, the Curia has set a firm direction in its single-law decision, stressing that the retention of the right to benefit does not require a separate title for registration in respect of the right to benefit, and that the contract can also be drawn up relatively simply in this respect. An important step was the opinion of the administrative college on certain issues concerning the exercise of the right of assembly in courts, which stated that the interior of the property was not a public area. [[9.10]] It was also important to have a civic college opinion on issues related to the elimination of common property, which has finally emancipated the transformation into a condominium as an accepted method of eliminating common property. The civilian college opinion on the authorisation of the review has set itself the objective of orienting the lawyer's faculty in relation to the type of examination they can expect in the case of a request for review authorisation. The Curia has made it clear that it is only for formal reasons, that content issues will be considered on the merits of the Curia. The case law analysis also contributed significantly to the development of the professional work of the Curia in 2017. An important case-law analysis was carried out by the Curia in the field of emergency measures, in the investigation of judicial practice under the new Public Procurement Act. The situation of appeals in relation to electoral and referendum procedures was clarified in 2017 before the elections. We also have serious conclusions on the employer's liability for compensation. I would particularly like to highlight the perhaps most important case-law analysis of the last decade, which has dealt with the theoretical and practical issues of judgment certainty in a cross-law manner, namely the extent to which evidence is required in order for the judge to accept certain circumstances as a fact. It is worth stressing that practice requires a different degree of evidence for each area of law, and this diversity is in line with the different nature of the area of law; we perceive the issue of proof in criminal law in a different way than in civil law, public law and private law. An analysis of the case-law analysing the notary's property protection procedure has made an important discovery, which has highlighted the incorrect practice that notaries sometimes consider legal issues, and this report envisaged the creation of a remedy in this respect. The Local Council of the Curia also worked effectively in 2017: it completed 45 cases and made a substantive decision in 39 cases. Failure to comply with a legislative obligation has been established in five cases. Most of the municipal norm-making issues came before the Curia on land taxes and construction taxes, but at the same time, perhaps thanks to the practice of recent years, only a small number of destructions have been carried out. The Curia's practice did not affect the changed local tax legislation on tax rates this year, which is expected to take place in the coming years. The Curia stressed that it could not carry out an expediency assessment of the municipal regulations and rely solely on legitimate criteria. However, there has been an important conclusion, for example, regarding the constitutionality of the land tax rate setting below the tax ceiling, stating that it may be legitimate, but did not find the possibility for the taxable person to be exempt legally if it was made dependent on housing by the legislator. He reiterated, as in previous decisions, that the taxable group could not be defined in a discriminatory and targeted way. Many fears preceded the introduction of a municipal tax, which opened up the local tax system, opened up local authorities' theoretical possibilities to involve new tax items. The Curia's practice did not support the fears in this regard; it appears that the municipalities were moderate in relation to the municipal tax. Some extreme cases have been brought to the Curia where it has already been covered, so other tax items affected by the tax have been affected. For example, in the case of an urban municipality, we have found a violation of the law where newly created apartments were taxed by municipal tax; this is not possible, since the housing is the subject of the construction tax. An interesting new development is the scope of decisions clarifying the boundaries of public and private law institutions. In one case, there was a need to define and compare a different legal institution for a road-building interest and a road-building contribution, and in another case, the Curia actually opened the way for the use of settlement settlement contracts as specific civil instruments where the conclusion of these contracts is based on mutual and voluntary agreements. The practice of Community co-existence has continued in previous years. In this connection, he reiterated the Curia's earlier practice of banning the presence of homeless people, for example, where it is really necessary to protect them. In some cases, regulatory technical problems have come before the Curia. Typically, there have been several cases where protection distances related to animal farming have been regulated, not in the local construction regulations, but in other regulations. At the same time, the Curia pointed out that the constitutional principle of proportionality should always be taken into account in the exercise of the regulatory powers of the municipalities, and that we recognised the possibility for the body of representatives to delegate its powers to the mayor in certain cases. So both in order to create a legal unit and in relation to the control of local government standards, the Curia continued its forward-looking practice in previous years and sought to assist lower-level courts in their professional work. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2018-12-13-2	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a decision. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2018-12-13-3	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear President of the Curia, Allow me to welcome Dr. Péter Darák, President of the Curia and his colleagues to our plenary session with special respect; the President of the Curia, who has been an heir to our rule of law as an heir to established professional and moral standards over the centuries. Ladies and Gentlemen, The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 117. Pursuant to § (1) (b) -e), the President of the Curia submitted to the National Assembly the activities of the Curia in 2017 in the field of legal unity and local government standard control B/716. , which was discussed as a committee designated at the meeting of the Committee on Justice of the Parliament on 20 November 2018. The Parliament has adopted the new Codes of Criminal Procedure and New Civil Procedure in the last two years, and it is now under way, as you know, the establishment of an independent administrative court system. All these new laws have a fundamentally positive impact on the functioning of the courts. Ladies and Gentlemen, The information and digital revolution is moving faster and faster, and the achievements of which must be responded by everyone, including the judiciary. The Committee concluded in the debate that the professional objectives of the Curia for 2017 were fully achieved, in particular by developing the practice of the admission procedure and by preparing for the application of the new codes of procedure. [[9.20]] The Committee also considered it important to review existing decisions and to establish new decisions in order to ensure a high level of judgment. Our Commission welcomed the work carried out in Curia to identify the problems of law enforcement in the register of civil society organisations and the problems of interpretation of the foreign exchange loan contracts, as well as the resolution on the case-law and judgment certainty, which we would like to thank the President and colleagues of the Curia. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Curia also has an important role to play in informing and understanding the case-law. In addition to domestic judicial practice, this activity also covers matters relating to European Union law and the European Convention on Human Rights. A meaningful summary of decisions is of paramount importance in informing citizens, which is achieved by the fact that the President of the Curia Council is obliged to draw up a summary of the judgments in matters of major importance even on the day of the decision, which will be published on the mansion's website within a short time. A brief summary of the most important decisions is also prepared in English. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 20 November 2018, B/716 B/716 entitled "The President of the Curia's activities in 2017 in the field of legal unity and local government standard control." His report was adopted unanimously by 11 votes in favour. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. H/3607 submitted pursuant to § 2 (2) The President of the Curia recommends to this House a report on its proposal for a resolution. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Mariann Water East indicated that she would like to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The President of the Curia, as head of the main judicial organization of our country, has a statutory obligation to report to Parliament every year on the activities and operation of the Curia during the relevant year. The Committee on Justice of the Parliament heard the report by President Péter Darák on the activities of the Curia in 2017, which he discussed and evaluated. I would now like to present the evaluation of the report to my fellow Members. New codes of procedure have recently entered into force. The Curia had a fundamental duty to participate in the development of a single enforcement practice adapted to them. The Curia's legal unit councils issued in 2017 a total of four decisions of law units, which provided guidance on which procedural acts should be applied to the courts in the application of the new civil or criminal law. These legal unit decisions also show what the new rules apply in relation to the proceedings under the old laws. In order to ensure uniform and high-quality case-law and to explore the potential of new legal unit instruments, eight case-law groups were set up in 2017. The subjects examined included the practice of appeals in connection with electoral and referendum procedures, litigation in relation to the issue of data of general interest, and certain additional criminal and civil litigation procedures. In line with the traditions of previous years, the analytical groups were supported by persons recognised in external fields. The Curia's legal unit councils and colleges, with their decisions and opinions, have made a major contribution to preparing for the application of the new civil order and administrative order. Mr President stressed the outstanding importance of strengthening the admission procedure in civil and administrative matters as a transparent, uniform procedure for citizens in the practice of the Curia. The Constitutional Court's admission practice was called upon to do so. Dear House, The problem of the enforcement of civil society organisations' registration has continued over the past year. As a result of the work of the initiative launched in 2015 and the consultation panel set up in 2015, the number of appeals has become more uniform in the field of registration, and the number of appeals has also decreased. In recent years, the internship program of the Curia has continued successfully, during which the instructional judges of the Curia have helped to develop the professional knowledge of doctoral students assigned to the various judging councils. Currently, 18 senior advisors assist the work of the judges in Curia, these chief advisors gain insight into the inner operation of the Curia and face daily interpretation problems. Using this option, they will be able to provide effective assistance to judges in their judicial activities through their extensive expertise. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2017, the President of the Curia convened the full meeting of the Supreme Court on three occasions. The full meeting is a very important internal professional forum, as the heads of the case-law analysis groups and colleges, as well as the Presidents of the Chambers, can report on the activities of the bodies they lead. Moreover, the President of the Constitutional Court has personally visited this forum to explain the reception practice of the Constitutional Court, thereby helping the Curia to transform its own admission procedures into a solid unity. I note that the Curia's Civic College and its College of Public Administration and Labour have adopted principles of procedure, which have contributed to the effective development of the Curia's review practice by the new Pp. And the new KP. - if you have any further questions on the use of this product. It is also worth noting that the Curia's Criminal College has issued a new law unit decision in accordance with the relevant Constitutional Court decision on the precise nature of the statutory facts of sexual violence against a minor victim. In its opinion, the Curia's administrative and labour college also clarified the issues raised in labour litigation for violations of equal treatment and the burden of proof in such cases. In order to standardise case-law, the college issued an opinion to clarify the issues raised by labour lawsuits brought about by abuse of law, in which they promote the enforcement of the interests of workers. Dear Parliament, The two basic tasks of the Curia, as laid down in the Fundamental Law, are to ensure the unity of rights and to exercise the control of the local authorities With the help of the case-law analysis groups, the performance of these two tasks of constitutional importance has become increasingly effective over the last year. I believe that the plans for and implemented by the Curia in 2017 will provide excellent support for the work of the courts in the case-law on matters to be dealt with under the new codes of procedure. On the basis of the report, it can be stated that the Curia is sufficiently responsible for its tasks under the Fundamental Law. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the proposed decision. I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-13-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Dart! Deputy President István Kónya! Welcome back. The Curia's report every year, I must say, is the most professional presentation. That is correct, but I would prefer to have such a professional debate in the case of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the OBH. Of course, I am only bringing this up here, not as if it were your responsibility, but rather a form of opposition request or perhaps a word called in the wilderness in order to discuss real social problems in the House in a professional way. [[9.30]] However, I have to say that the practice that this House is carrying on is that we are discussing these reports practically more and more towards the end of the year; indeed, we are now on the last sitting, and if János Áder had not returned one of the laws and we should not have voted next Friday, when, I think, these reports could be adopted, it would actually mean that in 2019 the House could decide on the OBH, the Curia and the Chief Prosecutor. I find this in itself scandalous, especially when these reports are completed by summer. The date of the signing of the Curia's report is 12 July, but I assume that it was practically completed even earlier, so there would have been no reason to start with this in September or to bring the reports to Parliament. Otherwise, we would be much closer to the current period. Imagine that if a case or case is mentioned at the beginning of 2017, and we are talking about the 2017 report, then this means that Parliament can give an opinion over nearly two years. This is so far removed from the subject of the matter, it is so far away in time, which is actually the essence of the report and its discussion in the Parliament. We also see that, unfortunately, as this happens year after year, we tell this problem here in Parliament and in committee meetings year after year, but we have managed to achieve exactly that much that the House will discuss later. In fact, this year, as I said, the vote couldn't have actually taken place if it hadn't been for the return of a law. Well, what we need to see is that it is conscious; it is conscious that it is not possible to talk about the most recent problems. I would point out that even here, it is not the Curia's practice that makes this most of it happen, but the activities of the Attorney General and the President of the OBH. Although I would add that there are very important issues, and there have been this year, for example, decisions on the Curia's foreign exchange loan, and I will address this for a few sentences and launch procedures. Not to mention that, in my opinion, there has been a consistent wrong case law, I would also say that constitutionally violating case law in the Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee and of the House, since opposition factions are able to comment at committee meetings within a very short time frame, in eight minutes. Otherwise, in all countries, in all democracies, it is the committee meeting where the most lively and truly meaningful debate can be held, or the function of the reporter and the report can mostly appear, where the main legal dignitaries may be able to respond to the work they have done in several circles, that would be the real field. Compared to this, there's a significant time limit, which, by the way, has no real reason. You can see that I do not have a better example, let's say, in the United States, hearings are often held for 7-8 hours if there are questions that Members or senators are so interested in and not given an appropriate answer. In that case, the public-law manager, official, any court or prosecutor, or the head of a company in other matters, will be heard. This is a bad practice, by the way. The other half, that there is not only a time limit, has a speaking time limit introduced as so-called practice, but is the unlawful interpretation of the report, which is that only questions and opinions can be asked from the previous year. If you look at the Fundamental Law, it is quite clear that there is no such condition. The Fundamental Law only says, or expects, that once a year, since we are talking about the President of the OBH, the President of the Curia and the Attorney General, there are other officials, but now let's talk about them in a package, otherwise this anomaly has appeared, so they report to the commission or Parliament once a year. This means that they are obviously preparing their accounts, but this does not mean that questions could not be asked in the commission and Parliament for any period of time, given that the Fundamental Law, as I said, does not say that this is happening for the previous year, but that it is only determined how often this report takes place. After this introduction, which I consider to be important and crucial for the functioning of our Fundamental Law, democracy, I would like to turn to the substantive parts of the report and to the relevant parts of the report, since it has already been said that administrative courts have been set up, and it has also been said that this is a wonderful and forward-looking measure, a number of questions have been raised to me, and I have also said this here, before the Parliament. If you look at the Curia's report, which I think is professional... of course, you can always find points in which lawyers disagree 100 percent, but it is drawn that the Curia is doing its job with the right professionalism. If, by the way, there were points that we discussed so many times, such as foreign exchange credit, it was entirely felt that there was political influence, it was such political pressure that it was able to distort the activities of the Curia, even legally. I've always said that 100 percent of the mansion wouldn't be fair to claim in this form. But when the judges of the Curia, the leadership of the Curia, can work professionally, they can put outstanding professional work on the table. The same is true of administrative matters or of public data provision, public data decisions. However, if that is the case, there is no technical reason for setting up an administrative court that is necessary because there are anomalies in the current system, or professionally, or on the basis of any other aspect, the courts would not function well. Of course, there may be a political reason why the courts may operate too independently from the point of view of the ruling parties. And if you can believe the news, it will soon come to light who the new Supreme Administrative Court is going to be chaired by, and it is called Patyi Andras. Well, if we look at his activity, but if they're going to change his name, it's obviously possible to look at the extent to which the concern for independent courts is real. So, in return, if András Patyi or a man who left behind a similar professional past is placed at the head of the administrative supreme court, then it is apparent that the government's sole intention is to grind the administrative court, to reduce the independence of the court. I would not agree to the detailed regulation system that I have said here in this debate in relation to administrative courts. If we can talk here among lawyers, everyone knows and anyone who has read this proposal can see that a regime that is much more governed by the government is appearing. I would add that I also quoted the many references to the 19th century. Behind the then establishment of the 20th century administrative court system, read the books of the lawyers, whether in the period or later, the books of the period concerned, it was quite clear that they were not willing to make the administrative courts completely independent at that time for political reasons. That is why a system has been developed that we now believe to be modern, as well as that of the government, and that Minister Trócsányi can present as modern. Well, that's 19. It wasn't modern in the first century. If, in the long term, one is thinking of legal judgment or legal judgment by history, then I am sure that with this proposal, no one who added his name will go into the history of the law as the creator of a real modern system, but as the author of a part of the court system under the government. [[9.40]] However, to highlight a few points, although I believe that the administrative decisions or the work carried out in the Curia in the report of 17 support the fact that the Curia is able to carry out its task and has done a good job in the administrative field, but I would like to highlight some points that are particularly worthy to be mentioned here in front of the House. Mr President has also mentioned the opinion of the Civic College on the abolition of common property. I consider this to be a forward-looking one, too, since it is an old problem, that they are very heavy, very difficult lawsuits to eliminate common property. They are taking a very long time; the courts are in fact very difficult to make a decision; where appropriate, a decision must be made with a financial impact in very angry human conditions. In this case, the guidelines that the Curia has made are indeed forward-looking and, perhaps, for the courts, also provide an easier decision and access to a faster, easier decision for law-seeking citizens. I was particularly happy about it, and I wrote it out to myself that there would be a point in not having to sue all the partners who own it. This, too, is an amazing problem in judicial practice on a daily basis, that there was a court that expected hundreds of partners to sue and sue, even though they had virtually nothing to do with that dispute. This legal community within the community, which is included in the report, I liked it legally, and indeed it describes what really reveals the problem of involving only the partners who are actually involved in the matter. This saves money for litigation parties, saves work for the courts, and results in an efficient and faster decision, so we very much hope that this will actually appear as quickly as possible in the practice of the courts. Then, too, the rules of kinship are an area that has been caught in the crossfire of many, debate or incomprehension by society. I think it is important that this order also appears here, on the one hand, as to how, in what form this should take precedence, and, on the other hand, that, in the case of parenting, it has been possible to resolve the misunderstandings in society, which have also been introduced into the Fundamental Law. Then, how such a legal question can get to society: I trust that through law enforcement and lawyers, to whom these people first appear, or even through understandable articles, these decisions can be reached. It is stated here that parenting does not apply to the civil code and the relevant relevant sections, and is not a subjective right in all situations, in a way that is clearly attributable to or derived from the Fundamental Law. Then there is also a real problem with the question of the legal capacity of the condominium. Here I appeal to the Secretary of State that, in the capacity of the House of Commons in court, the government may, obviously, now only next year, if this has not started, have to start some kind of professional work, because indeed, the call of the Curia is justified, and in the case of condominiums, legal capacity in court, and otherwise, although this is not included in the report, but legal protection is an important aspect for the minority owners of condominiums. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that in many cases the owners of the condominium ask for nothing but access to all documents and that they can exercise the control function in a way that gives them access to information, regardless of the supervisory board. This is not exhaustive today, so I would ask that, while we are talking about this, the government may consider this. Then there are cases of sale with the maintenance of beneficial property rights. Again, I have to say that when we read it, it seems like a trivial question, but it doesn't seem to have been about the different land office decisions, or, I suppose, even in court decisions following the procedure of the land offices. I would also like to draw attention to this, and therefore I am particularly pleased that the Curia has paid attention to this, as well as to the various real estate registration procedures, because in most cases, and lawyers who practice this have said that if, let's say, the administration of the real estate register carries out poor case-law, let's say, it asks for a deficiency in a case that the petitioner would easily win by appeal, in many cases it will not do, because it will drag the post away. You're gonna tell me I'm gonna do it. The lawyer also says that, well, we will make that amendment, even if it would not have to be done on the basis of Hungarian legislation, so that the case will be closed more quickly. And therefore, there can be such bad practices that, obviously, in the case of administrators, because I was taught by my teachers at law school that, unfortunately, the law is often spread as far as the administrator's knowledge of the law is concerned, and often we are talking about non-legal administrators in the public sector, in this case it is very important to monitor these procedures, and not just to build on the fact that either a lawyer or a injured party is going to file lawsuits. In this case, they won't file lawsuits, they'll rather make that amendment, and then they'll be out of business in two weeks, but the practice is going to get bad for the authorities. Then the municipality's powers of regulation were discussed with regard to the road construction contribution. This is indeed an important question. It may not seem like it at first, but if we extend this to the point that, in many cases, I mentioned it in connection with the various spatial plannings, in common property, and this, say, in the closed garden zones, is a large number of partners, but it also affects the fact that if such a situation is to be settled by residents or by the municipality, it can only be carried out by expropriation, which the municipality does not have money for, and therefore expects the owners to conclude an agreement, in which there will always be one or two renitable owners, who have a good state of fifty years, and who do not want to have more property. Well, in this case, we need a legal solution so that these areas can develop, and I am thinking mainly of the closed gardens around Budapest. This can only be a request to the secretary of state that the government might wonder whether these areas, where local governments are practically unable to expropriate, because they have no money, we are thinking of building roads and public works, but in the case of fellow owners, we cannot expect a 100% agreement or a 100% consensus on how to do so legally... Here, for example, you have to think, or I would go in such a direction that if I could give you a suggestion that, say, in the event that an expropriation takes place, but it is demonstrably worth a multiple of the property, you might be able to calculate this increase in the amount to be paid for the expropriation, even if I dare say so, that if these improvements are proven to be made by public money, the value of the property of the property owners there will be increased to a multiple. In the case of such a regulation, a large number of areas could be involved either in development or in construction, which I think would be forward-looking for the city, for cities or even for rural settlements. Then I would like to point out one more thing, which is also forward-looking in a policy decision. In connection with the violence in the relationship, it has been stated that there are two counts of regularity. [[9.50]] This is an important topic, and the relationship violence in itself may have appeared too much politicized, but at least the result of this has been that the relationship violence has been introduced into the Btk. as a new reality, and as the Curia is trying to clarify the facts of these facts, I think that it is in the right direction, and that it does not have to be expected, where appropriate, to do so 50 times. In my view, this decision in principle can also facilitate the work of the courts and could put law-seeking citizens in that position, in particular citizens seeking redress for their grievances, because we know very well that proof in these cases is extremely difficult. In the end, I would like to mention what has also been an important and recurring issue in recent years, which is just foreign exchange credit. This has been put back on the agenda because the Court of Justice of the European Union has taken a number of decisions that may have an impact on Hungarian court case law, and even if the news can be believed, and there are several such proceedings, it can be heard that there may be several such decisions. Here, on October 20, the Curia did not feel that it had significant work to do here, too, I can obviously be informed of the news, so we are obviously not in possession of all the movement and background work in the Curia, and this alone did not please me, but on December 7th news that there could be a comprehensive investigation into this next year, the Curia's consultative body in foreign exchange credit will look at what could be done in relation to the decisions already taken by the EU courts and future decisions. We must welcome this, although the news of 7 December appeared in a way that fits into the decision or opinion of 20 October, I therefore interpret and allow this to be done, that the decision of 7 December, which was given a press release, is a forward-looking and full of expectations, while that is not what I saw of 20 October, so I definitely appreciate that the timing has come to this end. I would like to point out, however, that I would also like to draw the President's attention to the fact that he should personally try to pay attention to the functioning of this consultative body on a daily basis here. Allow us to have some skeptical attitude towards György Wellmann, which has been mentioned so many times before, but of course we would be very pleased if the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union would encourage Mr Wellmann to be disappointed in the decisions and work that will take place in the future, and we hope that it will happen. So I have to say that, since everyone has a second chance to put it this way, I am very confident that the criticisms that have been made here in connection with his activities or the professional activity in the foreign exchange credit case may be considered, and that in the future we will see decisions that really bring forward a little more professional solution to these foreign currency credit issues, in which, let us say, we will be able to say it in the same way or in the same positive way as in those cases that I mentioned here, or always have not felt problematic from my opposition side, and indeed I was very pleased to be able to praise the practice of the Curia. Together with these, I will propose the report to our group for support, Mr President's report, with the expectation that, although we will decide on the report of 17 December, the news of the establishment of the consultative body on 7 December will set out a positive direction for which I believe that we can give support in this way, and we will see the development of law or even the self-correction of the Curia in matters for which this was necessary. We therefore look forward to the different results of next year in the case, and, of course, also the 18th report, which we hope will not be discussed by the Parliament at the end of next year. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-13-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Congressman Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group, has indicated that he will refrain from speaking. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward would be the first to speak. Mrs Anett Bősz indicated her intention to speak, but she is not in the room, so I am not in a position to give her the opportunity. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I wonder if anyone would like to take this opportunity, if anyone would like to speak in the further debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, so the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr President if he wishes to respond to what has been said, to the speeches by the lead speaker. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to President Peter Darák. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2018-12-13-9	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you, Mr Imre Vejkey, for your opinion which is in line with my opinion and with the opinion of the Curia Board, that the new Codes of Procedure really help the courts significantly and allow for more modern, faster and more thorough judgment. Thank you very much for emphasising our efforts to make it easier for citizens to understand the language of the law which otherwise seeks accuracy and is therefore difficult to understand with the help of judgment summaries. I would also like to thank you for your opinion that in 2017 the consultative bodies that regularly met at the Curia were indeed able to facilitate the proper professional management of CSOs and foreign exchange lending. I would also like to point out from the comments of the governing parties that the analytical, case-law-oriented activities of the Curia on civil society organisations have proved to be very useful. This is important for us, as one of the recurring critical points of recent years has been the bureaucratic nature of the registration and registration procedures which are very difficult to meet for Hungarian civil society. Indeed, we put a great emphasis on ensuring transparency in admission procedures in 2017. I trust that this year's practice of the Curia will meet these original objectives. I also thank you for the summary opinion that the Curia was able to fulfil its basic tasks in 2017. On what Mr Staudt Gábor has said, first of all, I would like to thank you for the in-depth analysis of the professional content of the Curia's annual report, and thank you for the highlights on the elimination of common property, the order of kinship, the ambiguous new rule, the legal capacity of condominiums, the retention of the right to benefit, the conceptual issues of settlement planning in all Hungarian settlements, which he expressed as a positive opinion. [[10.00]] I would like to point out that there has been no significant change in the attitude of the Curia between 20 October and 7 December. We are faced with the phenomenon we have often encountered in recent years; the press sometimes highlights such aspects, sometimes emphasizing such aspects in connection with a press conference in Curia or a communication in Curia. The Curia's fundamental attitude to foreign exchange matters is to keep track of developments, to analyse them regularly and thoroughly, and we always try to give an early opinion on these cases, which is directed at judges, without any obligation to express an opinion that will facilitate the successful conclusion of these lawsuits. At the moment, which was basically the basis of the news of 7 December, the Curia has put on the agenda that it will analyse the judicial practice in relation to the content of the risk-finding statements within the framework of the Consultation Panel and would like to clarify the conditions under which the nullity of the foreign exchange credit contract may occur, namely the validity. György Wellmann has played a prominent role in this activity for many years and makes an outstanding contribution to the work of the head of the college, whose activities the management of the Curia fully agrees with. I thank the Member for his summary statement that, unlike in previous years, he has proposed to the Group for support this year's report on the Curia. Thank you all for your comments and thank you for your valuable support.
u2018-12-13-10	Dear Parliament, I thank Mr President for his answers and wish you and your colleagues success and blessed holidays in his further work. Dear Parliament, I'll ask President Imre Vejkey if he wants to answer. Yes, I give the floor to Mr. Imre Vejkey, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2018-12-13-11	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of our opposition colleagues, on behalf of Jobbik, our fellow Member Gábor Staudt spoke in the debate and expressed opinions, a position that I disagree with in this matter in general and so in general. It is therefore important that I declare that it is not true that the Judicial Committee would carry out any constitutional infringement case-law. Ladies and Gentlemen, You should know that the Judicial Committee will act at the very beginning of its meeting, after establishing its quorum, and then at the very first point it will deal with, to set the agenda. Setting the agenda, which then has binding force. In the present case, the Judicial Committee has set its agenda, which was a report by the President of the Curia in 2017. My fellow Member objected to the fact that there was no discussion at the committee's meeting on matters for 2018. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that was not the case, because the report by the President of the Curia was about the activity of 2017 and the agenda was adopted as such, so it would have been strictly against the law. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: This is against the law.]] If we talk about other things. However, I am pleased that Jobbik also supports the report by the President of the Curia. The other issue that my fellow Member was pushing was the fact that he could only react in eight minutes, and the individual factions could react. Ladies and Gentlemen, At this meeting of the Judicial Committee, he decided on a order of business. The order of business was twofold: on the one hand, it defined that the debate on the 2017 report of the President of the Curia would be conducted with two rounds: first, questions could be asked by the President of the Curia, to which he would reply, and second, comments could be made. And we have actually decided that the factions on the Judicial Committee can manage them within an 8-8-minute time frame. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Now, that's against the law!]] This was voted by the Judicial Committee, and the Judicial Committee acted in accordance with the order of order voted on. I note that our fellow Member Gábor Staudt spoke there, if I remember correctly about the report of the President of the Curia, he measured the time, but he did not exhaust these 8 minutes, so I do not understand why he says that the time was not enough. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I wasn't there, Imre! I couldn't be there!]] Finally, on the third part, my opposition fellow Member objected to the establishment of an administrative court. He said that there were political reasons for this. Ladies and Gentlemen, That's not true. There were no political reasons, specifically legal, professional reasons. If we look only at the neighbouring countries who have recently introduced an administrative court, then if we look at our western neighbour Austria, we can see that the administrative court was introduced three years ago. And the truth is that we have basically introduced the principles contained in it in Hungary. So the excuses that have strangely come up here do not stand up to them, since the European Union test, the Austrian Constitutional Court test, has been passed by the Austrian administrative court law and its introduction. Moreover, it is important for you to know, ladies and gentlemen, that the administrative court is not a new legal institution in Hungary. It was an old, well-functioning court, only in 1949, after the Soviet-style constitution imposed on us in the shadow of Soviet bayonets, it was simply abolished. It was erased, and it was time to bring this back. On this basis, I propose to the Honourable Parliament that the President of the Curia's report for 2017 be supported, as well as the proposal for a resolution which the Judicial Committee has put forward in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-12	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. I would like to thank Mr President and his colleagues once again for their participation. Dear Parliament, A series will be held in 2017 by the President of the National Court of Justice and the joint general debate on the proposal for a resolution on its adoption. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay my respects to Mrs. Tünde Hando, President of the National Court of Justice. Report submitted by the President of the National Court Office B/1483. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/3896. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mrs Tünde Hando, President of the National Court Office, author of the report, who wishes to present his report on the pulpit. Madam President, please. [[10.10]]
u2018-12-13-13	Mr. Vice President, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For the sixth time since my election, I will report on the annual activities of the court organisation before the Parliament's plenary session. When the legislator rebuttoned the vest on the court organization in 2011, quoting the words of Ferenc Deák, we all hoped that the change would bring success. Nearly seven years later, it can be said that the court organization has entered into a golden age that has not been seen since the time of the settlement. Infrastructural developments have taken place throughout the country from additional financial resources due to government decisions, parliamentary decisions, to which Article XIX of the Treaty provides that: There hasn't been an example since the end of the century. The performance of the courts has also improved significantly over the last few years, and we are not the only ones who claim it, but the European Commission's Justice Scoreboard confirms the results. The origin of the Justice Scoreboard is known to everyone. Hungary was in the middle of an investigation when it was decided in the Commission that all Member States would try to rank or measure on the same criteria, to examine how justice is performed in the various competitions. I say that they are competitions, because justice is also a determining factor in the competitiveness of countries. The Hungarian courts have opposed prejudices about us, and in the objective, objective categories, Hungarian courts are at the forefront of Europe. Administrative matters are the fastest judged in Hungary at all levels of case-law; we are the first in the ranking here. The second is the lowest backlog in the same case in Hungary. The backlog of civilist lawsuits is the fourth smallest, and these lawsuits are judged by the Hungarian courts as quickly as possible. Not only are we at the forefront of the case data, but we are the first to provide electronic information on lawsuits. I can see for myself that even the people in this room have these clever instruments in their hands. Indeed, it is now possible for clients and lawyers to monitor the development of their lawsuits on these devices. And Hungary is leading the ranking in court mediation. This, compared to the fact that we established this system in 2012, and that it has been operating elsewhere for decades, is an unprecedented achievement. The EU Commission, which is so critical to Hungary, is therefore forced to recognise the performance of the Hungarian courts. But domestic data, which are important to citizens, also show that there has been spectacular progress on the big numbers. 90 percent of the lawsuits will be completed within a year. Since 2012, the number of lawsuits lasting more than two years has decreased by almost 40 percent. If this performance is produced in any production plant, it could be a world sensation. It is natural for us that this has happened, that we have achieved this result. 90 percent of the judgments in civil matters and 80 percent of the judgments in criminal matters in the district courts rise to legal force at first instance. This shows the merits of the judgment, the extent to which the clients accept the decisions taken in their case. The 200-page report, which can be read on our website, is well-known to everyone, so I would not even detail the details of it, but I would highlight only a few areas in which I believe that the court organisation... because it is primarily the task of the National Court of Justice to manage this huge organization, to ensure its operation. Well, in these areas, I would like to give an account of our activities on the new codes of procedure, our activities on building investment and the results of the digital court. The new Codes of Procedure, which came into force this year and in January, had to be resolved throughout 2017, which is why we called 2017 the year of preparation. From the new Pp. my fellow judges made 1800 pages of teaching material, videos and podcasts about the training. Fifteen judges wrote these, five judges in Curia have reviewed this curriculum, and it's in public. The course paper on the rules of procedure has also been completed in the same way. In the same form, the curriculum relating to the Code of Criminal Procedure, written by twenty-nine judges, has been completed; 1435 pages, not simply an explanation of the legislative text, but there are legal references, useful forms, administrative aids in addition to these teaching materials, and just because of the smart tools, any judge can reach them from anywhere at any time if he has any questions about the interpretation of the new rules in the middle of a hearing, the case law guidelines established by the Curia. He did a good exam. I think it's the courthouse. Since 2012, we have been continuously developing our training system. The number of central training courses has increased five times in the last seven years: from 100 to 500, which we hold in one of our institutions in Budapest, and at the same time the number of participants in central training has increased six times. In 2011, we were able to account for 4 thousand participants, in 2017 25 have participated in these trainings. I think that the effort that my fellow judges, court secretaries and authors have made to understand and learn new codes in time and with the help of the Curia was exemplary. I also hope that we will be able to give good feedback to the legislator on the way forward. The other very important area is the state of the buildings. We have 188 buildings to take care of, and it doesn't make any difference to you, who have the opportunity to do their job in such a worthy place within such beautiful walls, how serious, how important it is that judges take part in court proceedings under conditions worthy of their office, and that clients under conditions worthy of their cause. That is why we have established a system for allocating the financial resources available to us, which is unprecedented throughout the administration of the state, because, on the basis of very serious planning, has been allocated for several years in advance and in a tendering system. It is important to know that each court, judge board is a separate legal entity, has its own management, but this management must be responsible for farming. This includes, however far from judicial activity, our experience here is that we can renew a building of thousands of square meters well, usefully and in line with historical loyalty. We named these programs and our application from Gyula Wagner and Ferenc Jablonszky's great court building builders in the Carpathian Basin. In the framework of the Jablonszky Ferenc competition, conference rooms were renovated, work environment improved in Nagykanizsa, Mátészalkán, Tatabánya, in fact at least a hundred courts were involved in these renovations. [[10.20]] Then what was an outstanding renovation was the Egri Tribunal. A hundred-year-old building was successfully completed by XXI. To be adapted according to the requirements of the century. This is a building, by the way, and therefore it is important to care for the historical past, where Gárdonyi Géza started his writing as a forensic correspondent. Well, this building, in which we set up the decorative stairwell, the hall of honor, was handed over to the public by making the first customer center available to the public. We would also like to help strengthen customer relations. We have begun a similar great task with regard to the Szeged Tribunal and District Court. Here we conducted the planning and licensing procedures in 2017. In 2017, we handed over the District Court of Szigetszentmiklós. At the Jászberény District Court there were huge renovations, and there have been major investments in several other court buildings, the Tapolca District Court, the Dunakes District Court, the District Court of Kiskőrös, and I would like to mention them. What is really important in terms of competitiveness, however, and this is what causes it, I fear, is the biggest difficulty in the court organisation, but also for the customers who come to us, the so-called digital court, because we all need to learn how to operate the court online. Even though the backlog of the case is reduced in the case of judges, it is not certain that they will sense this ease, because just because of electronic submissions, if an invitation is issued to lawyers or prosecutors, the answer they may have had to wait a month before may now be turned around within an hour. It's like that smartphone always chirps in the judge's pocket. Their work must be organised differently in such a working environment. They must be able to organize their work differently so that they do not sense that judging independent of space and time means that they must serve 24 hours a day. What did the digital court bring with regard to administrative aid applications? We allowed customers to receive text and e-mail messages about their important submissions a few years ago; so-called perseverance calculators are available. This is particularly important in cases where a client can choose from a number of courts, and with this calculator you can calculate, where appropriate, a family law case, a contractual dispute, where it is worth starting, and where you can expect to see that the lawsuit that he has initiated will be concluded sooner. As far as the courts or judges are concerned, 800 speech recognition software can now be used by our fellow judges. This means that, as I am saying now, the speech given at this rate can be translated into writing by software, and when everyone is concerned about judgments, protocols, their accuracy, the speed of their preparation, would be a huge achievement if we could replace notary assistance, scribe's help, and rather, as part of a training project, we could translate most of the working time of those working with us to help judges in substance. We have also developed and developed our project "Digital Court" in 2017. What's this gonna bring? What have we prepared in light of this? We'll create the e-file in its entirety. This means that all lawyers and clients will be able to access all the documents of the lawsuit by electronic means, in which they will be able to search as if they are looking only on various web pages, with titles, sentences, names, dates, numbers, even thousands of pages of lawsuits that make it easier for clients and judges alike. In this context, we will develop a new decision-seeking interface. It is very important in the course of litigation to be predictable so that the parties can prepare themselves for what they can expect from the court. If we set up a good system, clients and lawyers can better prepare for the trial and help judges, as decisions serving as a legal unit will be easier for them to access. Our next big project, and it was able to start in September 2018, but 2017 was about the preparation of this project, our so-called ViaVideo project, where we first installed 77 courtrooms with video cameras. Our goal was to facilitate the appearance of witnesses, accused, plaintiffs, defendants. Our hopes are further confirmed by today's data, as these tools have already been used in hundreds of trials, not only within Hungary, but also between prison institutions and courts, the relationship between court and court, and even between a foreign court and a Hungarian court. Let me also give you some of the figures in this area, since in 2012 only online contacts were operated in company procedures. Then, in bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings, electronic contacts became optional from 2015 onwards, in civilist trials from 2013 onwards, mandatory from 2016, 490 thousand electronic submissions were sent to the courts only in 2017. If I can go back to the beginning, in 2013 306 applications were filed electronically, and in 2017 490 thousand applications were received. I think and hope that the 2017 report prepared by the National Court Office gives an overview of not only the work of the OBH, but also the work of the entire court organisation. I hope that those citizens who turn to us, to the court in order to bring them justice there, will increasingly feel that this court organisation is starting to take place in the 21st century. To a century, he is able to speak to them differently, in a different voice, in a more understandable way, and, stepping out of the ivory tower, he is also able to think that judgment, the court, and justice are not an act of self-interest, but we are here to serve those who turn to us with righteous judgments and to serve them with comfort. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-12-13-14	Thank you very much for the presentation by Madam President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, President of the Judicial Committee, author of the motion for a resolution, who wishes to give his report on the pulpit. Here you go, Mr. President. [[10.30]]
u2018-12-13-15	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, Allow me to welcome Dr. Hando Tünde here at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament as the President of the National Court of Justice. At its meeting on 4 December 2018, the Judicial Committee discussed the report on the activities of the National Court of Justice in 2017 and supported its adoption by 7 yes, 2 non-voting votes. The report sets out in detail the efforts made to establish the appropriate personal and material conditions of the court organisation, which is the fruit of the work of the years after the establishment of the OBH in 2012. During the hearing of the Justice Committee, President Tünde Hando highlighted three topics in the written report: preparing for the application of the new codes of procedure in conjunction with the Mansion, the development of court buildings and the powers of digital courts. Madam President, I congratulate you on the results that have been achieved, which are also outstanding at European level. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee considered it particularly important to implement timely and high-quality judgment at all Court levels, to ensure transparency, predictability and control of the case-law and administrative work. The members of the committee asked the president questions about the speed of the judgment on the daily lives of citizens, the length of the lawsuits, the results of the EU's checks on justice, the handling of citizens' complaints and the number of judges. Madam President has also given appropriate answers to these questions. As regards the new codes, Madam President called 2017 the year of preparation and said that a number of training courses covering the entire judiciary were carried out, so that courts and judges could be properly prepared for the application of the new rules, so that an appropriately prepared judgmental organisation would be available at national level, at all levels, at all levels of the courts. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2017, the development and reconstruction of a number of historic buildings in the seat of the courts took place, so citizens can conduct their judicial affairs in an appropriate environment. It is also a huge achievement, ladies and gentlemen, that in creating a digital court, our country is among the best in Europe, making it not only easier and faster to deal with cases, but also has a significant cost reduction effect. It can be concluded that the achievement of the strategic and professional objectives set out by the President of the OBH is on the right track. Congratulations again. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 4 December 2018, the President of the National Court Office B/1483 on the activities of the National Court Office in 2017. and adopted by the European Parliament. The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. § 2 H/3896. In its proposal for a resolution No B/1483 of the President of the OBH. He recommended his report to the Parliament for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] H/3896. In its proposal for a resolution No B/1483 of the President of the OBH. He recommended his report to the Parliament for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2018-12-13-16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Mariann the Water East has indicated that she wishes to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-12-13-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin my comment with an old Roman saying from Curtius Rufus, famous Roman legal author, Altissima quaeque lumina minimo sono labuntur. The deepest river flows in the quietest way. It is also a slogan for the importance of judicial administration. The Fundamental Law provides that the President of the National Court of Justice shall perform the central tasks of the administration of ordinary courts. The administration of the courts is a set of administrative activities which are not closely related to the performance of the judicial functions of the courts and judges, but provide the courts with the personal and factual conditions of the case. Before 2012, these tasks were performed by the National Council of Justice in Hungary, whose operation received a lot of negative ratings, therefore it was necessary for the fundamental reform of judicial administration. Based on the new model, the President of the National Court Office performs the central administrative tasks, while the professional management of the courts remained the responsibility of the Curia. Central administrative tasks include, in particular, the general central administrative tasks of the courts, the management of the Office or, for example, the creation of a text and the appointment of the Vice-Presidents. The President of the National Court of Justice shall present a proposal for the budget of the courts, and shall determine the necessary number of judges, appoint and acquit the legal leaders, as well as the organisation of the training of judges and other judicial staff. According to the organizational law, the President of the National Court of Justice informs the National Assembly of the general situation of the courts and the administrative activities of the courts, and reports on one occasion among the annual reports to the Parliament's Justice Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, We have in front of us a very detailed, reviewable report by President Tünde Hando, which has already been examined by the Committee on Justice in addition to the President, and has tabled a proposal for its adoption. The report before us gives deep information on the outstanding, high-level and effective work carried out by the President, the staff of the Office and the judges in relation to the tasks previously listed in 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the outcome and professional examination of their lawsuits, it is in the most important interest for citizens to complete their case as soon as possible. I think, but every year statistics also show that the court organisation is achieving better results in this round: 87.5 percent of the lawsuits will be completed within one year of arriving at that level of judgment; by the end of 2017, the number of litigation cases remaining over two years decreased by 37 percent compared to the time the office was established; compared to 2016 the number of pending cases decreased by 8.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, The effectiveness of the Hungarian judicial activity is supported by international surveys in addition to the Hungarian figures. [[10.40]] The European Commission's published finding contains a judicial scoreboard showing the effectiveness, quality and independence of the justice system in the Member States. The Scoreboard examines the justice of the Member States in civil, economic and administrative matters. Hungary is a European leader in the effectiveness of the case-law. Without the need for completeness, I would like to highlight some outstanding performances. According to the Scoreboard, the fourth is the smallest backlog in Hungary, and the second is the fastest judicial review of consumer protection issues, and Hungary is the first to promote mediation procedures. In Hungary, the fourth highest proportion of judges involved in further training is the highest, and the Hungarian courts are among the best in the transition to electronic administration. I feel that these figures speak for themselves, Hungary is one of the best in terms of efficiency; this is proof of the very high quality and careful work that Dr. Tünde Hando, President of the OBH, has been doing since its founding on the front of his organization, committed to the recognition of judicial work and to supporting more effective judicial work. Of course, the optimal allocation and utilisation of human resources is essential to achieving these successes. It is one of the most important incentives when people's performance is rewarded with adequate financial compensation. According to statistics, 97 percent of judicial staff received a salary increase, with an average rate of 30 per cent. There has also been wage development among judges, with an increase of 15.8 percent in the judicial salary base in less than a year and a half. Due to the significant increase in salaries and the development of tangible assets linked to the judicial career, prepared by the President, the court's career became more attractive: while in 2016 559 applicants submitted applications in 2017, 1919 applicants submitted applications for the announced posts of judges. I did not mention the court for nothing, since, on 13 June 2017, on the very forward-looking proposal of the President, the Parliament adopted a bill providing a career model, which outlines a predictable, clear and attractive career for the judges in addition to the settlement of wages, thus reducing the number of candidates and increasing the interest of applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the most important prerequisites for effective and high-level work is that adequate material conditions are also ensured for both judges and law-seeking citizens. In this respect, too, the National Court Office has shown outstanding performance, as many court buildings have been renovated and important developments have also been prepared last year. I would like to highlight the Jablonszky Ferenc application system launched in 2014, which aims to improve the comfort of customers in the courts and the working conditions of workers by using the amounts that can be obtained in the tenders for renewal grants. The tender structure has proven its success: every year important and effective improvements have been made thanks to substantial grants. In 2017, 56 successful tenders were announced for a total of HUF 521 million. If we look back at the period from the establishment of the office, we can see that the development of the factual circumstances of the courts is on a huge scale throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen, As stated in the report, 2017 was a year of preparation, given the need to prepare the judiciary in connection with the entry into force of the new civil order, the new administrative order and the new law on criminal proceedings. In the context of the three codes, the judiciary took part in the opinion of the draft legislation, and after adoption the Office had to carry out IT systems, forms, customer information and other related tasks. The preparation of judges was also at a very high level in Europe, and thanks to e-learning systems, knowledge was acquired much more easily and quickly. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank President Tünde Hando, his staff and all the staff of the Office for providing the legislative tasks with exemplary professionalism, preparedness and efficiency in the year 2017. Of course, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the report and we wish the entire organisation and the President further good work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Let's hear it!]]
u2018-12-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it is unacceptable for me, as a Member of Parliament, that on a day when the President of the Curia, Dr. Péter Darák, when the President of the National Court of Justice, Mrs. Tünde Hando, and I hope that this will change by the time Dr. Péter Polt arrives to us for the debate on his report, Parliament will hear a total of four pro-government Members. These high-ranking officials came to these posts on the initiative of the governing parties and with the vote of the pro-government representatives, and if what I have just heard from my fellow Member from Bajkai is true, that the work that the leaders they have placed in this position are doing is properly honorable and excellent, I would consider it at least the first and most important task for the pro-government representatives to respect, with their presence, the accounts of these very important institutions and the people who are at the head of them. In particular, I dare say this because the garage in Parliament is full, and in the various halls of Parliament you can see a mass of celebrations, there are a lot of pro-government ladies and gentlemen in the building, and I consider that, in addition to the celebrations, perhaps these very important questions, if not with their words, but at least with their presence, they could have been honored. I wish to stress that, of course, I do not want to remove opposition responsibility, although I cannot help it. But of course, I do not like the fact that the leaders of such serious organisations based on the principle of power-sharing are not heard by any more. We got this 208-page material. I just hope, Madam President, that you haven't paid the bookbindings yet, because at the second opening, it's practically on your cards. It was probably thought that the Members of Parliament were not going to do this very much anyway. I'm gonna shoot it, I'm gonna shoot it, I'm gonna shoot it, but it's really falling apart. I do not consider this particularly to be the responsibility of the President, either, but of those who know exactly where the report of an organisation of this quality is being submitted, and who do not respect the parliamentary representatives of Hungary so much, I stress, not the President and not his leadership, but who is involved in the preparation of this, so that at least, if they had not been given little money for it, quality work and could have been taken for several years. About the report, when there was a committee meeting, I said that less would have been more. I maintain this today, especially because, both in 2017 and 2018, we were forced to experience it specifically from the organisation of judges, from certain judges, from judicial communities that are very important to comply with the principles of the rule of law and the law, that there is a great deal of opposition in the organisation, in the community of judges, there have been a lot of outrageous events in the uploading of positions that have been left unappointed after the tenders, there is a lot of opposition when applications are invalidated without serious reasons, and, by the way, not necessarily young ladies and gentlemen who qualify for the positions of leadership have been appointed into management positions. [[10.50]] We, who are interested in public life, whether we are representatives or not, cannot bypass these phenomena, and often we are forced to think that the vast scope of these 208 pages, the vast amount of statistical data and presentation actually seeks to cover up problems that, as much as we would like to avoid having to talk about it, still characterize the organization. It should be remembered that although we were really cold, I was cold for 20-25 years in the court of Gyöngyös, Gödöllő, zirci, Kunszentmiklós, and I could still list smaller courts in the country, whose condition was truly terrible, but let us at least admit that the strange thing about the pace of technological progress would be that these courts were still in the state they were in before. So the fact that buildings have been renovated, courts have moved into a more modern environment, electronics development is at a pace, not in itself because the president of the National Court works well, but because life requires it. The strange thing would be that, everywhere in the country, technological development in public institutions, the environment of the public service or even the main players in economic life would change, improve, improve, and improve, the most important task of the state, the environment of justice, would not have improved. But what I would like to add to this is that they should do it already, so that when they praise the operation of their own organisations and put themselves on a pedestal, the pro-government representatives or the government put a pedestal on how well someone has done their job, we should never forget that the taxpayers give money for this. They're working. If you didn't pay 27 percent VAT and about forty-something taxes, and you didn't voluntarily add up the goods that could create this in a country, then you could be very clever, very creative, you couldn't do your job in that quality. Anyway, I have to say, in the last seven months, I have seen a great deal of the phenomenon that politicians tend to forget that they can do their job at all, or that they can get a position and remuneration because there are an incredibly large number of people who are willing to work. The 100 thousand HUF wage will also give you the tax and contribution that can be made for either the cicoma or the necessary investments. So I'm asking you all very much to never forget that, and sometimes to mention these things. At least I thank the taxpayers for the fact that the President of the National Court of Justice has been able to submit such a report, and such improvements have been made. Most of the reports of the National Court of Justice are basically about the conditions, the conditions, the conditions, the high level of comfort investments naturally related to our lives, but there is significantly less talk about human factors; about the human community, who are often forced to work hard to ensure that the principle that positions of power in democracy are separated, divided, and that judicial power cannot be influenced by anyone. I feel that this account misses what is the human factor of everything. While the statistical data of judges and employees are very rich, when it comes to the fact that, in addition to the development of buildings, devices, all kinds of electronic investments, the factors that provide the basis for them to have not only existential security, comfortable conditions, easily accessible data, but also emotional and professional support are included in their working conditions. You can set up academies, you can do training, the question is whether they are effective if you have to judge in an organization where there are many judges living constantly in existential fear; where the unfavorable way in which the application system is conducted shows the judges that you can work excellently, that you can have final judgments, whether by leaving or not, you can work day and night, whether the leaders appreciate this attitude, or rather the respected one who tries to get along with certain court leaders. When we discussed this issue in committee, I asked Madam President how it could be that there are fewer, often significantly fewer judges in countless courts than there are posts to fill. I've been asking about the lack of interest in the judicial profession. Or if we are talking about a higher court, are the judges not motivated to apply for jobs that can be filled? Madam President said that a very large percentage of judges are women, and that, after they start a family and have children, they fall out of judgment for a certain period of time and their seats cannot be filled, which is why these differences exist. But what I would like to say is that 84 of the 92 places in the Curia are filled, and I find it hard to imagine, given the age of the judges in Curia, that it is definitely due to the absence of a home due to childbirth, that there are at least eight judges in the Curia who are absent on a permanent basis. I hope it's not because they're waiting for someone to reach that opportunity in some way, or that those conditions can be determined as to their identity, so that he can become a judge of the Curia, or they float vacant posts for some other reason, if suddenly someone's existence could be replaced by a place in Curia. The report also pointed out that 87.5 percent of the cases will be completed within a year. That sounds very nice for a layman, but the only word to be highlighted from this is that at the given level. The level is court-martialed, court-martialed, court-martialed, mansion. Which floor are we talking about? For example, if a case started at a district court ends in a year, and if it is appealed, it will end in a year, and it may even be reviewed, and it will not end in one, but in three years. If we look at the statistical data, then we also see that in the number of cases that have been completed, we naturally find those non-court proceedings, those cases which, by nature, have been completed in a few months, which are extremely capable of improving statistics, and may even give people the feeling of how quickly the cases will be concluded in the courts in Hungary, and then, in their own individual case, they see that this is not the case. I like the statistics, but it's always worth looking behind the details and judging the work of an organization. I myself, when speaking in the course of the hearing of the administrative courts, mentioned the European Union survey that Hungarian administrative justice is the best in the Union, on the basis of many, many aspects. And then I asked myself, if there is such a smooth and excellent administrative judiciary within the court organisation, why do we need an administrative court, which was voted yesterday by the pro-government representatives? [[Dr. Csaba Hende: To make it even better!]] I am maintaining this issue now, especially because Madam President also points out in her accounts how well this single court system and its management work, and there are no shortcomings in merit, in the case-solving process, in human resources or in the legal environment, that there should be serious changes here. [[11.00]] I wish to stress that I am not addressing these words to Madam President, but to those Members who supported and encouraged the establishment of administrative justice, and then, yesterday, it was put to the vote in this House. Especially when we see a new judicial system being created that is fully under government supervision, it will be in the hands of the Minister of Justice until the last topic, even the judicial position. [[Csaba Hende: It's not like that.]] We will see, of course, how this will work in practice, but I would like to stress that if the system you have created is really working so wonderfully. Why taxpayers, citizens, had to be burdened with the establishment of a new judicial system that will run in all respects in parallel with normal judicial action. Finally, let my fellow Members, Mr President, say that I would like to thank the staff for the work that they did in 2017 or 18 in the life of the courts. I am also in a daily relationship with a number of officials and in a friendly relationship, and I see the heroic struggle that has taken place in order to carry out additional tasks under the provisions of the mandatory electronic procedure, the new civil order and the new law on criminal proceedings. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Madam President, you would not be able to make such a positive presentation and report if the people who work there had not done much more of a job than we would otherwise expect them to do. So if you'll excuse me, I thank them for all this. Thank you very much for your attention, ladies and gentlemen, for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-13-20	Welcome, fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. There is now room for further speeches by Members if they apply. [[There's no candidate.]] But I do not see a candidate at the moment, so I will conclude the joint general debate and ask Mrs Hando Tünde, President of the National Court Office, if she wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2018-12-13-21	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the words of appreciation on behalf of my fellow judges, the law enforcement staff. Indeed, all that is achieved, which is a success, can only be achieved by them and only by them. At the same time, I would like to thank the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government and the executive authority for the help that we have received, of course, as far as financial assistance is concerned, also through the contribution of taxpayers. I would like to thank you specifically for the fact that through these sources of legislative cooperation we managed to raise the judicial salary by 15 percent by January 2018 and the salary of the judicial staff by 30 percent on average. Indeed, we are now able to offer a career for judicial staff, and we hope that this is something that we have already been promised to the judges, which will provide them with existential security. Indeed, everything is based on man's essence. That's why we do a lot of work with people within the court organisation, which is why we have developed a career model, which is why we have a so-called retention program for three years, and that's why the courts are successfully running for a family-friendly job. That is why we are dealing with the new generation separately, and that is why we have established a well-known coachtréneri network in modern organizations, but not yet known here, so that we can deal with the human soul, because every client wants to find impartial, calm, confident, patient, empathetic judges on the judicial pulpit. As far as judicial appointments are concerned, they often arise. I'm a lawyer myself, and as a judge, I've tried to see what the legal framework is, what the facts are, and I've made my own decision based on them. I will give you figures on how management proposals were developed in 2017. It is important to know that there are nearly 800 management posts in the court organisation, 119 of which are the appointment powers of the President of the OBH. In 2017, 16 management applications were announced, 8 were appointed, 5 were not candidates, so the tender had to be declared ineffective. There was only one case, which can be read in the report, where, using the discretion granted by law, I declared the tender ineffective. As far as court applications are concerned, in 2017, 274 court applications were launched and 259 were successful. In addition, 1900 applications for these posts were received, so there were multiple over-subscriptions for judicial posts, and, as I mentioned, 95 percent of the applications were appointed, or if a judge had already applied for that post, it ended with a transfer. It was 15 and only 4 percent of the number of unsuccessful applications, and 8 of these 15 were not submitted at all. I think that the appointment exercise not only in my case, but also in respect of all the Presidents of the Tribunal, the President of the Court, and even the President of the Curia, complies with the legal provisions. And since there has been one question about authorised posts and why eight judges are missing in the Curia according to statistical data, I would just like to refer to the fact that the Curia is a separate chapter in the court body, and the President of the Curia decides for himself when and for what he will issue judicial applications. Above that, the President of the National Court of Justice does not have any powers of control or supervision. He was here, Mr. President, he could have been asked, but maybe next year he could be asked why these judges are missing from the Mansion. As far as statistics are concerned, we are looking at a district court, a criminal case, a forensic level, and we can really watch these data from a lot of perspectives. It is a European standard for providing data that gives us first, second and third rankings at European level. But it is true that litigation can be seen as a linear way of looking at how long it takes for a procedure to be typically completed. Such data can be found on our websites. However, I must confirm it, today at second instance, so in appeals, the court and judge board will make their decisions within six months. This is an unprecedented result; the only one who is left behind is the Mansion, where it is good to have decisions on civil, administrative and labour matters at close to a year's notice. There, indeed, they have much to improve with regard to the traffic data. Thank you very much for your attention, thank you very much for the serious and thoughtful contribution from Members to the report, and not only to my person, but indeed to the court organisation. Thank you, on behalf of all my colleagues, for the words of appreciation for judges and judicial staff. You can be sure that in this court organization we are about to fulfill our task in accordance with the Fundamental Law, our oath, so that we can provide the strength, the security that is rightfully required of us to those who come to us. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[11.10]]
u2018-12-13-22	Thank you, Mrs Tünde Hando, for your answer. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Justice Committee.
u2018-12-13-23	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, First of all, thank you very much for your exposé, and thank you very much for your response to what was said in the debate in Parliament. I believe that this could confirm us all that the report on OBH's activities in 2017 was recommended for adoption. In fact, it is not only recommended that it be adopted, but, as it turned out from objective facts, it is explicitly recommended that it be adopted, because it has achieved excellent results not only at Hungarian level, but also at European level. There was an opposition speaker in the person of Andrea Varga-Damm, and in her regard, Madam President gave me the answer again for everything, but I would like to make the following statement on the presence that she was pressing at the beginning. If we look around and see what the presence was now in relation to the 2017 OBH report, it is an objective fact that both the Fidesz faction and the KDNP faction were represented and the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP also spoke in the debate. On the other hand, if we look at opposition representatives, three of the five factions were not even present, and only one of the two groups present actively participated in the debate, courtesy of a woman representing her. As far as administrative courts are concerned, although this is not so closely related to the 2017 OBH report, but so that the honourable students, as well as the spectators, can understand it precisely, she asked why this administrative court should do its job so well within the current judicial framework. Madam Member, it is necessary for you to be able to do even better. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]] In order to be able to do better, and, Congresswoman, this is not a Hungarian invention, the Austrians introduced it three years ago. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The Austrians also introduced the administrative court. Compared to Austria's eternal neutrality in 1955, this eternal neutrality would have applied to Hungary if Hungary hadn't been forced into the Warsaw Treaty three days earlier, so, since Hungary had become a member of a military group, it couldn't have been subject to the eternal neutrality of Austria. So, from 1955 onwards, Austria, organically, developed its own constitution, three years ago, i.e. in 2015, came to the conclusion that it had passed an administrative court law. In comparison, Congresswoman, the fact is that we got there quite quickly, although with smaller Vargabes, because in 1949, in the shadow of the Soviet bayonets, Hungary was forced to have a Soviet-type constitution, and at the same time the administrative court that had worked so well was terminated. We had to create a new Fundamental Law, you know, that's the Easter Fundamental Law, and after that, we obviously had to put civil law, criminal law, substantive law, and then procedural law rules in order, and now we have to put the issue of the administrative court in order. So, compared to the fact that this was possible in Austria from 1955, it was opened in 1990, with three years apart, I think that we brought this almost 45 years in pretty quickly. Thank you very much, and I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-24	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm came forward in order of business, and I'll give you the floor in a minute.
u2018-12-13-25	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr President with respect whether we are taking part today in the same grace as yesterday, that 190 Members are at least absent now, but can we trust that they are still here today, because since yesterday we have learned that there is a new system in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Should I put my card in or not?]] This is that the congressman doesn't even have to be in the building, and they can vote for him, because we received today's letter from the Parliament's Office that Members didn't have to place an identification card in the machine to give their votes, because they were obliged to be present. I'd like to know if we're going to share in that favor at today's session. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-13-26	Thank you. Madam Congressman, this was not a point of order, but, by the way, I would like to say that everything is in order here on my computer, and only those who are here are logged in, so I will reassure the Congresswoman. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Proposals for amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. The report on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2017 and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption until closure. Welcome, Attorney General Péter Polt. Report submitted by the Attorney General B/1258. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/3895. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt, the author of the report.
u2018-12-13-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Article 29 (5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary and Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 84. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Act, the Attorney General submits an annual report to the Hungarian Parliament. The written report has already been received in part by honourable Members in electronic form. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the format of the written report has changed significantly compared to previous years, and the statistical tables and diagrams have been placed in the text for a better understanding and a more graphic presentation. In fact, for the sake of comparison, the report contains the same parts as in previous years. In my oral addition, I would like to describe some of the important facts in the report. I would also like to point out in advance that all the figures showing the operation in 2017 show that the functioning of the prosecutor's office was characterised by respect for the law and a high level of knowledge of the profession. Under the relevant laws, the prosecutor's office carries out its duties in two large groups of cases, with a larger share in the criminal case, with a smaller part outside the criminal case and operating in public law. I would like to say a few words about these, taking forward the criminal case. The number of cases registered and pending in 2017 in the criminal law sector has steadily decreased over the last six years. This downward trend since 2013 has continued in the last year, i.e. the criminal situation has changed positively according to all data, and this is now a continuous trend. [[11.20]] As regards the number of registered crimes, in 2016, we registered 290 779 crimes, only 226 452 crimes in 2017. It is worth looking around to see how this number is distributed among the different categories of crime. I would just like to highlight some of the typical categories of crime. The first of these is the number of manslaughters committed intentionally. We registered 101 such acts in 2016, only 92 in 2017. The number of so-called street crimes and the development of these numbers are very important in the context of the criminal situation, as this is also closely linked to the sense of public safety. That's the typical crime of robbery. In 2016 we registered 1141 robberies, in 2017 we registered 853. There are categories of crime that have received great attention in recent years. There has been a very significant change, mainly as a result of the various measures. I would like to mention the smuggling of people; I would like to mention three figures here: in 2015 there were 662 such crimes, in 2016 351 and in 2017 179. I will also mention the crime of fiscal fraud, given that this creates a very broad interest in society. The number of fiscal frauds decreased from 2444 in 2016 to 1880. There are some crimes where we cannot be so satisfied with the evolution of numbers. In particular, transport offences should be mentioned, which are basically driving in the drunk state, or perhaps even in the careless cause of road accidents, although there are declining trends here, but drunk driving, for example, is growing. There is a similar trend to the crime of drug abuse, where 6544 were registered in 2017 compared to the previous data of 6032 in 2016. I would also like to mention, in part, corruption offences because of their danger and partly because of public interest. The number of corruption crimes has also increased, from 984 in 2017 to 1123. Here an interesting trend can be observed, that the number of bribes in office shows an increasing trend, while the number of economic bribes is decreasing. This can be partly linked to different methods of reconnaissance. Here I would like to mention the reliability test, which is a very significant detection method for office bribery. In the criminal case, the prosecutor's office investigates under the law, supervises investigations, prosecutes and prosecutes the courts. As regards the prosecutor's investigation, investigations referred to the sole prosecutor's authority were carried out partly by the Central Investigator's Attorney General and partly by the Central District and Investigation Prosecutor's Offices in 2017. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as a result of legislative changes, in the future, this investigative activity will be performed exclusively by the Central Investigator's Attorney General or regional departments, and the preparation for this has started in 2017 and has been completed this year. This was also an additional task for the investigating prosecutors. For others, the most important investigative activity was the detection and repression of corruption carried out by such persons in addition to other crimes committed by officials. As regards supervision of the investigation, the prosecutor's office examined more than 313,000 investigations in 2017. I mentioned the reduction in the number of cases. To compensate for this, there is more time and energy left to raise the level of investigations. This is shown by the fact that the number of cases under increased prosecutor's supervision increased by 7.5 percent in the previous year, i.e. in 2017. There is a significant number of complaints filed at the D.A.'s office. A lot of people still go to the D.A.'s office for investigation, instead of press charges. A total of 20 049 prosecutors had to be assessed during the period. In 2017, the combined number of completed investigations to be prosecuted by the investigating authorities was 102 630. More than 26,000 of these cases were indicted, more than 13,000 cases brought before the defendant, while more than 18,000 cases were brought before the court to be prosecuted without trial. Court of Justice was brought before the Court in 2017 as 23,1 percent of all charges, while the prosecutor made a 32,3 percent motion to stay out of trial. These are data to be highlighted, as these institutions served to speed up the procedure, the prosecutor's office in these cases has made an extremely significant contribution to the speedy and legal treatment and termination of cases. Almost 85 percent of the cases and 91 percent of the cases brought forward with the proposal to terminate the investigation were dealt with within 30 days, so the prosecution also complied with the legal deadline and even acted within it. As far as the action before the court is concerned, according to the general trend, the number of cases settled by the court in the reference year has decreased by 6.4 percent and the number of defendants involved has decreased by 9.5 percent. As a result, the negotiating burden of the prosecutor's office decreased in 2017. However, this was not only due to the aforementioned data, but we have reduced the negotiating burden by not negotiating the court that I have already outlined. For others, how successful this has been: more than 93% of the prosecution's motions for court proceedings were found to be well founded by the court. [[11.30]] The number of penalties imposed by the courts has increased further, more than 83 percent of the sanctions have been imposed as penalties by the courts; however, the structure of the penalties has changed slightly, the number of imprisonments for life has decreased, and in 2017 the court has imposed such penalties on 21 defendants. The prosecutor's office has found that the penalty practice is mild, that the courts impose penalties close to or below the lower limit; this practice is influenced by the prosecution's practice, inter alia, of appeal. This is perhaps where we find the least effective data in the prosecution's operation: in 2017, the effectiveness of the prosecution's appeals was 51.9 percent, but we want to maintain this practice, so the current appeal practice, because we believe that this is an important tool in enforcing our opinion on imposing sanctions. As far as the prosecution is concerned, this has been steadily rising since 2013. In 2017, it was 97.8 percent, the highest value of the last ten years. 59,766 loaded, 82,23 per cent of those charged, the court declared the defendants guilty of everything. I would also like to point out here what I have already said to the Judicial Committee that, knowingly, a new law on criminal proceedings has entered into force on 1 July 2018, which will obviously affect the various statistics, so these statistics should start from a new base next year. My prognosis is that this is a high in law history, which was born in 2017 in terms of indictment. The prosecution also had an important task of examining the practice in 2017. In 2017, important investigations were carried out in respect of total penalties, in respect of cases of fraudulent treatment with a final acquittal, and important guidance was provided to increase the indictment of corruption offences, misuse of office and misappropriation. In addition, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office issued a number of 68 general guidelines in 2017. I already mention here, although this concerns the public law sector in particular, but also affects the criminal case, that in 2017 the two disciplines issued joint guidelines on the criteria to be applied for the authorisation of the prosecutor for reliability investigations and for the legality control of the completed investigations. This is relevant for the detection and repression of corruption. Last year, as in previous years, the Public Prosecutor's Office contributed to the codification of criminal law, our involvement in the preparation of certain laws to be drawn up in the context of the recoding of the law on criminal proceedings was outstanding. A few words about the public interest field outside criminal law. The number of registered cases did not fall much compared to the previous year's turnover, but this decrease was still felt, and I believe that the public law sector has now reached the number of cases that the public law sector will find its place in the prosecutor's system. Within the decline, which represented around 2 percent, the number of cases in legality control activities was around 1.5 percent lower than the arrival in 2016. This also refers to an important change, which I would reiterate, that the prosecutor's office no longer exercises legal oversight in the public interest sector, but rather legal control. I mentioned the reliability checks, the prosecution's work on this. In 2017, the designated Attorney General's Offices approved 833 decisions on the basis of the National Defence Service initiative, only 64 cases were refused by the Public Prosecutor's Office and 17 criminal proceedings were initiated on the basis of the checks carried out. I have to mention the area of importance and sensitivity for society, the unfair business behaviour in which the prosecutor has certain powers, although not too wide-ranging, but due to the unfairness of the standard contract terms, the prosecution increased the number of actions in 2017 by 42 applications this year. I must specifically highlight the field of criminal justice supervision and legal protection. This is the area where we keep seeing rising numbers, so the number of cases is rising here. It is clear that this is also related to the number of applications received. The prosecutor has a very important role to play in ensuring the legality of prison execution, and we also represent Hungary in these matters internationally. As regards other activities, I would like to highlight the closeness of relations with Parliament. In 2017, MPs addressed 93 written questions, 5 immediate questions and 4 oral questions to the Attorney General. All of these have been answered, of course. As regards relations with the Curia, of course we are present as prosecutors, as prosecutors in various cases before the Curia, but of these, the appeal lodged by the Attorney General for legality is highlighted; this was done in 28 cases in 2017. This is important because this is the only way to deal with otherwise irreparable violations. The Curia has examined 24 appeals in this year and has decided in 22 cases according to the motion. The legal unit procedure should also be highlighted. In the last year, 7 legal unit proceedings were launched in the criminal sector, 6 of which were initiated by the Attorney General. In 2017, in the field of public interest protection, we made written statements in three legal unit procedures. I would like to highlight the relationship with OLAF among international relations. [[11.40]] In 2017, OLAF, a well-known financial audit body of the European Union, sent a total of six recommendations to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office on its investigations and proposed to prosecute them. In two cases, the prosecution ordered an investigation, in three cases the recommendation and final report were attached to an ongoing investigation and in one case provided for the continuation of an investigation which had already been terminated in the same case. This is also in line with previous years' practice and the practice of the following years. Of the cases initiated on the basis of OLAF's recommendations and indications, four cases were prosecuted in 2017 and four cases were brought to an end. That's 50 percent. The average European ratio in this area is 42 percent, so we are much better than the European average. I would also like to mention the relationship with Eurojust. Eurojust is the European Union's prosecutorial coordinating body, which is of great importance in the organisation, formation and conduct of so-called joint investigation teams. In 2017, the Hungarian authorities started 8 earlier and participated in 7 new joint investigation teams formed in the year. Two of these initiatives were launched in Hungary during the year. Hungary continues to belong to a narrower group of Member States which have initiated more than 100 registered Eurojust cases per year, with which it has become an extremely active member of the European Union's judicial cooperation, from 11th to 7th place. On 1 January 2017, the number of authorised prosecutors was 2044 and the total number of authorised prosecutors was 4764. In 2017, it was not possible to put forward a draft proposal in line with the situation at that time. At the same time, there were 36 appointments of prosecutors and 33 of them. I would like to mention the disciplinary procedure: it is not high, it is even very low, which is a good sign. 16 disciplinary proceedings were initiated during the year, most of which were of less weight. The activities of the Hungarian Attorney's Training Centre should be highlighted. The Hungarian Attorney's Training Centre is conducting a very significant training course, and it has a major role to play in the fact that the prosecutor's office can be considered one of the most prepared judicial organizations, not only in Hungary, but also in Europe. We, like the court and the investigating authorities, are developing IT. In 2017, IT was a priority to comply with the rules on electronic administration as of 1 January 2018. It's happened, and the D.A.'s office has started using this system on January 1st of this year. As regards the economic conditions, at the chapter level of the last year, HUF 43 billion was available for initial expenditure and revenue, which covered the various costs of the prosecutor's office. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The National Assembly is responsible for assessing the functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2017. I believe that in 2017, Hungary's prosecutors carried out a stable, high-level and legal professional activity in comparison with all the objective data relevant to its operation, thereby contributing to the effective and rapid implementation of the Hungarian justice system required by the Fundamental Law and other legislation, which society otherwise rightly expects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-28	Thank you very much, Attorney General. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, rapporteur for the motion for a decision.
u2018-12-13-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Assistant Attorney General, gentlemen! Allow me, first of all, to give a special welcome to the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament, Mr.Péter Polt, the Attorney General and his colleagues. Ladies and Gentlemen, Pursuant to Article 29 ( 5) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the Attorney General submitted to the National Assembly the B/1258 on the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2017. 1st report of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Committee on Justice of the Parliament discussed it as a designated committee as a committee responsible for tasks and powers on 4 December 2018 and supported its adoption by 7 yeses and 3 non-voting, without abstentions. The Judicial Committee concluded that the report provided detailed information to the National Assembly on the wide-ranging tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with criminal justice, its activities under public law, its legal control and its work in connection with the enforcement procedures. Ladies and Gentlemen, The prosecutor's organisation has done its work at all levels in 2017 in a legal framework and in accordance with the requirements of timeliness. Therefore, we congratulate the Attorney General and all prosecutors for their excellent work in 2017. In fact, they have achieved outstanding results at European level, and their relationship with international organisations is excellent, and they are not only a simple member, but they are specifically counting on the Hungarian prosecutor's office and the main prosecutor's thoughts in relation to the different solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, Compliance with procedural acceleration needs is well demonstrated by the fact that 91 percent of the cases received with the proposal for indictment have been dealt with within 30 days by the prosecutors. It's amazingly good data. Finally, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the relevant provisions, the presentation of general trends, the performance of general administrative tasks and the activities of the judiciary in general have been described in detail in the General Prosecutor's report for 2017, and this has ensured that it has also received a positive view in our committee. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, at the meeting of the Judicial Committee on 4 December 2018, the Attorney General's Office's activities in 2017 were B/1258. and adopted by the European Parliament. [[11.50]] The Rules of Procedure of the Judicial Committee shall be laid down in Article 84 of the Rules of Procedure. § 2 H/3895. In its proposal for a decision submitted under number 1, the Attorney General recommended his report for 2017 to the Parliament for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] H/3895. In its proposal for a decision submitted under number 1, the Attorney General recommended his report for 2017 to the Parliament for adoption. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause in the pro-government benches. )
u2018-12-13-30	Thank you very much. I'll ask if the Secretary of State wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It says no. The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to István Bajkai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-12-13-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Here, before this House, it has been said several times, and we may not be able to stress it enough; the last time, our fellow Member, Chairman of the Justice Committee, Imre Vejkey, said that our European culture, our existence in Europe, is based on three great foundations. One is the idea of freedom and democracy of Greek philosophy, the other is Christianity itself and the third is Roman law. Therefore, once again, if I may, I would like to add to my speech a sentence of Roman law, which I would like to begin with, and this is a kind of slogan and control of all that I would like to say today in relation to the report by the honourable Attorney General. It says, "Iustitia est regnorum fundamental." Modern translation: every state, every state is based on law. And if you'll excuse me, I can't put this sentence under control, following yesterday's events here in Parliament, to all the opposition's attention, with Jesuit determination. Article 29 (1) of our Fundamental Law defines the duties of the Public Prosecutor's Office immediately after sections 25 and 28 relating to the judicial organisation and the courts, comprising a total of four articles, which reads as follows: the Prosecutor General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent, as a public prosecutor, the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. The Public Prosecutor's Office pursues crimes, acts against other illegal acts and omissions, and facilitates the prevention of illegal acts. The Fundamental Law also declares that the Attorney General will report annually to Parliament on his activities. We are here today to discuss this report here at the plenary session. The Judicial Committee, as has been said, has examined the report before us, which is extremely detailed, thorough and reviewable, and has found it acceptable, together with the addition of the Attorney General. Our basic law lays down the basic framework for the prosecution's duties, the details of which are broken down by the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Legal Status Act, which provides for the following: the Public Prosecutor's Office enforces the State's criminal claim under the conditions laid down in the Law on Criminal Procedure, directs, supervises or carries out the investigative procedure for the preparation of the prosecution, represents the public charge in court proceedings, supervises the legality of the execution of the sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, The report before us contains the results, statistical and other data and summaries of the tasks defined by law. In the most important measure again, there was a decrease similar to the previous years, since the authorities registered 60,000 fewer crimes than last year, and the number of offenders was less than a year ago. The most serious crime, the number of intentional manslaughter committed, has also decreased according to the above-mentioned trend. I would like to point out that the number of robberies has resulted in a major decline, which has significantly improved the sense of security of people and our citizens. There is also a slight deterioration in the number of traffic and drug-related offences. The public's confidence in the prosecutor's office is growing, as a significant number of our citizens press charges directly in the prosecution's office instead of the investigating authorities. At the same time, the prosecution's success is shown by the fact that in 2017 the prosecutor charged nearly 10 percent fewer persons than in the previous year. The reduction is due to the effective application of the prosecution's institution to the courts in cases of simple judgment, non-verificational, confessional or criminality. Quick and thorough administration is in everyone's best interests. In this respect, too, the prosecutor's office was able to move forward, since more than 90 percent of the cases brought with the proposal for indictment, as has been said, have been dealt with within 30 days. I would also like to highlight the outstanding work of the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office to facilitate the application of the law, as this increases legal certainty. In 2017, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office issued 68 general guidelines, a high number of which shows the commitment of the prosecution and the Attorney General to the need for uniform application of the law. One of the main objectives of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of standardisation is to ensure that the legality of evidence is enforced in all cases in procedures for corruption offences based on a reliability investigation, and guidance was issued in 2017 on the criteria to be applied in the licensing of trust investigations and the legality control of completed investigations, which also took into account the established practice of the European Court of Human Rights. I would also like to mention the successful application of certain permissions for the Attorney General. Such power is that, in the interest of legality, the court may bring an appeal against a final decision of the court, which cannot be challenged by any other extraordinary remedy, which is contrary to the law. The Attorney General has done so 28 times, of which the Curia has judged 24 in the reference year by deciding in 22 cases in accordance with the motion of the Attorney General. I believe that this number also shows how prepared, careful and committed the Attorney General and the prosecutor's organisation he runs are to carry out his work. There is also a sound professional background to the fact that six out of the seven legal unit proceedings initiated in the criminal sector were proposed by the Attorney General, and at the end of the proceedings conducted in the year, a decision was taken in accordance with the Opinion of the Attorney General. The reports show that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is an active participant in international law enforcement cooperation; for example, the joint Hungarian-China prosecutor's cyber defense conference was an outstanding international event in Budapest, where the Chinese Deputy Prosecutor General participated. The Director General of the European Anti-Fraud Office also visited Budapest, where he agreed with the Attorney General on the status of pending cases. As has been said, Eurojust's President also visited Hungary as a guest of the Minister of Justice, within which he met the Attorney General. At the meeting, both parties confirmed that cooperation between the two organisations has been excellent for years. This was also said by Hungary as an active player in the work within Eurojust and by joint international investigation teams coordinated and funded by the organisation. The international events and cooperation listed in the report show that Dr. Péter Polt is a recognised and respected member of the Hungarian prosecutor's office led by the Attorney General's Office, the last of which is such evidence, at least as I have seen, of the visit to the Austrian Attorney General, who specifically and with great appreciation for the work of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office and the Chief Prosecutor's Office. I consider it extremely important for all professions to have regular training for workers, so that they can be most prepared for their activities. I have read with satisfaction that participation in vocational training is also ensured for authors, prosecutors and prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, Based on what has been said, it can be concluded that... [[Tibor Bana approaches Peter Polt and starts talking to him.]] I would like to ask the President to ensure that the house rules are respected. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Shall we clear the room? Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office carries out its duties under the Fundamental Law and sectoral laws at a high professional level, effectively and effectively, committed to the unconditional prosecution of crime, while maintaining excellent relations with international organisations as well as with foreign states. In view of this, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the report. We thank the Attorney General for his work, and we wish him and the D.A. further good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.00]]
u2018-12-13-32	Thank you, Congressman. [[Tibor Bana: The accountability will come, don't worry.]] Please, Congressman. Thank you. It is up to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker for the Jobbik Group.
u2018-12-13-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is very difficult for an opposition representative to read the report presented by the Attorney General in a kind of environment, a corruption environment that characterizes our country, and to evaluate it as if otherwise everything was okay. Indeed, the statistical data in the report may seem positive if we consider that between 2010 and 2013 the number of criminal offences that have ended up indicted by the Public Prosecutor's Office has increased steadily, and from 2013 to 2017, we can see a very large decrease of 18 percent in the statistical data in the report. We can ask whether this decline is due to what the report does not indicate. Fewer crimes have been committed? Have you discovered less crime? Fewer crimes have been prosecuted, which means they found the perpetrator and convicted the court? Or is it the fact that, over these years, Hungary has had less than 350,000 people, and as we know, the willingness to commit crime occurs in society in a certain, fairly clear percentage? We don't know. In any case, I think I myself, and I think the Jobbik faction, that the effectiveness of the work of a prosecutor's office, beyond numbers and reports, is most justified by the well-being of the population. My fellow Member from Bajka spoke earlier about the increase in the confidence of Hungarian citizens in the prosecutor's office because every year there is a significant increase in the number of cases where the complaint comes directly to the prosecutor's office. That's not what I've seen myself do. That's why this report is increasing. Indeed, it can be said that citizens may have more confidence in the prosecutor's office, but this may also be relative if they do not trust the prosecutor's office because the police do not gain the opportunity to investigate a crime committed against them by the police, that investigating authority, and they will not be able to use any other means than the prosecutor's office or even the attorney general's. I also dare to raise these thoughts because I have been in a position to appeal to the Attorney General many times in my work as a lawyer, because the investigating authorities have refused to even order an investigation, or to close a case without hearing witnesses after obtaining some documents. I consider this to be a form of mistrust towards the police. It has been very strong in recent years, and I must say that I also find this somewhat from the statistical data of the report that the willingness to detect the crimes committed by officials, or the investigation and, perhaps, prosecution in these matters, have fallen considerably. We're judging that this is probably not a coincidence. I've experienced one myself, and please don't take this the wrong way that I'm bringing up a specific example, when the prosecution refused to order an investigation in a case where, for example, in a traffic crime, police officers who were involved in the crime scene deliberately tampered with the report and the crime scene. It took four and a half years for the actual perpetrator to be convicted by the court because for a year and a half, they refused to even investigate a traffic accident that almost ended in death. When the expert finds in his opinion that the crime scene drawing is forged, a person makes a complaint, and the D.A. writes that he does not order an investigation because the result of the complaints has been ordered, the unsub has been investigated, and, if that has already been done, why should they deal with the fact that the prosecuting officials have falsified the most important document of a traffic crime, the crime scene; so if it can happen in a country, however beautiful the statistics, as much as it can be shown that the prosecution has over 98 percent of the prosecution before the courts, if even one person has to experience that the crimes committed by official persons may be concealed by refusing to detect it. In 2017, Hungary's corruption index improved slightly, in a very small proportion compared to previous years, but it is still in 66th place with 45 points, otherwise we share this 66th place with Senegal. Bulgaria is more corrupt than we are in the European Union. So if the 2017 data and surveys show that Hungary is so corrupt, then we should also see from this report that there should have been an increase in the detection, investigation and then prosecution of crimes that are typically corruption crimes. Compared to this, on page 8 of the report, we find that while the bribery was 333 in 2015, 835 in 2016, 945 in 2017, so if so many officials have committed corruption crimes, we welcome the way the prosecutors were able to investigate and act. But what is quite strange and peculiar is that if the number of crimes discovered has practically tripled in bribery over two years, which the prosecution then dealt with, the economic bribery, which is then indeed the kind of crime that occurs most often in corruption cases, in 2015 351, in 2016 78, and in 2017 50 can anyone imagine reducing economic bribery to one-seventh in a country on the list of corruption? Are the people who do this kind of work that well? I find this rather difficult to imagine, especially in the light of the fact that the OLAF report has clearly demonstrated the circumstances which could and should be investigated and seen day by day, since the results of public procurement appear transparently on public access surfaces, and we find that public procurement is, in an interesting way, always won by the same economic circle. So I consider that our corruption index, this extremely declining trend in economic bribery and the well-being of citizens and the phenomenon of the narrow economic circle obtained in public procurement make it impossible to conclude that the prosecution has actually done its job in this regard. But I would certainly appreciate it if Mr. Attorney General could convince us that he did. [[12.10]] Finally, allow us to do so, because we can't abandon the phenomena that are important to many of our citizens in everyday life, and there are certain obstacles to the performance of our task, and if not, to the consequences of the one who did so. Just two weeks ago, we were with the members of the Judicial Committee at the Attorney General's Office in Austria, who spoke with honorable words about our attorney general Péter Polt. Thank you, too, for a pleasant trip with my fellow Members of the Committee on Justice present. In the second sentence of the Attorney General of Austria, he said that we know that he is the main guardian of the law in Austria, and in this way he and his organization strive to ensure that all organisations and persons comply with the law and act with perseverance and determination in this respect. Our constitution, which, as we know, existed for how long, is still 51. Paragraph 1 states that the Public Prosecutor's Office is indeed the main guardian of the law, beautifully, expressly stating that the prosecution, the Attorney General, examines, supervises, protects, and protects the legality of the activities of all persons, natural or legal persons; protects the legality of the proceedings of all organisations and persons, and strives to ensure that everyone follows the law in this respect, and then this great Fundamental Law, in Article 29 (1), degrades the prosecution to the level of prosecution. For me, it's depressing, and I think it's not a coincidence that Austria's attorney general said it two weeks ago that the prosecutor's office is the main guardian of the law. By the way, we see that the prosecutor's office is in a difficult situation with this significantly narrowed power, because who would citizens expect in a democratic country to eliminate it in the event of an illegal situation and have consequences, such as the prosecutor's office or even the attorney general's. Why did I bring up these thoughts? Last night, we received a letter from this Parliament's office that it is completely legal that if a parliamentary representative is not in the House, in the Chamber, or not putting his card in, it is legal to vote for him. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Cheaters!]] I consider that although the D.A.'s office and the Attorney General's office are no longer the guardian of the law, and they are not allowed to act in any way, the D.A.'s law has retained a right to detect crimes on their own initiative. Yesterday in this House, where we invited the Attorney General today to listen to his report, there was such a shame that we did not honour the Attorney General by coming into a House where things are always legit, that Members who contributed to this did not have to say to the Chief Prosecutor today that I respectfully ask him to do an investigation on this matter on his own initiative. Because because of all those involved in pushing anyone's button, even if they were not in the building as a representative, and so was the vote of forty laws, including administrative justice, I consider that I could not do that in my speech as a general speaker, that these circumstances were not mentioned, because if in this country, it would be the main task of the Members, the Attorney General, the President of the National Assembly, the Supreme People, that they should never, ever, ever, but if so, have consequences. [[Dr. Károly Becsó: You did it!]] I apologize for bringing this up, but if we leave this House today and end this session with such a terrible thing as this, I think we won't mention it in a cultural way, then you can really ask us that we are finally coming into this House. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-13-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy in 15 minutes.
u2018-12-13-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Of course, I will not take this 15 minutes, because then I would have given a real keynote speech, but I do not wish to make it look like a real Parliament has a real debate here, and we should have listened to a real report. I would not even like to draw attention to my opinion, but to the opinion of the hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who have already signed to support the collection of signatures which force the European Union prosecutor's office. These hundreds of thousands of people also gave an opinion on the work of Péter Polt, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the entire prosecution. The reason we can't give you an exact number is because very, very many people collect these signatures, the task of these days is to give us an exact number next week. In any case, I have brought the 5,000 signatures received yesterday, and I will show this to the Attorney General, and I think it is very impressive to see the opinion of 5,000 Hungarian citizens in one. Once again, I'm not gonna give a speech, I'm gonna go myself, even today we're gonna collect signatures. There are a lot of people working on this, and a lot of people still have to work on it. I could highlight a lot of people, some of whom have already collected 2,000 signatures. For me, one of the nicest signing collectors of this week is a former teacher who collected 550 signatures from himself in a small settlement; because people know that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is covering for the Hungarian government and allows European Union funds to be stolen without any control and without any further counting. However, I would like to draw attention to two things in two minutes or less. One is that unfortunately, it is important to know that today the Hungarian prosecutor's office is literally assisting, directly assisting in having two thirds of the Fidesz. Yesterday, in order to be able to pass two-thirds of the laws, the prosecution had a very clear direct role to play. This is regrettable in many ways: it is, of course, regrettable also because of the death of our fellow Member, Ferenc Hirt, but it is most regrettable because now two thirds of Fidesz are effectively supported by the vote of György Simonka. György Simonka could have been arrested four years ago. A simple veterinarian may also notice at home if he looks at the network that was created around György Simonka, that there were foundations, non-profits, which won EU grants, in the public databases, in which György Simonka had family members and acquaintances, and they then entrusted companies that were also familiar with György Simonka and members of his family. In this case, you've already made several arrests, we've been in correspondence, we've had prior arrests. I've seen confessions where these arrested people told me that everything was done by György Simonka, that this man hasn't been arrested in four years, and they're not arresting him now, just asking for his immunity; they're not arresting him for maintaining two thirds of the Fidesz. At the end of the day, I would like to tell you a story; there is a great deal to be told about how they help and how they release the most serious criminals in a truly amazing and often ridiculous way. I would like to draw attention to the software acquisition of the Klebelsberg Center. Here one and a half billion forints of EU money were supposed to buy software, and I received information that they were not implemented. János Áder's sister, Mrs Pölöskein, told me that everything was fine, that there was no problem. When I asked him to show me these softwares, he didn't show me, and it was finally his successor that I could see, and I was really convinced that we didn't have these softwares, that most of them didn't work. After I filed a complaint in this case, the Prime Minister's Office also concluded clearly that 500 million HUF of the HUF 1.5 billion of software does not exist, 500 million of the software does not work, and possibly 500 million of the software is operational. [[12.20]] Then the audit body of the Ministry of National Economy called EUTAF also carried out an investigation. The reason I know all this in detail is because I'm quoting a decision to close an investigation. This EUTAF study also described the fact that, based on their on-the-spot investigations, a large part of these softwares never existed, and another part of it does not work. Then the NAV investigator closed the investigation by saying that nothing had happened, because they also contacted EMMI experts, and that EMMI regularly monitored this project and found no abuse. So the NAV detective didn't lift his ass, he didn't go on Bajcsy-Zsilinszky road, he didn't see if these software existed, he didn't believe the Ministry of János Lazarus, he didn't believe the NGM that these softwares didn't exist, but he simply closed the investigation, and you agreed to this without further ado. I don't think we need any clearer evidence when there's no software, but they paid 500 million for it, there's no software working, but they paid 500 million for it. Once again, I will stop speaking, because it is completely unnecessary, and I do not want to make it look like we are in the real debate of a real Parliament. But I'm gonna show you these things, they're really impressive. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-13-36	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied.
u2018-12-13-37	Mr President, Dear House, I can say without exaggeration that yesterday was a black day of Hungarian democracy, a day of shame with the election fraud that you committed here, not for the first time, at Fidesz-KDNP in this House. [[Dr. Károly Becsó:]] And don't make faces, but press a button if you have the courage to get into the debate. by having a voting machine and voting on it or voting on it, who knows who. I would like to take this opportunity that, since you have invited the Attorney General, who is now in this Chamber, I would like to take the opportunity to order from your office the investigation of the election fraud organised by Fidesz and the vote fraud organised by Fidesz yesterday in Parliament. It is quite clear, Mr Attorney General, that you are not supposed to have any discretion in this matter. If you detect a crime of this type, you must take the necessary steps and order an investigation that makes it clear that my fellow Member Tamás Pintér, who has left Parliament for a few minutes, could have voted on his computer. Why did your voting machine work? How could you have done this incredible fraud? And so, Mr. Attorney General, and I will also appeal to the three pro-government representatives who have come to work, and I will ask you, if yesterday it was entirely right for you to vote without a voting card, with voting machines coming to life on their own, to be in Parliament, then if I pull out my card and read their sins on your head, then my voice will continue to be heard, won't it? 'Cause this card doesn't have to be for this. And, yes, I read their sins on their heads, because on a member's day they brought together an organized fraud in the parliament of Hungary, they brought together that a man who was not present in the House could have cast his vote, and then they wish to pass the slave law through the system. What you're doing is amazing. Shame on you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-12-13-38	Thank you, Mr President, but I would like to warn you that the agenda is about something else. I understand you're asking an important question, but that's not on the agenda right now. I will give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz in a normal time frame.
u2018-12-13-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you about the 2017 Attorney General's report that this institution operates in exactly the same way as the Hungarian Parliament did yesterday. Subscribed to self-interest, serving the interests of the Hungarian government, not serving the interests of Hungarian society, especially independence, simply desecrating the prosecutorship and justice of an EU Member State. I must say that in the free world, democratic power is never used to eliminate the rule of law and the independence of the democratic institutional system. And although, at the moment, the institutions of the judiciary may function as you, my fellow Members of the Government, expect, but I must say that the judgment over the current practitioners of power is, after all, pronounced by the history books, and that is what you will not be able to pull yourself out of, whatever you claim about yesterday's sitting day, whatever you claim to say about how the prosecution works. Well, thank you for coming in, Attorney General, but you shouldn't have. Thank you.
u2018-12-13-40	Thank you, Congresswoman. There are now two minutes to comment. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai.
u2018-12-13-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I didn't want to say anything, but I do think that what was said requires a few sentences. Firstly, I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to this point in relation to the various speeches that what is now on the agenda is the discussion of the prosecution's report on 2017 by the Attorney General. All other issues raised here by individual opposition representatives are not on the agenda. I think it's also a question of legality, law, respect for house rules. For example, is it an obstacle to our work that someone wants to comment on the agenda at all. Once again, I would like to point out that it is also a matter of legality and the law whether a Member knows the house rules and knows his rights. Our colleague Andrea Varga-Damm gave a talk on personal experiences. I would merely like to refer to where citizens or legal representatives, lawyers or colleagues turn, and it is not possible to draw a general conclusion from that, since for a lawyer who is involved in matters with him it is the spectrum of the whole case for him, it cannot be concluded from that. For example, who goes directly to the investigating authority, who goes to the prosecutor's office, no conclusions can be drawn from it, especially as a former representative of a specialised profession specialising in this field. The second is that a few statements on the European Public Prosecutor's Office have been made in a comment, although I do not think this is the content of the general prosecutor's report for 2017. I would just like to note that our Fundamental Law clearly states that, within the framework of the judiciary, as its advocate, the prosecution is entitled to conduct investigative proceedings in certain jurisdictions and to supervise the investigation. So that's what our Fundamental Law says today. If there is another motion on the subject of amendment of our Fundamental Law by the opposition, there is a legitimate possibility to do so, but this must not be said in connection with the report by the Attorney General. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm sorry I'm late. I would simply like to reiterate the fact that it has happened now, just as regards the Attorney General, once again a kind of insult from opposition representatives. This also indicates to me that it is not important for them to comply with house rules. And if there's an investigation into yesterday, I think it's going to be about their procedure. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-42	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Stummer in a normal time frame.
u2018-12-13-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Your Honour, Mr. Chief Prosecutor, When my colleague Tibor Bana approached you earlier, he took the liberty of telling him that you had nothing to fear. For now, Mr. Attorney General, you have nothing to fear. For now. If you look around you, you will see a number of seats in the benches where the parliamentary representatives of the power that you have served for many years are sitting in a two-thirds majority. Three of these representatives are sitting around you now in the church of the Hungarian nation. How does it feel to be a Janichar, my dear gentlemen? How does it feel to be born a Hungarian man in this country and then live in the service of the Turkish Sultan? How does it feel to go against their own people by order of the Turkish Sultan, the mad king? How does it feel to desecrate this House, as you did yesterday? How do they account for their conscience? How will they account for this at the end of their lives when they account for everything they leave behind? Is that why you've been studying, gentlemen? Have you worked for years to have the Janichars of such a traitorous power, the mad king? [[12.30]] Mr. Attorney General, there are a lot of interesting things going on in this country. I would just like to mention some of these interesting stories to you. I don't know if you've heard of Cider Alma Ltd. in the fall of 2016. The company has a debt of 3.2 billion to the Hungarian National Trading House under the authority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The cvt. a group of companies in which the Orbán family has several positions, one of Cider Alma's subsidiaries, for example, is led by the Prime Minister's nephew. You must know him among your personal acquaintances. Anikó Lévai's brother, Gizella Lévai, and his partner, Imre Ökrös, are partners with the owners of Cider Alma in three companies. In fact, one of the sons of Gizella Lévai appears in the company group, Ádám Szeghalmi, cousin of the Orbán children, runs a subsidiary of Cider Alma Drugida Hungaro. In February 2017, the beautiful News TV turned to the MNKH with a public interest request to find out whether the debt of the Lévai pereputty had been settled. Imagine, Mr. Attorney General, what has come to light, Horus Factorház Zrt., connected to Lőrinc Mészáros. He paid the debt. You don't think there's anything special about that? But let's look at another one, Mr. Attorney General. The investigation into the Kun-Mediator case was concluded in spring 2017. I understand that according to the 2,000-page indictment, the company was unable to account for 6 billion out of 10 billion forints of damage. Even at the level of reference, the prosecutor's file does not include Karcag, the ex-minister, Sándor Fazekas, who leads the time of crime, or Minister Mihály Varga, who is a prominent visitor. Are they both protected by the realm of which you are one of the Janichars? I'd like to be enlightened, Mr. Attorney General, this is an excellent opportunity in the matter of Elios. How's the investigation going? I would remind you that due to the fraud of the young Titan of the Orbán family, we had to pay back 13 billion forints of support to the European Union. Have you found the suspect yet? Or do you not even know whose interest this gigantic, country-wide scam might have been in? While you're thinking about the answer, we can quickly fly over to another topic. Back in the day, we were naively outraged that Secretary Antal Rogán was going to the wedding with a helicopter. At the time, we had no idea that the Prime Minister was traveling on a luxury plane worth HUF 17 billion to watch soccer, and, according to him, he has done so since the 1980s, in the most natural way in the world. He's gonna do it in the same House with a blasír picture. I'd like to see what the D.A.'s office has come up with on the Elios case. Did you guys happen to have any suspicions of a crime in the back of your cerebellum? I'm sending you the property statement of Viktor Orbán to his office e-mail address. Be so kind as to browse through it and think about it, Mr Polt, and wonder how the Prime Minister, the honourable gentleman, has managed to manage these luxury flights over the last three decades. Because I'll tell you honestly, as a simple peasant child, I can't imagine how he managed to do that. We have recently been informed that the investigation against Szilárd Kiss has been terminated. Annex IV is amended as follows: Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. According to the D.A.'s justification, no criminal offence can be established on the basis of available data or evidence. Mr. Polt, how many other countries' secret services have to send feedback to make any of you suspicious of this visa-maker imposter who even failed national security clearance? How many Russian prostitutes and mobsters are gonna have to get caught in the West to investigate this case in substance? ! And then we didn't talk about the foam on the cake, the settlement bond business, which we believe is a net treason. Transparency International calculates that only the settlement bond business will cause the Hungarian State a loss of HUF 30 billion, while the Rogán-Habony ring offshore companies and the Azerbaijani, Georgian and Israeli businessmen realised and exported at least HUF 145 billion. In the framework of the programme, 20,000 foreign persons, including serious national security risks, could obtain a Hungarian residence permit without any substantive control. The Russian tax fraud, who was convicted of the crime in his original country, was also granted the right of establishment and could launder his money in the bonds of the Hungarian State. Do you know where the moral certificate was issued to him? It's a neighborhood familiar to you Janichars, but not just because you go there on vacation with your little pereputies, but because you're hiding your money in a Caribbean offshore paradise. That's where this gentleman got his moral certificate. It's very comforting, isn't it, Attorney General? We live in a just country, don't we? You're doing your job properly and worthy of it, aren't you? In recent years, a number of information has come to light that the Economic Commission has authorised several offshore companies to broadcast. To say nothing else, a large company registered in the Cayman Islands, represented by a certain banker in China, is a company producing the highest number of quotes on the Chinese market. What does God give you, exactly the person who booked Árpád Habony a helicopter tour of Hong Kong! Well, isn't that interesting, Mr. Attorney General? ! It seems to me that this opaque network is well suited to redeployment of some of the money collected from residents. It's your office, and you're in charge of it all. We can't rule out that some of the profits are going to land in government-wide decision makers. Wouldn't you like to follow up on that at work, Mr. Attorney General? Then we have our independent national bank, right? In total, the MNB contributed approximately HUF 300 billion to the foundation family of Pallas Athena. This amount is nearly 1 percent of the gross domestic product produced in Hungary over a year. The foundations invested some HUF 200 billion in sovereign debt, and the rest of the property was supported by persons close to the management of the central bank in the order of 100 million. Shouldn't we take a look around here, Mr. Attorney General? And if I've just brought some of these cases to the House as an excerpt, then look at yourself and think about what you think you're doing. The rule of law guardian or a servant of the Orbán family? While you're thinking about the answer, allow me to recommend a book to your attention. The Civitas Institute has compiled this excellent collection of books, the title of the Black Paper: Corruption in Hungary between 2010 and 2018. It lists such cases as MNB Foundations, Metro 4, Alsom Metrocars, Heart of Budapest, Renewal of Margithíd, MET case, Chain Bridge Palace, Spéder Zoltán, EMIR case, Budapest-Belgrád railway line, EuSOS case, Zsiga Marcell's real estate and construction case. There are about 106 cases in total. Now, obviously, it's your job to put this book somewhere, on the shelf at home, or put it in your office, put it in some box at home. But I'd like to ask you to take this book out, Mr. Attorney General, once you get there to account for your career. Look at it, look at it, and see what you've been assisting in this country for the last eight years. I'm gonna take this book to you right now. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. He's handing the book over to Dr. Peter Polt.]] [[12.40]]
u2018-12-13-44	Thank you, Congressman. [[János Stummer, while Dr. Péter Polt puts this publication on his desk: Enjoy reading!]] Now, in a normal time frame, in 15 minutes, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will have the floor. [[János Stummer leaving Dr. Péter Polt's meeting room: Shame on you!]]
u2018-12-13-45	Mr President, Dear House, While Mr. Attorney General has received the Black Paper on corruption crimes in Hungary, and I hope that he will have a deeper way of getting to know the contents of this, I would like to say that he has pocketed hundreds of billions of forints in the hands of the oligarchs near the government, which in recent years has migrated to places that have seemed quite strangely unknown in recent years, he raises fundamental questions about the activities and work of the Chief Prosecutor. We have already argued here in this House on a number of issues with my fellow Member from Bajkai, about the extent to which single-member public procurement may contain corruption risks, I say that there is a very high risk of corruption in such cases. We also argued that you believe that 19, I think, during certain periods, the proportion of single-man procurements is above 30 percent. Here you are arguing with statistical offices, not necessarily with me, but in itself, in cases where a similar sequence of events is assigned to a person, a company, and essentially without a rival, a market slice can be picked up in the vast majority of cases by a friendly entrepreneur close to the government, we can say that there is at least a suspicion that there will be fraud. But I can also tell you, and I address to the Attorney General, that in recent years, either in terms of land or in the allocation of concessional rights for tobacco shops, or in the examination of the entire economic sectors, we find that Fidesz-close oligarchs, good friends, have, to say the least, overexposed themselves, and that, indeed, hundreds of billions have been cut off from sources put aside for the public, and indeed from sources from which public status could have been improved in Hungary. We should also mention, if the foundations of the MNB have been mentioned, the tens of billions, hundreds of billions, have not one word for this? In order to create a compensation fund for the surplus of this money, especially the MNB, resulting from the exchange of foreign currency credits. It would have been possible to help the most difficult types of foreign exchange credit victims, those who have already been evicted. And if that were to happen, if you hadn't sabotaged this process, we wouldn't have had to face a record number of evictions in the year of so-called families. And it may not be the attorney general's authority, the various circumstances of eviction, if not a tribute, but an analysis, but you are operating in a system, working with each other, shoulder to shoulder. You can't miss what's happening in Hungary. Mr. Attorney General, do you know the Game of Thrones? Have you ever seen an episode? I must tell you, if you know the episodes of Game of Thrones, you will see that you have built the Lannisters empire in Hungary. Everywhere we look, behind the curtain are the blond curls, where we can see the blue eyes! Whether we look behind the curtain in the State Audit Office or in the Office of the Attorney General, or more important public offices and heads of state institutions, if we look around, we see those blond curls everywhere, Mr. Attorney General. And there comes a time when the Lannisters will fall over. And yes, then the hour of face-to-face will come. I will also face what I have said here in Parliament, and I have confronted you with arguments, facts, figures. But you too have to face the amazing economic gamble that has taken place in Hungary over the last decade. And we can also see, if we look only at the settlement bond structure: Mr Attorney General and my fellow Members with Fidesz will find no such thing all over Europe, because there is no such thing. Crazy based on such net corruption mechanisms is not found on the European market. And account for the 30 billion-dollar loss among Hungarians! And don't tell me it's not your jurisdiction. You could have launched and launched the investigation from the office in a number of such cases, regardless of which body will say the final word. But that amazing wink that they're testifying to is surprising to me, too. Don't say that you can't find any risks, you can't find any office around, say, construction investments; let's say, if we're in and out of Budapest, most of the construction investments are carried out by a good friend of your network. And if I could say what I am saying now in a decently functioning Parliament, then you would not stand up at the end of the debate within the framework of a closing line and give a fair professional answer at least to the professional questions raised, because I agree that we should refrain from qualifying. But here there is a succession of factual data, and typically we get the answer to it because Soros. That is the answer to our suggestions. I'd like to remind you that there's only one weak government behind Soros in any case. That's what happened yesterday. When Fidesz-KDNP here in Parliament, mocking house rules, mocking honor and ethics, passed the slave law and this madness, it did so not only through house rules, but also by circumventing the Hungarian nation. Now, don't be fooled by the fact that there aren't hundreds of thousands of people in Kossuth Square, because there will be hundreds of thousands in Kossuth Square, because no government can function against its own citizens. And I don't wish you to fail in violent circumstances, after events, God forbid, that's not what I wish. I wish you, at the last moment, to turn back from the path of madness, to withdraw the amendment of the Code of Work; to begin to let the state offices and, where appropriate, the State Audit Office, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office operate fairly; to end the political influence, the series of attempts to influence, because if you continue to do so, the episodes of the Game of Thrones will give you a clear lesson: the rule of the Lannisters will not be eternal. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-12-13-46	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The joint general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Dr. Péter Polt's signal:]] It says yes. Then it's up to you, Attorney General.
u2018-12-13-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I owe this House, the laws and the fact that Hungary has a rule of law, that, in compliance with the rules, I exercise the right that I regard as an obligation. Obviously, I do not wish to or can not respond to comments which are personal, abusive, threatening; I think that this is not my place, and this is not my duty or my right as defined in the law either. What I would like to say, however, is two comments on two sides of the same thing. He was one of the representatives who expressed his thanks and appreciation to the prosecutor's office, all the employees of the prosecutor's office. I welcome this and convey it with gratitude, and I really believe that they deserve this recognition with their work. The other side of the same thing is that I strongly reject the comments which affected each member of the prosecution's office and which challenged their fair work, their law-abiding behaviour. It's untrue, and I refuse, and I think it's my duty to do so. Some thoughts about what might perhaps be called professional; many of them, of course, did not affect or, of course, did not, but did not affect the 2017 report. Mr President may have warned about this, and there was also a voice from his representatives, which suggested that the report should perhaps be dealt with in accordance with the legislation. But if I find any connection, I'll answer that. [[12.50]] Andrea Varga-Damm's suggestion of what was the situation with corruption crimes was of a general nature, that there might be a decline here, because there is a research she referred to, where Hungary is indicated in 66th place on a corruption index, and although this shows an improvement, this is a very, very bad ranking. I have also explained it in the Commission debate, and I am referring to it now, and it is perhaps understandable and understandable for professionals that the corruption situation is not the same as that of corruption, and that it is not the same as that of corruption in the general public. It should be explicitly stated that, in reality, only the Criminal Code XXVII. However, public opinion and these corruption investigations also take into account other factors and are based on other actions when this index is created. For example, conflicts of interest or such a vertical cartel, such as definitely competition or private law phenomena, have nothing to do with criminal law. But what has to do with criminal law, such as economic crimes against the budget, against office, against property, such as budget fraud, where this sense is very common, cannot be counted as a corruption crime, simply because they are not, but they also play a role in examining the various feelings of corruption. So when I report here on how the corruption situation is developing in Hungary, I do not analyse the sociological situation, I do not combine the various indices dealing with corruption feelings, but the situation relating to corruption crimes, which is the task of the prosecution. I do not agree at all with how much economic corruption in the order of importance of office or economic corruption would precede the office. I believe that it is very important to combat economic corruption, its repression, but that action against official corruption is even more important for the functioning of the state, and the rising figures in this case show that the prosecution, together with the other authorities, has succeeded in combating this type of corruption. Others are a little bit of a tool, but I have to add that. I have mentioned the reliability tests several times; for example, we do not have a tool to detect economic corruption, and obviously this has a role to play in the fact that the numbers are different from those in the case of government corruption. What was also mentioned by Andrea Varga-Damm and we have excellent relations with the Austrian Supreme Prosecutor, professional and collegial relations with Austria and with a large majority of other neighbouring countries, and we cooperate very well in various criminal matters, and this must be said in this regard, I think that the Austrian Supreme Prosecutor cannot be called guardian of legality in the same way as he was interpreted in Hungary 30 years ago, which was then changed by legislation after the change of regime. As far as I know, the Austrian Attorney General can examine legality in the various proceedings, he is the chief prosecutor in the court of appeal, not the head of the prosecutor's organisation, and he is practically led by the Minister of Justice, while the Austrian Attorney General acts as the guardian of the legal unit. This task lies with the Hungarian Attorney General, and in this sense we can talk about one of the insurance companies of legality, at least that is how I know it, and not in the sense that I am sure of it, as the socialist Attorney General, who was the guardian of legality, was 30 years ago. As far as Mr Hadházy is concerned, the accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office is outside the powers of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office and the Attorney General, so I cannot tell him anything about this. In the context of specific cases, I can say that we have responded in all cases, if it is a question of representatives in a specific case, the legislation gives the Member the opportunity to do so and imposes an obligation on the prosecution. These are the answers that we have already done, and we will continue to do so. The same applies, however, to the fact that if a Member detects a criminal offence in a number of cases that have occurred several times here, then I suggest that he should press charges, even because if he perceives this in his official function, it is mandatory for him to file a complaint. With regard to other issues, I think that there are few comments on the 2017 report, and unfortunately I also had to notice that there were some speakers who were very little informed about what the report contained. I can say that the report contains all that the prosecutor's organization has done, and this report also shows that what it has done has been done legally and professionally. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government lines and the box.]]
u2018-12-13-48	Thank you, Attorney General. I'm going to ask Mr. Vejkey if he wants to comment. [[For signal:]] He says yes, so you have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-13-49	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate we just had on reporting the activities of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in 2017 was saddening. It was saddening for me because, on the part of the opposition representatives, the claims were not related to the 2017 report of the Attorney General. [[13.00]] In fact, the reason why it was truly sad is that it was not related to it, but the speeches were either personal, abusive, or fear - inspiring, and I must reject them. Let's get in line. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. The Attorney General answered the question between well-being and the corruption index, which he raised, including the OLAF report, and indeed also the activity of the Austrian Attorney General. So it is important to emphasise, ladies and gentlemen, that in Austria, the prosecutor's office is under the government, as opposed to Hungary, where the prosecutor's office is an independent organisation. In this regard, we will then talk about the powers of the Austrian Attorney General when he does not manage the Austrian prosecutor's organisation, well, it is a specific wording. The next speaker was our fellow Member, Ákos Hadházy, who Polemized about the EU Prosecutor's Office. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of sovereignty. It is a matter of sovereignty, and we, the Fidesz-KDNP, believe that under Hungary's sovereignty we must stand up under all circumstances, including with regard to the rejection of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we regard sovereignty as important and not self-sacrifice. These manifestations, which came from Congressman Hadházy, have only confirmed that we are also in a position which is very contrary to the sovereignty of our country. Then, as I saw it, you asked Mr. Attorney General about pending cases. To put it mildly, this is unworthy of a report for 2017. The next speaker was Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. We reject the wording that you have done, and in particular the fact that Fidesz-KDNP Members here in this Chamber would have committed any fraud or abuse during yesterday. Congresswoman Anett Bősz said that the report of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in 2017 was a disgrace. It's a morale move, and we're rejecting it for no reason at all. In fact, he did not put forward any substantive arguments, and then he did not speak of them, but merely made the prosecution and the prosecution's activities in 2017, which was unworthy of what the prosecutors had actually done in 2017. János Stummer is a fellow Member. There is much to be rejected here, from the personalizing, abusive, fear-fearing manifestations directed towards Mr. Attorney General, whether in personal appearance, because they went to him here at the trial, pointed to him, a few inches from him, explained things to him. I didn't take out what, but these things happened here in the Chamber. I think that this is almost intimidating, at least the attempt to do something, not to do it, to tolerate it. I'm sure he didn't want to take it, but he put up with it, Mr. Attorney General. We also reject the unfair attack on Prime Minister and his family. We also reject unfounded accusations. Not just because they're baseless, but because they have nothing to do with the agenda. Our fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, spoke again, repeatedly made unfounded accusations and did not include those on the agenda. Ladies and Gentlemen, I can say that thank you very much, Mr Attorney General, for your report, thank you very much for the excellent work of the Prosecutor's Office, which you have done continuously and also in 2017. I would ask this House to accept the report of the Attorney General in 2017 and the proposal for a decision submitted to this House by the Judicial Committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-12-13-50	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Proposals for amendments may be submitted by 16 a.m. This brings us to the end of the discussion of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr.Erik Fülöp applied for a post-scheduled speech:. How much will it cost the Hungarian taxpayers to develop the electronic ticket system in Budapest? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-12-13-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member of Parliament, I spend most of my daily life here in Budapest, the capital, and unfortunately I also have to face the annoying little things that affect nearly two million people in Budapest every day. This is when you have to have almost superhuman patience when you go to work in the morning for long minutes, and often even an hour in your car, waiting for the line to move and get out of traffic. But it is also trying to find a parking spot in the middle of Budapest. I think that we all see and know that the catastrophic traffic situation in Budapest could be improved primarily by improving public transport. That is why the decision and announcement of the Metropolitan Assembly in 2014 to establish the implementation of the electronic public transport ticket system in Budapest, Budapest, was joyful, in the previous period. Months have passed, years have passed, and no tangible results have been made in this regard, until the last month, when things have happened, I cannot say that unexpectedly, which have caused a bit of a stir to the still water. First, the BKK terminated the contract with the contractor, which aimed at creating the electronic ticket system, and then Mr. Mayor dismissed the head of the BKK, and then, during yesterday, an extraordinary Metropolitan Assembly, I say, almost drowned in scandal. István Tarlós announced that he was filing a criminal report on the design of the e-ticket system, and the opposition announced that he was also going to press criminal charges on this, since more than four years have passed, no tangible results have been made. What is even more shocking is that during these four years, according to press reports, the Metropolitan Assembly has actually spent more than HUF 12 billion of public money on a project that has not been implemented. The Metropolitan Assembly announced the redesign of this system and pushed the deadline for its construction, marked December 31, 2020, soothing the nearly two million people travelling every day in Budapest to continue to stand in a long, hour-long traffic jam, it is still difficult to use public transport. [[13.10]] As a hundred words, I think it is absolutely astonishing and absolutely shocking that it will take more than six years for the capital of Budapest to develop the possibility of an electronic ticketing system, with serious billions of people damaging taxpayers and thus the Hungarian state. Therefore, I think that the issue that I would like to address to the government is extremely topical, whether you have already taken or are taking any action on this. I think that those two million citizens of Budapest, two million workers who are working every day, deserve to be dealt with in an effective way, either by government or by short-term measures, and indeed the establishment of an electronic public transport ticket system in the capital city. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-12-13-52	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in February. Thank you for everyone's year-round work. I wish all my fellow Members, minority advocates, the staff of the Parliamentary Office and all those who have followed our work, a blessed, peaceful Christmas and a good rest. The meeting's closed.
