u2018-07-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The second day of the Third Summer Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and István Szávay will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition: Why are small-scale children not important to the government? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, A high school student in Tolna County came to me. In his letter, he wrote that the walkers, who go to high school having to get there from a small settlement every day, have problems with, among other things, how much trouble the schedule does not adapt to the needs of the students, so they often have to wait an hour and a half or two. He also wrote about the difficulties these often difficult families face in paying the rent they need to get to school every day, how much harder it is for them to get to a good high school, for example, as their peers in the big city, both financially and in time. Or just how much trouble it is that, due to bus departures and timetables, they are not able to take part in afternoon sessions or talent care, or less than their peers in the locality. But let me give you another example. Since 2015, the language skills and language skills of primary school students have been well assessed. This survey shows that there are enormous differences in language skills between students living in the villages and students living in the capital. For example, 60 percent of students studying German in the capital obtained good results on this test, while only 38 percent of students studying in the eighth grade in the municipalities did so. Similarly, these differences are large in English. 80 percent of the eighth graders in Budapest were good at the test, while only 54 percent of the inhabitants in the village. There are great differences in language skills between regions as well as in many others. In this respect, too, students from North Hungary and the North and South Great Plain regions are performing weaker, and the students from the capital are the best. It is also a special disadvantage that many of the students living in the villages cannot choose which language to learn, such as English, German, mostly these two languages, but what is in the school must learn. 80 percent of these schools have no way for the student to decide what language he learns according to the choice of the family or the parent. When I spoke about a previous comment, Mr Secretary of State, that the measure you are planning to take, which from 2020 would lead to a language exam for university and college further education, is also affecting disadvantaged students who, if any, live in small communities or communities, I also thought of this, as they already have a significant disadvantage in their language skills in their sixth grade and eighth grade, and they will obviously be pushed out of higher education in the first place. There are other measures that will likewise hit on them. For example, the constantly levitated high school admission reduction, the fact that they want to limit the number of students going to high school, because after they have ruined vocational training, students do not want to go to these demented vocational schools, vocational training institutions, so they keep levitating them, constantly mentioning that, then, in a good administrative way, they are pushing students from high school with a strict admission system, who come from a more difficult line or who are less successful in primary school. But to give you an example that is a little further away: now that you are ruining rural public culture by embarrassing cultural public workers... it is shameful that public workers were employed instead of real civil servants, but now they are being put on the street, so rural public culture becomes completely unmanageable. This will also be on these students, on their preparation options. I am afraid that Mr Secretary of State, as I have been used to in the last month, will again deal with my humble person and with the government before 2010. I would like to ask you not to, because, of course, I understand that it is difficult for you to process today that there have been years when you have not limited or governed, but it should be done after eight years. [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government ranks. Sándor Farkas: Freudian comment!]] Especially because there will still be a time when you will not be in power. Dear Secretary of State, None of us get paid to reflect on the past and appreciate the past, but to find solutions. I ask Mr Secretary of State, if you answer, to answer what you are planning to do to make Norbert and other students living in small towns easier to live and have more opportunities in education and education. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches. Németh Szilárd István: A simpler life, Norbert!]]
u2018-07-03-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, If anyone wanted to restrict someone, it was you, and most of all, small-scale schools were limited by the opportunities of small-town students. You summarized this in two words when the financing reform was introduced in 2006, with the two words that it would hurt. However, he explained further on 31 May 2007 how he felt about schools in small towns and small areas. Then he said, in full sentence, that a fragmented education system cannot be financed, can not be maintained in the long term. That's what you said, that's what you said at the time. In fact, he even made picturing remarks that these schools, these small schools in small establishments, I quote you: "In the field of education, too, they are building a system of independent kingdoms. That's what you said about small settlements and small settlement schools. And not only did they speak this way, but they did so, and they permanently locked them on the door of a total of 381 places of responsibility, such as school or school premises, in Hungarian: in so many places the education was terminated, in so many places the students could not have access to school. [[Gergely Harvesto: Would you have opened it?]] This was when you were on the government. In addition, of course, small settlements were most threatened financially by you increasing their responsibilities, reducing funding in the field of education, thereby increasing the deficit in municipalities, and this deficit became either debt or debt debt, which was then paid to the Fidesz-KDNP government for more than HUF 1200 billion in debt consolidation. But again in 2005, you gave us a piece of advice, we read your statement in Népszabadság on 6 October 2005, at the time your government said to Ferenc Gyurcsány in the lead that where there is not enough money, the schools must be combined. You have made this proposal and, as I said, you have not only made use of this proposal, but you have done so. And since there were fewer schools at your time, they expected fewer teachers, so they put 15,000 teachers on the street in a year, and those who stayed there took away a month's salary. That's how you wanted to honor the teachers working in the small settlement, and that's how you wanted to create an opportunity for everyone to go to school in a small settlement. [[9.10]] On the other hand, we have amended the legislation in such a way that there is a much higher amount of education for children today. If you look at how much money was spent on a high school student in 2009, how much budget expenditure was, 540,000 forints. Today it is 1 million 87,000 forints. If you look at how much it was for a kindergarten teacher, which is also important in small settlements, in your time it was HUF 608,000, now it is HUF 921,000 that we spend on a kindergarten teacher. [[Gergely Arató: Where do you get this from, Secretary of State?]] precisely in order to ensure the possibility of preschooling everyone in small towns, the possibility of schooling. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's not true!]] We have also created completely new forms for kindergartens, to be more precise: we have also created completely new forms for crèches so that these forms of education are available to everyone there. We have reopened schools in Lipót and other settlements, which you have closed, we have reopened, and we have made the legal conditions more flexible, so that where there are a minimum number, there are students whose parents would enroll in the small-town school, at least the lower school should be as close to the students as possible. This is how we tried to help students and families. The study districts also seek to help in various ways and ways. If I'm still watching the kindergarten, then, obviously, the municipalities will reimburse the cost of the compulsory admission to the kindergarten, and in the case of the school, there is a school district that has its own school bus, others provide rent support, and some people hire buses themselves and use paid services to help children get into school. It is clear from these, too, honourable Member, that you have quite simply perceived education in the area of withdrawal, and that you have tightened it where you could, through teachers' wages, information closures, local government normative withdrawal and multitasking, and we have sought to establish a sound budget for education. This will also be the case in the next year's budget, as the total value of spending on education continues to increase, and I believe that today those who want to learn in small towns are much safer than they were in 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group, MSZP Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2018-07-03-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a saying that if you look in the mirror and don't see what you want, don't look in the mirror. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In the MSZP they could have said it to each other many times!]] You can break this mirror, you can cover it up, but the reality remains real, it won't disappear what you don't like. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that what you told the Masterházy?]] More than once in the last few weeks, we have talked about how the former Soros Scholarship Prime Minister attacked independent justice and civil society, and now we see that they want to reduce freedom of expression, freedom of expression and restrict the right of assembly, simply because they do not like what they see in the mirror. He doesn't like how his people, his family, seem to urinate. He doesn't like having other opinions than Fidesz. He doesn't like the fact that there's still journalism independent of the government, and that there are still people who write that the king is naked. And I don't like the fact that the groups of society are publicly expressing their opinions and displeasure about what the Fidesz is doing. According to Fidesz, it's a private matter where a member of the government, as a deputy prime minister, who, when he's hunting reindeer, polar bear, who knows what else. I don't think it's personal. As long as someone is politically active, he's an active politician and public figure every day of the week. In a normal democracy, if it turns out that a member of the government accepts any benefits from a successful contractor in public procurement, and from this he carries on a hunt, the least he can do is resign the next day. But according to Fidesz, that's not a problem. It is not a problem that the Prime Minister's son-in-law stole EU funds from an organised group in the Elios case, the problem is that this has been revealed. No problem is that one of their ministers, Antal Rogán's successful businesswoman's wife, comes with a helicopter, the problem is that this will come out. And it's no problem for you that the biggest business genius in the world, the richest gas mechanic in the world, is resting on a luxury yacht of a billion and a half, the problem is for you to find out. And then I didn't mention Lajos Kósa's mother, Árpád Habony's luxurious parties or the growth and relationships of the Matolcsy family. Ladies and gentlemen, Why do they want to hurt the journalists? Do you really think it's gonna keep them from finding out how you spend public money, how you urinate? You think the small-town teacher, the hairdresser, the greengrocer, who's gonna have a luxury fork, a hunting house, or who's gonna buy up half of the Lake Balaton? Don't make people look so stupid. Do you really think that the Quaestor-harmed or foreign exchange credences will be appeased that they won't be able to protest in front of the Curia or in front of Matolcsy's house? Do you think that if the right of assembly is restricted, the socio-economic problems will be eliminated? You know what they say, if there's no muscle, there's no muscle fever. Ladies and gentlemen, It is up to you to accept another restriction on our freedoms. And now let me quote a Soros Scholar 30 years ago who is currently the Prime Minister of Hungary's words and sentences:, The political system that refuses to negotiate with the organized forces of society can only blame itself when it is shot. Just you. And it's not the shooters who have to be responsible, it's those who refused to negotiate with the peaceful ones. Admit them and let them work. They are shutting down the dialogue, making it impossible for the emotions that are gathering in this society to be conducted as normal civilians. That's what they make impossible. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, If you don't listen to me, then listen to your own prime minister, who said those sentences 30 years ago. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-6	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-03-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, we may have been talking about the same issues during the debate on the fundamental law amendment, where we have touched on the issues of privacy, expression of opinion and the right of assembly. There are very interesting points to left parties, especially in the light of the fact that in the autumn of 2006, perhaps even those who are sitting here, we all remember how the liberal-left coalition of the time was related to the right of assembly. [[Gergely Arató: To burn down the TV headquarters! Zsolt Gréczy: To set fire to your window!]] on fundamental freedoms, how the crowd was shot, how they led a horse-riding attack on peaceful memorials on 23 October, how they provoked the crowd [[Zsolt Gréczy: How did Fidesz MEP ask why no firearms were used! The president's ringing the bell.]] how the demonstrators in Kossuth Lajos Square were unlawfully disbanded and how they remained indebted to the codification of this area of law. In particular, this story is interesting because we are talking about an Act of 89, which was created by the then Parliament before the founding of the Opposition Round Table in the time of party state, and was approached specifically from the law enforcement side. The other issue is that life has gone beyond you and the practice of the courts has changed, for example, the appointment of court leaders was no longer bound to party membership. [[Uproar and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] So the courts interpreted this legislation as it could be within the framework. They said that the rubber sections that were included, which said that the legitimate interests of others could not be violated, were not sufficient to provide them with sufficient support in the event of a conflict of fundamental rights. That is why the Fundamental Law has been amended so that there is a solid foundation for the amendments that are in front of this House and that it will be possible to avoid it if you are ever to take up government again so that these irregularities can be made again. [[9.20]] This regulation is basically based on international examples, based on Swedish, Norwegian right of assembly. If you read carefully the justification of the law, which is very thorough, taking into account all international conventions from decisions in Strasbourg through UN documents, taking into account similar regulations in the countries of the European Union, you would find that you would not be able to make such speeches in Parliament, then you could only approach the issue on a professional basis. In this regard, however, we have unfortunately not seen any comments in recent years. There's an open political demagogism here, and there's an atmosphere going on for you. And to mix the part of how private life and public appearances are related to each other, and to regard this as a restriction on freedoms, or that lies cannot be written in the newspaper, that responsibility comes with what we say, what we write down, otherwise, just last week the Constitutional Court made a decision recommending this to them, they study that, for example, the title of the article is also responsible for the newspaper that makes a somewhat suspicious, slanderous, or false statement. I am very surprised at the comments of the better Members, because when we were on the seven-party conciliation of the Fundamental Law, [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Then you have also stated that you want privacy to be better protected, precisely because you have not been satisfied with the work of the press, for example, in relation to your leading politicians. So decide which side you stand on and what you want to say in these cases. And once again, although I know that 12 years is a very big perspective for you, they always say that we weren't born at the time, but take out the newspapers at that time, even the international press, and study that in virtually all cases in which proceedings have been initiated, you have failed both in court and in international forums. The Hungarian State still has to pay compensation in Strasbourg for the cases that you committed in 2006. Put the money together, pay it up, and then talk to me. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. We can continue to lose billions because you are misappropriating the EU proposals! It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-03-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the government and the members of the Fidesz MEPs often say how unfairly the European Union, under the pressure of George Soros, is about spending EU money, how unfair it is to make false findings, and how unfair it is that it will demand back serious hundreds of billions from Hungary. They say that, but let's look at the difference between statements and reality. In the support system of the European Union, resources from structural and investment funds are decisive both in terms of scale and importance for the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian people. It is therefore of particular importance that the amounts of aid applied for and awarded for and actually paid by the managing authorities, both the Members of Parliament and the Hungarian citizens, are informed of the amounts of aid which they have applied for and awarded, as well as of the amounts actually paid by the managing authorities. On the debate day held on 4 December last year, I objected to the fact that, according to the statistical data available at that time, more than HUF 500 billion exceeded the amount of aid awarded. That's not normally possible, but, as you know, everything's backwards. For this anomaly, the then responsible Secretary of State, Eszter Vitályos, replied that the current statistics on the Palyazat.gov.hu website show that, for some operational programmes, the amount of contracts in force is higher than the amount of aid awarded. The reason for this is that, after the granting of the aid, it is possible, within a regulated framework, after approval by the Government, to receive additional funds from a project by amending the grant agreement, thereby exceeding the initially granted aid. That's a lie, because there's no way. Although this response contained little concrete, it was capable of being blamed for the anomaly by the Secretary of State responsible for the government as a whole. Although the Secretary of State did not deserve to explain in her reply how it is possible in a rule of law that the government extends over the heads of the institutions and bodies that have decided on the proposals and commits to a higher amount of support for Brussels, this anomaly must not be explained by me, but by those who can punish the country for hundreds of billions of forints. Of course, the Secretary of State has promised to look into the problem and to remedy it. Let's see how medicine worked. By looking at the latest published statistics, I regret that there are more serious differences in the figures than before. For three priorities, an amount of aid greater than the amount of aid contracted has been paid. The priorities concerned are: IKOP-4, KÖFOP-3 and RSZTOP-1. A total of 89, almost 90 billion forints were paid more than they were contracted. In my opinion, the payment of amounts greater than those laid down in the existing grant contracts cannot in any case be lawful. Such an irregularity by the institutional system is expected to entail an immediate financial correction by the Commission. The question is, therefore, how is it possible that an amount greater than that laid down in the existing grant agreement has been paid to the beneficiaries. Are you planning to remedy the multi-annual problem that the functioning of the institutional system will finally be transparent in relation to the award, payment and settlement of EU grants and that the public will receive credible and up-to-date information? Do you intend to take any action on this matter? And it can indeed be said and said that the Union deals with such petty matters. With regard to Hungary, György Soros, under pressure, deals with such petty, 590 billion-dollar deficits, when you should have some small change, you think. Well, why can't they just sign a contract with a certain EU source, sign a contract with the sponsors, and then give them 90 billion more? Well, why shouldn't you pay so much allowance, you know. Now, here's the difference between your communication and reality. The problem is that these funds, this almost 600 billion forints, which the European Union will most likely demand from Hungary, will not be paid by you, you will be able to use your luxury yachts in your luxury houses, but those Hungarian citizens and taxpayers who will have to stand up for your theft. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-03-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Speaking your thoughts in a theatrical way in the pre-meeting section and using provocative expressions doesn't mean you're right. It should be noted that the speech we have just heard is difficult to interpret in two respects. One is that they have already received answers and clear information on the same subject on several occasions. The question is, indeed, that we need to continue to address this issue, but I will of course respond to your question. It's hard to interpret from another point of view. On the one hand, it is difficult to understand because, as we have heard, you have said from your mouth that you should only be informed about the answer you received from Secretary of State Vitalos, that you should see how the money is used, accounted for, and in that case you would not be able to formulate such questions. Then, thirdly, it is difficult to interpret because this speech was made from Jobbik's ranks, and we were questioned by Jobbik about the management of money and the use of money. [[György Szilágyi: 600 billion HUF!]] From Jobbik, which has abused its support from taxpayers' money, then its own electorate support and also its own voter confidence. [[9.30]] What I'm talking about, I'd like to explain in more detail. It is well known that the State Court of Auditors, when examining Jobbik's management, has discovered serious irregularities and infringements; it is not, therefore, some sort of air-borne thought, such as what you said, but findings. The SAO concluded that Jobbik did not justify its transparent and eligible management of public funds. He also stated that their party had accepted a prohibited financial contribution, because Lajos Simicska and his companies provided a covert support to Jobbik by providing the party with the possibility of posting political posters under the advertising prices of the companies concerned. According to your investigation, a non-cash contribution of more than HUF 300 million was accepted. As Jobbik could not contradict the draft Court's report with credible evidence, the SAO requested the President of Jobbik to pay the fine of more than HUF 600 million in the course of the investigation. Honourable Congressman, It's an abuse of money, it's actually an infidel treatment. In addition to trying to disable the SAO's investigation on all grounds, they were involved in a serious corruption case. [[György Szilágyi intervenes: 600 billion HUF!]] Laws must be observed, Congressman, even if you shout. The laws must still be respected, the rules must be respected. If you don't do that, you'll eventually catch up with your destiny. This is clearly demonstrated by your story, Jobbik's story, as the voters confirmed on 8 April that they did not ask for corruption in opposition. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Really?"]] The ink wasn't even dry in the SAO's report. I'd like to continue when the next scandal came. They asked their supporters for help to pay the penalty imposed on their mates who were on the brink of bankruptcy. Their benefactors have added more than 100 million forints to save you, to save your party. And what did you do? All sponsorship donations were spent on the campaign, more important than the election victory, so the tributes due to you than compliance with legality. Thanks to the sanity of the voters, as I said, this did not happen. Once again, what's this if it's not the misappropriation of money? Were Jobbik's missteps, his illegal actions, intended to be paid to the voters? Giant payments through the party foundation, tens of millions of dollars in debt? How is that, honourable Member? [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Demagogy.]] Of course, I wouldn't want to leave your suggestion and suggestion unanswered, let me point out that all the thoughts you have expressed in your speech are mere speculation and suggestion. The facts which will be carried out by the investigating body in an investigation and may be established at the end of the investigation. In the meantime, I ask you, stick to the subject, stick to the facts, and not to make statements based on presumptions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, As I recall, no one from the pro-government benches, while Congressman was speaking, yelled at me. So I don't think there's any way to communicate with each other. I'm asking you to follow the rules. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Group on Dialogue, asked for a pre-meeting speech. How many returned to the country? National consultation on youth. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-03-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The response to my interpellation last week revealed that the government is unwilling to cooperate with the opposition parties on emigration and does not wish to set up a case-by-case committee to solve the problem. The government claims that more people came back to Hungary this year than the number of people who left the country, but no official statistics or estimates of the number of Hungarians or their intentions can be found anywhere. Therefore, it would be worth asking the stakeholders why they should come back or why they should stay home. One of the main reasons for emigration is that Hungarian wages are significantly below the wages of not only Western Europe, but also the wages of neighbouring countries. If you look at OECD statistics, the wages in the Czech Republic are 16 percent higher than in Hungary, but the wages are higher in Poland, Slovakia, not to mention Slovenia. In Mexico alone, wages are lower according to OECD statistics. I'm glad you're here, Mr Dömötör, because last time you told me to look at the budget and support it if I wanted to support the young people. I looked at the budget, so I didn't find much good in it for young people. Take the most important, education. Next year, the government wants to spend only 15 billion more on education compared to this year. This is very little, especially after spending the last eight years of education on an ongoing basis. For Hungary, it is important that future generations are increasingly prepared, smarter and able to compete mainly with workers from neighbouring countries. For this reason, the Dialogue in its budget amendment would add 290 billion to education by transferring sources of government communication, extraordinary government measures, the National Olympic Centre and public media. I, too, suggest to Mr Secretary of State that you support the budgetary amendments to the Dialogue if you support young people. However, it remains unclear how many people who, according to the government, have returned this year, where these data are available, and if there is such statistics, why it is not public. You have launched national consultations on a number of issues, consulted on immigration, terrorism, and stopped Brussels. They also consulted and consulted on the Soros plan for billions of forints. It is time to launch a consultation on the real issue affecting citizens. I suggest that the government launch a national consultation aimed at young people's problems, ask young people what the conditions are that would make them willing to stay home or return home. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-07-03-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-07-03-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that you acknowledge that consultation is a good way of asking for the views of citizens, young people, the elderly, the opinions of all Hungarian citizens. I'm only saying this separately because your party didn't always have that opinion. I am glad that we finally agree, and, by the way, every party in Hungary, every civil society organisation, including the government, has the opportunity to open consultations on any matter that you rightly think citizens are interested in. So I suggest you use this tool as well. Some things are worth recording about working abroad for young people. Young people across Europe live with the possibility of working abroad, not only in Hungary. And if we look at Hungary, we cannot even say that this thing has started in recent years. And it doesn't matter what the dynamics of working abroad are, because despite all the superficial and poignant opposition claims, the fact is that today there are actually more young people coming home to Hungary than the number of people leaving Hungary to work abroad. According to Eurostat data, for example, the difference in 2016 was nearly 5,000 people in the 18-30-year-old population. It doesn't matter where we stand in a regional comparison. Here statistics show that only the Czech Republic stands better in Eastern and Central Europe than we do, with more people from other countries going abroad to work in terms of regional proportions. I would also like to add that more people from several of the old EU Member States are going abroad than from Hungary, to put it this way. It is an important circumstance, honourable Member, that the government does not, of course, have a direct say in how a young person makes use of one of the fundamental rights of the EU, the freedom to work. However, we must make sure that those who decide to work in Hungary, whether they have worked abroad before, will find their calculation back home. This requires jobs, increasing wages, an expanding family support system, and security as a framework for all of this. If you look at the facts in addition to mandatory government congestion, you can easily conclude that we have taken important steps in these priority areas in recent years. This is true even if there is still work to be done. For example, youth unemployment has fallen by half compared to 2010. Wages are also a crucial issue in my opinion: Compared to 2010, they increased by 36 percent in Hungary, by 10 percent compared to last year. That's more than a month's pay. Family tax incentives also increased in January this year, and will increase again in January next year if the Parliament adopts the 2019 budget. [[9.40]] The home creation programme will continue. You know very well that young people should also be helped with the home creation programme. Now, this is the programme that left-wing governments have abolished after 2002. What is increasingly important is that Hungary is one of the safest countries in Europe, just as Budapest is well placed in this area, and this is an increasingly valuable aspect. Honourable Congressman, At the same time, the party he joined does not carry young people on his hands to put it this way. On the one hand, if I understand your proposals correctly, you want to introduce a multi-key tax and, on the other hand, you want to distribute free money, because that is basically the case with basic income. I mean, you'd like to draw on the fact that you'd be pushing out massive aids without any work, even though this idea has gone horribly wrong in Finland. Among many other things, the problem with these ideas is that they would put huge burdens on the very young people they often refer to. They would make them pay for practically bringing back the concept of a welfare society. What you're proposing would drown the energies of young generations. He would tell them that it is not worth working with double force, because the state will take the extra money and give it to people who don't even have to work. That's your suggestion. We have seen such an example in the time of left-wing governments, we have paid bitterly high prices for it, and we do not want this to happen again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda:. Why does the Government allow tens of thousands of areas left without environmental remediation to seriously endanger the quality of the environment and pose a risk to human health? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-07-03-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the change of regime, it was quite soon found that at previous industrial, military, MÁV and other sites there were remaining pollutants that were present or potentially serious risks to human health, the environment and nature. One of the reasons for this was that there was a more favourable environmental regulation, and here I am thinking of heavy industrial pollution, but there was a lack of knowledge and, not least, negligence or recklessness of profit. It is no coincidence that the national environmental remediation programme was launched as part of the national environmental programme in 1996. In these contaminated areas, substances were left in the barrels, buried in the ground, leaked into the soil and thus into groundwater, which, in particular, spread with water in the environment, pollinating our soils by wind for food production, for housing, and making our waters harmful to health. In addition to human health, the deterioration of the environment is also a threat to natural life. Most importantly, what needs to be done in these areas is clear: there is a need for remediation as soon as possible, because the cost of both risk and damage and remediation increases greatly as time progresses. It is therefore our fundamental national interest and responsibility to implement the programme, but it is also a European Union obligation. Under the EU Water Framework Directive, our task is to preserve or achieve the good ecological status of our waters, for which the implementation of the necessary remedial tasks is a prerequisite in all areas where the good condition of the waters is threatened. More than 35 thousand potentially contaminated areas were registered in the national environmental remediation programme established in 1996. However, only a few hundred areas of this have been fully compensated; if calculated, this is less than 1 percent. We know that damage relief costs a lot, but we need to learn that our actions have consequences. Experts estimate that about HUF 1 000 billion would be needed to mitigate health risks and direct risk damage across the country, but we see that the number of remedial procurements shows a decreasing trend. The authority will also check only on request, no continuous control. We thought that billions of EU grants would contribute directly or indirectly to speeding up the remedial programme, but this was not the case. Since the governance of Fidesz, the implementation of the national environmental remediation programme has stopped and has been removed from the priorities. Anything happens in this case only if the strong protests of the population and the local authorities force it to do so, such as in the case of the Budapest Chemical Works' Scented Road site, although it is not even there. The endangered areas include Gyömró. The factory of Pevdi in Gyömő started production in the 1950s and 1960s. In 1992, Pevdi Kft. was privatised, but at that time there was no provision for environmental issues, i.e. previous pollution, hundreds of tons of hazardous and non-dangerous waste left, in breach of existing legislation at the time. Thus, while production continued, the waste remained untreated. The local government requested support from the authorities, a solution that resulted in a partial result. Although the barrels have been moved, according to the report required by the government office, the complete exploration of the buried hazardous substances, further tests, the remediation of soil and contaminated groundwater are still pending. The government office is also aware that the area must be compensated, but it is powerless, and the new owner cannot afford it. And they can't expect help from the government. It would also be essential to prevent further pollution, which would be significantly facilitated by the introduction of a compulsory environmental liability insurance system. It doesn't make sense why this hasn't happened before. We expect the government to take the necessary steps to fast-track the implementation of the national remedial programme, and report from all of this to Parliament and the affected population by the end of the year. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-03-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and From the last century, intensive socialist large-scale and large-scale equipment and investments have left behind a heavy environmental burden. After the change of regime and the withdrawal of Soviet troops in 1996, as you mentioned, when the national environmental remediation programme was drawn up, 35-40 thousand potential sources of pollution and potentially contaminated areas were indeed included in the first survey, which was carried out using the knowledge and data available at that time. With the progress of the national inventory carried out using the methodology developed under the OCCP, the previously estimated number has been reduced by half due to official on-the-spot inspections. During the period 2002-2004, only 15 thousand potentially contaminated and contaminated areas have been included in the register in the CARINFO register established under the programme. The number of contaminated areas recorded by 2015 decreased by 1100 in the period of remediation initiated under the State's responsibility by launching portfolio fund programmes developed in accordance with government division of labour and following the implementation of the polluter-pays principle confirmed by the legislation in force. According to the latest information received from environmental authorities, 885 ongoing remedial authorities are being dealt with by public authorities, of which 131 were proposed for State involvement. One of the 885 ongoing cases, as the problem raised by the congresswoman, is the former Pevdi Vegyipari Kft. of Gyömrő. The issue of pollution is not unknown to environmental authorities, but it is not possible at present to consider failure to perform public tasks. The final official debtor is addressed to the undertaking using the territory and the case is under the ongoing official procedure. In the interior of Gyömrő the former Pevdi Vegyipari Kft. in a gardened residential area. has been involved in the manufacture of paint binders, epoxy resin and other chemical products and has caused contamination of the area. In 2004, following an environmental pollution caused by a tank break, the chemical industry was suspended by the authorities and the company was wound up in 2011. [[9.50]] A large amount of industrial waste and contaminated material remained in the manufacturing area, which was taken over by the new contractor in the new sales contract and took note of. The new owner, as I mentioned, started to eliminate environmental damage under the supervision of the environmental authority, transported hazardous industrial waste and carried out the site's remedial fact-finding investigations in 2012 with the involvement of an expert undertaking. Thus, it can be concluded that the surface area of contaminated groundwater is about 3.7 hectares, that the remediation procedure will require the cleaning of approximately 35 thousand cubic metres of contaminated soil and 1.6 hectares of groundwater. In the framework of the OCCP programme for the implementation of national surveys, registers and interventions to address identified risks, nearly 600 State-owned remediation measures have been implemented since 1996, using a budget of HUF 232 billion. In recent years, since 2010, the government has spent HUF 10-15 billion a year on public remediation tasks. In addition, EU funds have been used for effective remedial action in 23 known and already detected contaminated areas over the period 2010-14. For example, I do not mention Nyíregyháza, Rajka, Zirc, Taszár, Sármellék, Szolnok, Eger worth approximately HUF 39.3 billion. In the 2014-20 EU programming period, more than HUF 57 billion is available for long-awaited remedial tasks such as Szekszárd shooting water base, Esztergom Strázsa-hegy, Mezőhegyes, Peremarton, Berhida. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I would also like to say to the honourable Member that nearly HUF 111 billion has been spent by the government since 2010 to carry out this task. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-20	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, KDNP Group also submitted an address before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-21	Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps three years ago, this month, at the beginning of July, was the beginning of this huge invasion, which caused nearly 400 thousand people in Hungary to crumble and destroy in a few months, and they wanted a complete change in this country that would have been completely unacceptable to Hungarians and, you can see, to Europe. Shortly thereafter, the Hungarian government took clear steps to protect the borders, and the fence began to be built. We have also added that not only Hungary, the identity of the Hungarian people, but also the European identity must be preserved, and we have made it absolutely natural that those in distress should be helped, otherwise they should be on the road, and most importantly, because of the order of local help, where they come from, we should help them. At that time, European politicians and the Hungarian opposition responded to the steps of the government and the Hungarian people with invaluable criticism and an invaluable attack, and it must be said that they were all opposed, both by the Hungarian opposition and foreign politicians, to the policy that we had pursued. Let's see how the leaders of each country attacked us then and where they are now. The left-wing chancellor Werner Faymann Hungary's leadership was almost fascistized, his greatest idea was to build winged gates; he is no longer anywhere. The new Chancellor leads a completely different policy and stands up for Hungary. Matteo Renzi, also left-wing Prime Minister: Hungary's behaviour is unacceptable, threatened with withdrawal from EU funds, and is no longer there. He has a new Prime Minister in Italy, and the Minister of the Interior, Matteo Salvini, gives Hungary the full truth and pursues the policy that we have. Martin Schulz, President of the European Parliament, German Chancellor-designate, accused Hungary of cynicism, threatened to take the right to vote, threatened to take EU funds, and is no longer there. The Croatian Prime Minister, the Social Democratic Zolan Milanović, said: the Hungarian fence must be destroyed, and I told Prime Minister Orbán that in my name there is no need to defend Christianity, no need, thank you, said the former Croatian Social Democratic Prime Minister. He's gone now. Instead, the new government is protecting Croatia. The same was true of Victor Ponta, who also lived with a comparison like Faymann's colleague, and accused us of lying that Romania would treat migrants as human beings, not as Hungarians, who claim to be herding them with sticks and numbering them. Nowhere is Ponta, the current Romanian leadership is already pursuing a completely different policy. The fact is that the liberal left-wing opposition in Hungary has walked the same path and is now in Hungary, as it has hit Hungary in all international and domestic forums in the last three years. In international forums, he has turned against the Hungarian people, selling the country, let us say that he is a traitor. At home, they did not support the construction of the fence, they wanted to tear it down, I would continue to help György Soros's plan, they did not vote for the Stop Soros Act, they did not support the help of Christians in the Middle East, and they did not support their lives. Perhaps one more interesting sentence is how the opposition reacted. Bertalan Tóth, even then I do not know what capacity he expressed himself in, said: "Everyone knows that neither the Hungarian referendum nor the specialized politics will solve the refugee crisis. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, A few days ago in Brussels, what happened clearly confirmed the decision of the Hungarian people, clearly confirmed the decision and the right steps of Hungarian politics. It is therefore perfectly natural that the Christian Democratic People's Party will continue to defend the country, continue to defend Christian values and preserve European identity, but we will continue to support the task of helping persecuted Christians locally, and any programme that will be implemented either in Syria, Iraq or Lebanon. I thank all those who have supported this in recent years, and the opposition should look in the mirror. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As they themselves said this morning, and decide that they want to go to the same fate as their left-wing western European counterparts. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-22	Thank you, Congressman, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to burden the public with my radio listening experiences, but I would like to bring an example here, and there is a reason for that, because if someone was listening to the radio yesterday, they could listen to an interesting and strange interview with one of the heads of the MSZP, Tibor Szanyi. Tibor Szanyi talked about the fact that the MSZP has never supported, supported any resettlement quota, and was removed from the agenda three years ago anyway. You just kept your mouth shut. And depending on where the students listened to the radio broadcast, at this point many people could look at the ceiling, measuring that it did not break suddenly, because it would be easy to explain that Tibor Szanyi is simply uninformed that as a MEP, he does not read a newspaper or watch TV now, and I would not mention other lifestyle options. [[Noise in the lines of MSZP, Dialogue. The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, the picture is much more serious than that, because the fact is that Tibor Szanyi is doing what the MSZP has been doing for the past three years, knowingly and in a premeditated way, misdirects the Hungarian electorate, and unfortunately, there are quite a lot of Tibor Szanyi sitting on the left. Instead of listing a dozen examples of this now, I would just suggest that everyone look at what decision the European Parliament took on 16 November last year, look at the voting record, because it will see that the MSZP supported this proposal. [[10.00]] The MSZP voted in Brussels for the resettlement quota, the mandatory, maximum number of permanent resettlements, and, by the way, even the family reunifications were to be facilitated. After the 8th of April election, many hoped that the MSZP would finally face up to why it had run into a serious defeat for the third time, but few thought that facing it would end up trying to deny even the red stars from the sky after a few weeks. But as far as the statements of the MSZP are concerned from reality, it is clear, however, that the migration crisis will remain with us permanently, and even the European Commission thinks so, it is worth looking at the relevant resolutions. This is what Frontex, the EU Border Protection Agency, believes, believes that a million people are waiting to sail off the coast of Libya, and one and a half million immigrants from the region called the Horn of Africa would depart. Meanwhile, a new migration route is emerging in the Western Balkans, regardless of whether the Hungarian borders are protected by a fence. So, the migration crisis has to be dealt with permanently. [[A statement from the opposition.]] and under these circumstances, it is worth considering what we can expect from individual political actors. From the left, the fact is that it is not good, and it is the same for the foreign allies of the MSZP. For example, let's look at what happened in Spain. There's a left-wing government that doesn't even have a proper majority and what does it do? He did not do anything to ask citizens what they thought about the migration issue, there was no consultation, but instead there was a prospect of breaking down the border seal there, because, as they say, solidarity would be needed. They continue to force the distribution of immigrants, and interestingly argue that when a ship carrying immigrants arrives in Spain, it has not actually arrived in Spain, but in Europe, so they argue in favour of quota. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] And if that wasn't enough, they would also want financial punishment for countries that disagree. [[It's constant noise.]] Dear House, This shows that the political struggle is not over. For our part, we will not allow anyone to push the negative consequences of a failed policy, a failed migration policy, to ignore the European left, nor to ignore the Hungarian left. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: We're here for you!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition.]]
u2018-07-03-24	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Before we continue our work, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats quietly. The base noise is very high in the room, so it's hard to keep an eye on each other. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Erik Bánki, Mr President, asked for a pre-meeting address on the central budget for Hungary next year. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz fraction welcomed the government's budget, in particular the four key pillars of which one, perhaps the most important leg, is the strengthening of families. We can see from this budget that families will continue to grow in 2019, especially families with two children whose tax relief rates are up to HUF 40,000, thus doubling the rate of tax relief for families with two children in three years. In 2019 these families will receive 60,000 HUF more tax subsidies per year than they received in 2018. Overall, there is a higher amount of HUF 242 billion available to support families, to support families' home creation, and this amount will, of course, grow next year compared to the previous year, our goal and our intention is that every family that wants to create a home for themselves. We also support the founders of the family separately, including the system of tax relief for newlyweds, the three-year-old child or the ged extra. The government will also provide free meals and free textbooks for hundreds of thousands of children next year. The kindergarten, kindergarten and school development programmes continue, with HUF 10 billion available for the development of family-friendly obstetrics. Economic and physical security is also a very important leg of next year's budget. We continue economic development as a third pillar, maintaining economic growth, with a 4.1 percent increase in GDP in the 2019 budget, which, I think, is not surprising, since in the last five years, GDP has increased by more than 4 percent in Hungary. This year's first quarter was outstanding, since in the first quarter of 2018 the gross domestic product increased by 4.8 percent compared to the previous annual period, which reached a uniquely high level in the last five years. Let us look at the opposition's position on the budget and how it behaves in relation to its various proposals. Not surprisingly, the opposition, as it has done so, is not in favour of Hungarian families, as it does not support the measures of the budget aimed at improving the safety and livelihood of Hungarian families and creating better, better living conditions. Nor is it supported that during the period of government... those who did not support these measures, who, during their own government, did not give but took away from families, took away from them the benefits that had already been paid, took not only from civil servants and civil servants, but also from pensioners, lost jobs in Hungarian families, lost jobs in 2010 because of socialist-free democratic governance, where not only did their work have to be lived on less wages, but also by total insecurity in Hungarian society. Compared to this, we believe that with these measures, which will be included in the budget for next year, we can further increase the standard of living of Hungarian people in Hungary. If it had been up to them, i.e. the opposition parties, the job creation measures that have created 755 thousand new jobs over the last seven years could not have taken place. You may remember, fellow Members, who were sitting in Parliament's seats in 2010, that when Viktor Orbán spoke about his Prime Minister's speech and mentioned among the key and outstanding goals of his government that the government was creating a million new jobs in Hungary in ten years, there were loud voices from the opposition benches, because the opposition representatives, instead of taking it seriously that one of the most important things for Hungary, the Hungarian people, besides their safety, were to have jobs, you laughed at them and said that they were inconvenient objectives. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, it is clear to you today that with 755 000 jobs we have kept the promise that we made in 2010, we have created these jobs on a pro rata basis, and even if we increase employment in Hungary at this rate, as it has been in the past and this year, then by 2019, ladies and gentlemen, we will achieve full employment. And to protect Hungary against Brussels, as we have already done, the government will continue to stand consistently in order to ensure that no euro cents can be taken from Hungary for the next seven years of development because Hungary is on the party of the Hungarian people, Hungary is the first, and Hungary's Government, the Hungarian Parliament's Fidesz and KDNP representatives, with their vote, support the government in everything that protects Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-26	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-27	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's 2019 budget is a budget for safe growth. During the planning process, the government focused on maintaining Hungary's security, maintaining economic growth on a broad basis, supporting families and achieving full employment. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the question here among myself, what has led the Hungarian government to present such a secure, predictable, transparent, risk-free budget to the Parliament in 2019, starting its third term. Let me have a look back at what the government has done to get here, not a crisis, not unemployment, not an increase in budget deficits, not an increase in debt, but, on the contrary, that the country has a stable economy (Continuous noise). The president's ringing the bell. ), has a stable budget, and people can count on the government, the approved budget. [[10.10]] Looking back, the government's first high-profile decision was to cut overhead costs, stop the increase in overhead costs and freeze them. It is history now, so let us remember what kind of debate this has triggered. I think it was the beginning of making families safe. The other is a relevant and intended decision and step to overcome the foreign exchange credit crisis. This affected more than a million families in Hungary, the crisis lasted for years, and it took years for 70 percent of the loans to be denominated in foreign currency in 2009, with 1 percent of foreign currency loans today, and thus we saved nearly one million families from total destruction and bankruptcy. This is also what it took to talk about today that Hungary has a budget with a safe growth. What led to the fact that, while in 2010, when the government took over, there was 12 percent unemployment, today the rate is 3.7 percent, which actually means that there is no longer unemployment in Hungary, but we need to talk about a shortage of labour? How was this government able to achieve it? [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In order for unemployment to be a labour shortage in Hungary, that 750,000 people have new jobs, that in essence a small proportion of people in Hungary can earn a living not from aid, but from wages and income? How could the government achieve that incomes have been steadily increasing for almost five years, in the last year there has been a 10 percent increase in real wages, and this is how we started the first quarter of 2018? Here I would mention the six-year wage agreement in November 2016, which gave a significant boost to the economy and to the rise in Hungarian people's income. How could the government achieve that, in addition to reducing taxes and taxes, there is still more revenue in the budget and more revenue for people to organise public services? I think that when we talk about taking a step forward in all areas with regard to the 2019 budget, we should look back and recognise the government's work and government economic policy of the last eight years, because what created it was that we could talk about secure economic growth, sustainable growth, which means that the average of the European Union has been above economic growth in Hungary for several years now. In order to talk about this, Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families had to do hard work, but thank God, this is the result. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-28	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. According to our schedule, we will continue our work at 10:15 p.m. with decisions. I am now ordering a pause of one and a half minutes by asking my fellow Members with due respect to remain in their seats, because we cannot begin the decision before, starting at exactly 15 o'clock. I ask for your understanding and patience. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Once you've taken your place, we'll begin our work. Dear Parliament, The Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kazak on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals holding diplomatic and service passports and the T/473 on the publication of the Protocol signed in Budapest on 28 February 2018 amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Kazak on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals holding diplomatic and service passports. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/473/6. T473/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/473/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes to one, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/473/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 140 votes in favour, no votes against, with 25 abstentions. It follows from the publication of the T/400 Protocol to the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/400/6. T/400/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/400/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the summary amendment by 165 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/400/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal by 166 votes in favour. The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. T/406 on the amendment of Act T/406 on the regulation of the construction of high-rise buildings Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/406/8. T/406/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/406/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes to 53, with 1 abstention. [[10.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/406/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes to 54, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now continuing our work with general debates. With all due respect, my fellow Members, who wish to leave the Chamber now because of an urgent public task, do so quietly and, if possible, in a short time. Thank you for your understanding. And if you take your seats, we'll continue our work. My fellow Members, please take your seats. Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate between the World Tourism Organisation and the Government of Hungary on the draft law on the announcement of the World Tourism Day Agreement in Budapest until its closure. The government referral is T/704. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. [[Noise.]] Before you begin your expedition, Mr Secretary, I would like to ask my fellow Members once again with respect, please take their seats, or anyone who wishes to leave the room should do so as soon as possible and as quietly as possible. Thank you for your understanding. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The World Tourism Organization is the most important global institution in the field of tourism, and has been an active member of Hungary since 1975. The organisation's task is to assist international tourism cooperation, to provide data collection and communication, and to outline trends. The World Tourism Day is the date of adoption of the statutes of the World Organisation, the 27th September of each year. World Tourism Day is a global event, but its central event is hosted every year by a designated Member State. At the central event, government actors in tourism, authorities managing the sector, agencies and leading economic operators meet at a large-scale conference to present key trends, trends and to develop industrial and governmental relations, and to achieve even more effective international cooperation. Hungary has successfully applied for the 2018 World Tourism Day in 2017, so with the Budapest event it will be hosted again by the European country after the Maldives, Mexico, Thailand and Qatar in 2012. It is necessary to conclude an agreement between Hungary and the World Tourism Organisation on the organisation of a central event and related issues such as the diplomatic privileges and immunity of representatives of the world organisation and other important issues of organisation. In view of the fact that the agreement provides for an exemption from jurisdiction for members of the world organisation and its staff in relation to the activities of the world day, and the granting of diplomatic immunity is a legislative matter, the agreement as an international contract falling within the competence and competence of the Parliament should be published by law. Thus, the direct purpose of this draft law is to grant the agreement and the authorisation to recognise the binding scope of the agreement, i.e. to strengthen its internal law. The first part of the Agreement extends to the staff of the World Organisation the Convention of 21 November 1947 on the Privileges and immunities of the Specialised Institutions of the United Nations already ratified and proclaimed by Hungary. The second part of the agreement settles the fundamental issues surrounding the conduct of the World Tourism Day, such as the date, the security requirements, the settlement of disputes and the rules on compensation. The agreement indicates that the detailed arrangements will then be settled by the parties in supplementary agreements which are not international contracts. The Agreement shall enter into force on the 15th day following the date on which the list of ratifications is sent. In view of the fact that the Agreement should enter into force at the beginning of September in order to hold World Tourism Day on 27 September, it is of the utmost importance that it be adopted by the Parliament at its current session. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/704. Please support bill number 1. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2018-07-03-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Parage!]] The growth in Hungarian tourism and hotel industry has been steady for six years, and the expansion is around 10% or more each year. The number of guest nights reached the total number of 2016 in November last year, and by the end of the year it exceeded it by 7 percent, reaching close to 30 million. In Budapest, traffic increased even more, they spent a third of all the guest nights in the capital, crossing the psychological limit of 10 million. Hotel revenues increased by 17 percent last year. The number of British, Czech, Polish, Russian and American visitors has practically doubled since 2010, and Chinese and Korean guests have doubled by five times. The number of guest nights in the same period increased by one and a half times, while the sales of commercial accommodations increased by more than double. This year there will be significant tourist developments throughout the country. A total of HUF 10 billion is available for the development of world heritage sites. Development starts in Hollókő and Pannonhalmán, the renovation of the Szigliget Castle is completed, the development of Hortobágy from 3 billion HUF sources is started, Esztergom is renewed. A dozen adventure parks near Lake Tisza and the Danube turn are being modernised, and I could tell you more. In order for growth to last and not to decrease its pace, quality improvements are needed, such as the Kisfaludy programme, the largest tourism development programme of all time. [[10.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear from all of this that tourism is the leading sector of the Hungarian economy, which is managed accordingly by the government. Hungary and Budapest are now more attractive than ever, thanks to significant public and municipal investments in recent years. This is why it is of great importance that Hungary has successfully applied for the World Tourism Day, so it will take place in Budapest this year. This brings attention to Hungary at international level and gives us the opportunity to present our tourist results and plans. The adoption of the bill we are discussing now is necessary in order to achieve this smoothly, and I therefore ask for your support. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-07-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great pleasure for Jobbik that Budapest can host the World Tourism Day in 2018 on the basis of the 2017 competition. We have heard from the rapporteur that his application was made in 2017. I have been looking for the lines in the 2018 budget to find out how much it costs to organise this event for Hungary, and unfortunately I couldn't find it, so I hope that we will also receive information about this, because a reference to the agreement, which is included in the bill, will be made to the fact that the exact contribution will be recorded in an additional agreement, so that this world day will be celebrated here in a worthy manner, and this conference should not only be an international view of tourism, but also of the professional organisations associated with it. As we have heard before, this driving sector, tourism, is very important for Hungary, because the tourism sector directly accounts for 6.4 percent of GDP and, indirectly, more than 10 percent of GDP, and no less than 412 thousand people who work indirectly in this sector, also help those in Hungary to enjoy this world tourism day in an international perspective. I trust that the event on September 27 can be another spring point for Hungary and will place Hungary and Budapest more, but we trust that the other tourist destinations, such as Lake Balaton, will make it right, and more people will visit our country, and the world will expand even more for everyone who attend this conference, and there will be additional night stretches in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-07-03-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-07-03-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I think that in recent years we have seen the high places Hungary has indicated as a tourist destination, the outstanding results Budapest has achieved, or what progress has been made in the TripAdvisor website as a major tourist destination in the Parliament building. What has contributed to Hungary's global tourism day? Tourism, as has already been said, makes a significant contribution to economic recovery and job creation in Hungary. According to KSH data, tourism's direct contribution to the economy is 6.4 percent of GDP and the contribution including indirect effects, as my fellow Member said, was 10.3 percent last year. The number of jobs in tourism sectors is 412 thousand, tourism directly generated 10 percent of jobs, and tourism accounts for 13 percent of employment in the national economy, including indirect effects. According to the data of the Hungarian National Bank, in 2017 the international travels generated EUR 5.5 billion in foreign exchange revenues, 7 percent more than in 2016. As the amount spent by Hungarians abroad is less than this, tourism has improved the balance of payments by EUR 3.3 billion in 2017. The performance of tourism has been a record year after year in Hungary since 2010, and 2017 has been the best tourism year ever. During the year, the number of guests using the commercial accommodation was 11.9 million, nearly 12 million, and the nights they spent, as we have heard, were nearly 30 million nights. The number of guest nights registered in 2017 increased by 52.2 percent compared to the figures recorded in 2010, due to both domestic 49.2 percent and foreign 55.4 percent increase. In 2017, the gross accommodation revenues of commercial accommodations amounted to HUF 277.9 bn, and increased more dynamically than guest nights, with 16.8 percent compared to 2016. 89 percent of the total accommodation income of commercial accommodations was generated in hotels. In addition to accommodation revenues, commercial accommodations also realised revenues from HUF 92 billion gross catering and HUF 97 billion other services in 2017. Thus, over HUF 466 billion of gross income was generated in commercial accommodation. Thus, we can say that there is an 114.5 percent increase in accommodation revenues compared to 2010. Foreigners spent 116.4 percent and domestics 111.5 percent more on accommodation fees. The growth of tourism in Hungary continues steadily in 2018. According to the latest preliminary data of KSH, the number of guests using the commercial accommodation in the period January-March 2018 increased by 11.2 percent and the number of nights they spent increased by 10.8 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. 2.2 million guests spent 5.1 million guest nights in commercial accommodations. So even compared to the best tourism year of all time, we can see an 11 percent increase this year. In the first quarter of 2018, the gross accommodation revenues of commercial accommodation amounted to HUF 46.7 billion, while the number of guest nights increased more dynamically. Taking into account the revenues from catering and other services, a total gross income of HUF 86.2 billion was generated in commercial accommodation. So it can be said that the number of domestic guests in 2017 was 6.2 million, with the number of guest nights they spent at 14.8 million nights. As a result of the continuous increase from 2009 onwards, the number of domestic nights registered in 2017 was 49.2 percent higher than in 2010. It is clear and clear that this is due to the significant increase in wages that we have witnessed in recent years, as more and more citizens, our countrymen, can afford to relax in different hotels. For Hungary, the present World Tourism Day in Budapest on 27 September 2018 and the central event of 2018 are particularly valuable in Budapest. On the one hand, we welcome the fact that this event can be held again in Europe and we welcome the fact that this event can be held in Budapest, as domestic tourism actors and domestic destinations also have the opportunity to introduce themselves to the international community of experts, to establish different professional relationships and to share knowledge with related tourism infocommunication companies. The Budapest design strengthens the image of Hungary and Budapest as a safe and attractive tourist destination, which is easily accessible from all parts of the world, offering advanced infrastructure and world-class services to tourists and, of course, the participants of the conference. In this agreement, Hungary grants members of the World Tourism Organisation and its staff different privileges and immunities, like the international treaties on the organisation of international conferences. It is a great pleasure for us that the world day will be held in Budapest, so the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[10.40]]
u2018-07-03-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-07-03-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with those previous speakers who have presented tourism as a key sector, it is very important for tourism, for the development of the sector in terms of GDP and for Hungary's international perception. So to sum up: the possibility of directing is also a very important opportunity for Hungary, and we consider it a very important success. Obviously, the speakers who spoke before me forgot to mention it, but I would say that this was also an inexorable merit for István Ujhelyi MEP, who, as Chairman of the Tourism Sub-Committee of the Committee on Transport of the European Parliament, has done a great deal to ensure that this event can take place here in Hungary. Obviously, technical information on this framework agreement has been mentioned, and I do not think it is essential to repeat them, but, like international treaties, it is important to adopt them in connection with such an event. However, I would like to ask you a few questions, which relate primarily to the circumstances and costs of the settlement, which is why I am still waiting here for answers from the Secretary of State. First of all, how much is the organisation of the international event in Budapest? On the other hand, how much do you intend to provide for this from budgetary resources? Thirdly, which companies have used the possibility of external sponsorship opened by point 13 of the agreement so far? Fourthly, the actors of domestic tourism support this event and, if so, to what extent? And my fifth question is what substantial growth is expected in the tourism sector thanks to this event, so what precise figures are expected in this respect. Once again, we consider the settlement itself and the opportunity important, a very important politician has done a lot to enable Budapest, Hungary to organise this event, but I also think it is very important that the answers to my questions in this debate are also addressed in terms of calming citizens and taxpayers. Secretary of State, I look forward to your answers. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches if you wish to do so. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. It is now time for the speeches by the Members who have been notified in writing. I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group. He's not in. Ladies and gentlemen, Then the congresswoman will take the opportunity later on. Other representatives of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I will be honest: I did not prepare for a long speech in this debate, and if the pro-government keynote speakers had not otherwise overshadowed the framework of the general debate, they would not have forced the opponents to respond, because they were not talking about the subject of starting to praise the achievements of Hungarian tourism in billions, if appropriate, to exalt it, which I can identify with, that I am very keen on Hungarian tourism and at all for the companies with Hungarian interests to achieve their success. I am so rooting for them that I draw attention to the point at which this government hinders their success. And how this is so, it is no coincidence that we have participated in several professional discussions on the subject where we have struggled to find ways to prevent the government's obstructive moves on this subject. I'll tell you what I'm talking about: by June 2017 the airbnb offer in Pest, i.e. the supply of online accommodation sharing systems, almost reached the capacity of hotels, so there was only 1-2 000 difference between hotel capacity and the capacity offered by Airbnb. It is not difficult to figure out that the income taken by apartments, rooms and real estate in the unregulated environment, on online accommodation sharing sites is partly missing from the Hungarian family pensiones, partly missing from the Hungarian rental market in the form of a supply, and the result of which, surprisingly, the government is still not willing to do anything about, is the brutal explosion of rent prices in Budapest, Budapest and metropolitan and metropolitan city, a brutal price explosion. So I am very pleased that you can speak not only about the results of tourism, but also about the real results, but also about the capacity to accommodate 45 thousand people in Budapest, while the number of seats offered on various unregulated, online accommodation-sharing sites has increased to 42.5 thousand, which are typically used. And the rent boom led to the fact that a Hungarian youth today cannot start his life with his partner in the capital, without the support of the family, is in an impossible position, and that is why he often chooses to emigration. I can see that this is affecting my fellow Member with the element of surprise, but I would say that if you were to regulate this area and not live with a club as rude as Uber, you would not ban it in the 21st century. The achievements of the century, which you do not understand, but perhaps to sit at a negotiating table with those involved who understand this system, finding common solutions. I would also suggest that you have one option: it would be that the persons concerned, who work on accommodation and various sharing portals would be exempted from further protection or regulatory measures by paying a flat rate each year, i.e. a flat rate of one or two or a few thousand forints/rooms, but at the same time the revenue would be measurable in the budget, so this system would be approaching public burdens. The worst part is that even in the case of such a one-time event, which I am very pleased to see you come to Hungary and you will be kept here, even here, you will appreciate the results of tourism, which are not the results of the government; these are typically the results of Hungarian businesses. I would like to note that the number of guest nights in the hotel market in Budapest, the composition of the number of Hungarian interests, and how much, let's say, in the interests of foreign chains, is very surprising. In addition to the appreciation of the results of tourism, it would be expected that at least the minimum level of intervention in the market areas or economic areas which otherwise undermine this should be taken into account and, let us say, in Article XXI. They have basic responses to the achievements of the century or to the sharing economy, as these problems will come back. First came Uber on the taxi front, now it's Airbnb, which is also an unregulated area. As Article 21 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 is amended as follows: We live in the century, typically the achievements of this will come to light, and if this government does not understand them, has no modern answers to these questions, then it will certainly face these dilemmas in order. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2018-07-03-41	[[He doesn't use his microphone.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, [[For signal:]] Yeah, the tweezers, yeah. Let's start over. [[He's gonna get his microphone hooked up.]]
u2018-07-03-42	The congresswoman has a 15-minute timeframe.
u2018-07-03-43	Thank you very much. Let's start over. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, As part of my speech concerns Hungary's image of itself to the world, let me welcome two politicians who have done a great deal for our country's favourable judgment: László Kovács, our former party president and Iván Vitányi are celebrating his birthday today. László Kovács served as Foreign Minister and EU Commissioner to make Hungary's reputation better, and Iván Vitányi showed that there is a human-faced policy based on service. I wish you both a happy birthday. And now, after a detour, if I may, Mr President, I would like to explain to you what the Hungarian Socialist Party thinks about why, at the 22nd meeting of the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization, Hungary has decided to host the next World Tourism Day. [[10.50]] World Tourism Day has been held every year in a different country since 1990. This is an important meeting of the international tourism profession as a special event of the year. It is a huge achievement, a huge prestige, that on 27 September 2018, our country will be the centre of the world's tourism by organising this event. But it didn't just happen for a reason. I would like to thank the two countrymen who proposed the site in Budapest for this success, and they have done much to make this a reality. One of them was Zoltán Somogyi, Deputy Secretary General of UNWTO, Secretary of State for Tourism of the MSZP Governments, then our Ambassador to Montenegro, and he was in this position for ten years. The other proposer, who also worked a lot, was their vice-president, István Ujhelyi, who is now the president of the tourism subcommittee of the European Parliament's Committee on Transport, as MEP. I think that's not why they did it, but we should thank both of them. The main topic of the Budapest event is extremely topical, thanks for the choice of topic: tourism and digital transformation. I think that the Hungarian tourism sector, but the whole Hungarian economy can only benefit from this. At the same time, there are some circumstances that urge caution; for example, the framework agreement between the Fidesz government and the World Tourism Organisation, which deals with the conditions under which a meeting can be held in Budapest. According to point 10 of the Agreement, the Government shall provide staff, offices, assets to the World Organisation, as set out in the Additional Agreement under paragraph 16. However, point 16 is merely about the conclusion by the Government and the World Organisation of supplementary agreements for the purpose of implementing this Agreement. Unfortunately, we do not know how much this event will actually cost Hungarian taxpayers. The Fidesz government's quiet about this. Unfortunately, we have seen and experienced many times that there is no good purpose in which Fidesz does not find the possibility of a withdrawal. If anyone, we know that the organisation of the World Tourism Day in Budapest is particularly valuable, as it also creates great opportunities for domestic tourism to introduce themselves and, of course, to establish professional relations. However, the question arises as to how much of this benefits the catering industry has been particularly active recently with Lőrinc Mészáros or Rachel Orbán, who is particularly interested in tourism. Many people have worked very hard to thank Hungary for this event, and this event is for the benefit of the Hungarian people. We would like the Fidesz government to make the costs of organising the World Tourism Day as transparent as possible, ensuring that they do not classify it as one of their own small-scale private dogs. The MSZP not only supports the world tourism day in Budapest, but also has done a great deal to create it through Zoltán Somogyi and István Ujhelyi. We believe that this event is a joint matter of Hungary, which cannot be mastered by any Fidesz interest group. Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the MSZP will only be able to support the bill for the publication of the agreement if the government provides a clear answer to the following questions. How much is the organisation of the international event in Budapest? How much do you want to spend on this from the budget? Which companies have lived and planned to make use of the possibility of external sponsorship opened by point 13 of the Agreement? Do the actors of domestic tourism support the event and, if so, to what extent? Thanks to the event, what substantial growth is expected in the tourism sector? If we get clear and reassuring answers to these questions, we will, of course, vote in favour of the bill to announce the agreement. But if the government continues to keep secrets and refuses to make the costs transparent, then the MSZP is not expected to assist in another Fidesz money drain. We trust that the World Tourism Day, for which we have done so much, will not only benefit Lőrinc Mészáros and Rachel Orbán, but Hungary, indeed, the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-44	Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group.
u2018-07-03-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I didn't want to comment either, but I was moved by my better fellow Member's speech to say two sentences. I believe that the framework for the general debate is not to be stretched by us when we talk about the results of tourism, but by you when you talk about rent prices, emigration and other matters when you discuss the bill on World Tourism Day. Airbnb, like all revenue-gathering activities, is regulated as revenue-gathering activities. And the fact is, my fellow Member, that we are pleased that the residents of Budapest are able to take their share of the success that will enable Budapest's tourism development, development, and the residents of Budapest to take part in this; for example, if the condominiums agree, they will be able to offer online accommodation for the purpose of accommodation creation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2018-07-03-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on our agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said. [[Tamás Menczer: Yes.]] Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-47	Thank you very much, Mr President, just a few sentences. I understand from the speeches that basically everyone is in favour of organising the World Tourism Day in Hungary. I'd like to thank you for that. At the same time, of course, I would like to thank everyone, whether within the walls of this House or elsewhere, for supporting the organisation of the World Tourism Day in Hungary, but I do not want to overdimension the role of MSZP colleagues on this issue. I almost had strange feelings here during the speeches. As far as the withdrawal is concerned, I would like to respond with a half sentence to Mrs Gurmai in the respect of the fact that, in the colours of the party in which you are political, I would, however, be more modest on this subject. As regards Mr Z. Kárpát's speech: here we have heard things that should be considered professionally, which is worth thinking about, but his claim that the results of Hungarian tourism have nothing to do with the government's lack of involvement in the recovery of internal demand, in any case I dispute or disagree with him, and I would like to reject him. As regards funding, interested representatives will be informed in writing today by the Ministry. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-48	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows that Act I of 2004 on Sport and Act CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, on public benefit status and on the functioning and support of civil society organisations. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Presentation by Fidesz MEPs Erik Bánki and Csaba Nagy T/712. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-49	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, T/712. Act I of 2004 on sport and Act CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. contains an amendment to the Act. Law No 36-37 of 2004 on sport In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Treaty, the right to authorise, by means of television, radio and other electronic, digital techniques, sports activities, sports competitions and their commercial exploitation, including advertising and marketing rights, as well as the publication, organisation and conduct of the competition system constitutes a right of property. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The rights relating to sport activities are vested in the sports organisation, the prize rights relating to the matches, competitions and the launch, organisation and execution of the competition system, including the sports association in relation to the matches, competitions and the licensing of online betting in competition systems. The sports association shall be entitled to provide in its rules of competition that it has issued and organised for a certain period of time for the exercise of the members of the sports organisation's rights of value, and the contract for sale shall be concluded by the sports association with the user. [[11.00]] Dear House, The bill primarily seeks to amend the provision of broadcasting rights, which is of the greatest value of property rights. The current rules, taking into account that the design of the championship and its related professional and administrative tasks, as well as the management of the competition, are the responsibility of the associations, are therefore installing asset rights in relation to the whole of the championship. However, in many cases this creates a monopoly, and the sports association not only includes broadcasting rights related to the championship, but also other sporting events. The purpose of the bill is to make clear that sports organisations are entitled to the right of property in connection with the broadcasting of sports activities, sports competitions and sporting events. To this end, on the basis of the bill, contracts relating to the broadcasting of sports activities, sports competitions and sporting events which are not or cannot be committed by the sports association in football sport will cease to apply on 30 September 2018 and the rights of mediation will be returned to the sports organisation in return for compensation, unless the rights are held by the sports association. In relation to compensation, the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the operation and support of civil society organisations. In the absence of agreement between the parties, the amount of compensation shall be determined by the court competent at the seat of the sports organisation on the basis of its fair market value at the time the rights are restored. According to the bill, another element of the amendment to the sport law relates to the arbitration procedure. According to the bill, sports organisations can only deal in disputes with a permanent and ad hoc court by means of the Sport Permanent Arbitration Court or by a Swiss-based court. The bill thus ensures that only chosen courts specialised in sports matters can act in sports organisations. It shall also apply to disputes arising from contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of the amendment. In addition to the above, the bill also contains codification, technical and text-focusing amendments based on practical experience. Ladies and gentlemen, Please make T/712. Please discuss the bill submitted and support it during the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó, has a few thoughts. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2018-07-03-51	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to say that Hungary is living today in the golden age of sport. After all, the government, treating sport as a strategic sector over the last two government cycles, has brought about fundamental changes in the sport sector that have never been seen before. Despite the fact that sport is a common value-bearing area for the Hungarian nation, but also in the world, which has an extraordinary positive impact on society, the economy and the various sectors, it should therefore be strongly supported. The instruments needed to achieve this need to be provided with parliamentary, governmental and civil incentives. Since the change of regime, no government has made such significant progress in the financing of domestic sport as the government of national cooperation. Let us consider a significant increase in the central budget support for sport and the involvement and transfer of resources within the public finances sub-schemes. Our aim in the field of sport is to maintain and enhance the effectiveness of competition sport, to ensure that all children play sports and that we can provide the best sports facilities for the broadest possible part of society. In addition, infrastructure development will enable us to host as many prestigious international sporting events as possible. Within these, special attention will be paid to further improving the health of the population, increasing the number of regular athletes and providing a wide range of opportunities for children to play sports. To this end, in the next year's budget, we will continue to give priority to leading sports, training, student and leisure sports, sports for disabled people, sports infrastructure development and the organisation of international sporting events in Hungary. With the amendment of the Sports Act in force from 1 January 2017, we introduced a direct financing system that made the provision of State aid for sport, such as public funding, even more predictable and professionally coordinated. As a result of the amendment, we provide state resources directly to the federal level, thus making its use more transparent and efficient. The government therefore considers the promotion of sport and its health-conscious lifestyle a useful and profitable social investment. Thanks to these government measures, sport organisations can operate in European conditions and at an increasing level. Accordingly, the Hungarian sport is indeed a golden age, since sports associations and sports organisations can only deal with professional work and the development strategy of their sport with the help of the established funding system and the established governance structure. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/712. Act I of 2004 on sport and CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. A bill amending the law follows this trend and strengthens the economic independence of clubs by clearly settling the situation of their property rights. Under the Sports Act, the licensing of sports activities, sports competitions, matches with television, radio and other electronic, digital techniques such as the Internet and their commercial exploitation, including advertising and marketing rights, constitutes property rights. The bill seeks to resolve the situation relating to these property rights, without prejudice to the powers of the sports associations. In conclusion, the objective of the amendment submitted is to establish clearly that sports organisations are entitled to the rights of property associated with the broadcasting of sports activities, sports competitions and sporting events. In addition, this bill also amends the rules of arbitration in sport-related matters and promotes stronger and stronger professional aspects. According to the proposal, sport organisations will be entitled to disputes in the future solely for sport, i.e. the Permanent Arbitration Court for Sport and the Swiss-based CAS, and no other permanent or ad hoc arbitration court will be entitled to act. With this amendment, we want to ensure that only elected courts, forums and professionals with sufficient experience and knowledge in the field of law, which are specifically specialised in sports matters and possible disputes in sport organisations, can act. This will also enable the development of consistent case-law in the field of sport. On this basis, the amendments proposed by the Members agree with the Government, on the basis of which I also request the support of this House on behalf of the Government, with the support of the Government, for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-52	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Here are the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Robert Simon. You have the floor, please. [[11.10]]
u2018-07-03-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! The 2004 Act I on Sport, presented by our fellow Members Erik Bánki and Csaba Nagy, and the 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations, which we have just discussed. The bill amends the sport law in several provisions and for several reasons. The bill primarily seeks to amend the provision of broadcasting rights, which is of the greatest value of property rights. The purpose of the proposal is to establish clearly that sports organisations are entitled to the right of property in connection with the broadcasting of sports activities, sports competitions and sporting events. To this end, in the field of football under the bill, contracts relating to the broadcasting of sports activities, sports competitions and sporting events which are not or cannot be committed by the sports association will cease to apply on 30 September 2018 and the rights of mediation will be returned to sports organisations in return for compensation. Another element of the proposal concerns the arbitration procedure. According to the bill, only the Permanent Arbitration Court of Sport and the permanent arbitration of sports based in Switzerland are entitled to take action in disputes of sports organisations, and no other permanent or ad hoc arbitration is permitted. The proposal thus ensures that sports organisations are only subject to special arbitrations specialised in sports matters. It shall also apply to disputes arising from contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, thanks to the successful sports policy of the Hungarian government, sports organisations can operate under increasingly improved conditions and at an increasing level. The proposed amendment aims to help the economic independence of clubs and to make their economic activity and management even more efficient by using their wealth rights, in line with and strengthening this direction. As the lead speaker of Fidesz, our faction will support the proposed bill. I would also ask the representatives of the other parties to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman, notary, the floor is yours.
u2018-07-03-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have heard a lot of things in the speeches we have heard so far. Madam Secretary of State told me about sports and the golden age of sport and its flowering age, and I also described myself as talking about infrastructure, residential sports, budgets, top sports, sporting events, financing systems and everything else. I understand you're talking about this, but this law has nothing to do with it. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] There is no such thing in this law. There was only one thing I was going to discuss, which had something to do with when the Secretary of State spoke about state resources. In principle, it would have to do with it in some indirect way, since both MTVA and MLSZ are trying to live and work together from public sources. I've noticed and I've had the feeling that in this bill, it's 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7. §s were brought in here in the first place so it wouldn't be so obvious that only 78/I. It's really about Section 3, that's what it's all about. After all, there are epochal changes in this amendment to the sport law, such as the 1st Amendment. §2 where a comma is left; or §2 In the section of the section, where there are detailed rules for doping prohibition and doping testing and instead of the sentence "doping testing" and for doping testing. Then the 4th. In this section, the word "controlling, regulating and controlling sport" has changed, which is very important in my view in the current bill. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Or the 5th. In the section, where the asset manager of the property is obliged to use the Olympic Centres for primary sports purposes, instead, we have now changed it, the asset manager of the property is obliged to use these centres for primary sports purposes. They're all, I see, and I feel my favorite, by the way, is 76/G, so 6. §, where in the list only the letters a, b, c, d were changed and spelled out with another character, and this is the essence of the change. So I think that these are absolutely unrelated to the flowering age of sport, which we have also heard from the Secretary of State here. But state resources and 78/I. is fully related to state resources. I have one more question for the Secretary of State, because you spoke about sport in television, radio and Internet broadcasting rights. In particular, he said that sports competitions or sports professional associations... are not sports professional associations, there is a sports professional association, the Hungarian Football Association, so this is not about the whole sport, it is about football, because it is clearly written down. What is the amendment of the law about which this was submitted? Actually, it's about a gentleman close to a government named Andy Vajna. This Andy Vajna operates certain televisions, and the TV2 group has a television called Spíler TV, which is still available in few places in Hungary, since it is not in many digital channels like Digi TV. This Speller TV is starting to expand. At the moment, this Spíler TV is saying that apart from the MotoGP tournaments and the Premier League, besides the English Championship, this year it has acquired the broadcasting rights of the Italian Class A and unfortunately also the Spanish La League. Thus, a significant part of the country will not be able to follow these events, because if it does not have a subscription at UPC, it will not be able to follow these races in other parts of the country, who do not have a UPC subscription. But Spíler TV won't stop here, because it probably needs NB I law, and the NB I matches will probably be running on this TV in the future, and in the next season and in the next tournament, the NB I matches will also be played by Spíler TV, who will probably be on this market as a single ruler with your help, and he will be broadcasting NB I matches. 'Cause what's happening now? What happens is that until 2021, the Hungarian Football Association has a contract with MTVA. Therefore, by 2021, the NB I football matches could be broadcast by MTVA, i.e. M4 Sport. Within the framework of the MTVA, these are specifically thematic programmes. You know, there's an M1 that only deals with migrants. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] There's the M4 that's been working on sports. I don't know what he's gonna broadcast now, because his main sports broadcast was the NBI football matches. They also have a contract, because the Hungarian Football Association, which also operates with state money and resources, paid for these broadcasting rights with the money of the Hungarian Football Association. From 2016 onwards, from 2016-17, the agreement to 2021 is in force. It would've been weird to break it open or race it again. It's hard to compete a living contract like that. Therefore, you probably have now come up with this bill, which is nothing more than what has already been the case, by the way, that the broadcasting rights are in the sports organisations. These sports organisations may allow the sports professional association, namely the Hungarian Football Federation, to assemble and sell these rights in a package by the Hungarian Football Association. It has been so, and it will continue to be so, because I believe that these rights will now return to sports organisations. The sports organisations will conclude a contract with the Hungarian Football Association to sell NB I rights in packages, and the Hungarian Football Association will consider that it will conclude a contract with Spíler TV. That's what it's all about, and so that MTVA can get a little more public money out of public money, and then MTVA gets a little compensation for not having this contract. [[11.20]] In my opinion, this is unacceptable, in this form, because this is not about the market. It's unacceptable because it seems to you once again that nothing is important but that your friends earn as much income as possible so that your friends can live in this country as much as possible. At the moment, they do not even care that most of the country will not be able to watch the Hungarian NB I matches, if Spíler TV will broadcast them. They don't care about that question. You don't care. Hungarian football is so important, in which over the past few years serious tens and hundreds of billions have been killed, that only two things have not been dealt with in recent years other than giving these serious tens and hundreds of billions to the sports associations, giving them to the Hungarian Football Federation and putting their own people in charge of the larger clubs. One thing they didn't care about was that the main two elements of football are football and spectators. First of all, the viewers were forced out of the stadium as they were, because you don't want the viewers, you don't need to say, in a football match, if the crowd doesn't like Viktor Orbán, then whistle it. It doesn't matter. The point is to have nice stadiums, because these stadiums can be built in a way that makes a lot of money for your friends. The fact that these stadiums can no longer be filled on a market basis by the association leaders appointed by you, because they no longer deal with the Merchandising rights they sell, how they deal with the fans, how they serve them, how high-quality football is in the country is of no interest. But now it doesn't matter to you that someone is watching these matches, let's say, at home. So it's not in the stadium, it's at home. The interesting thing is that Andy Vajna can run his Spíler TV as much as possible and become a single ruler, killing and strangling all other sports channels in Hungary. So I think that this should not be the way in which sport should be treated, nor should Hungarian football be treated, nor should Hungarian football be treated in this way, and, above all, this should not be the way in which the broadcasting royalties of matches should be treated, and the government should interfere with this in such a drastic way, in such a transparent way, and I think that in such an outrageous way, which again serves nothing more than the enrichment, well-being of buddies and the development of the semi-dictory state in which you are interested. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik, DK and Dialogue.]]
u2018-07-03-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Földi. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The current bill before us addresses both the scope of non-centralised contracts relating to the broadcasting of football, sports competitions, sports events of non-union sport organisations on television, radio, internet or other means for the general public, and provides for selected courts specialising in sports matters to act in matters of sports organisations, in accordance with international practice. The use of a special arbitration route will facilitate and promote the independence and integrity of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP fraction supports the bill, and I ask you to support it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-58	Thank you very much. I give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman, notary.
u2018-07-03-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd divide the amendment into three parts, and I'd like to talk about it a little longer than the one before me. On the one hand, it does contain a lot of technical things that I will not repeat. These are obviously eligible proposals. I mean, obviously, it's about today, and I mean, let's just say, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, it's kind of, you know, it's kind of, you know, it's kind of, you know, it's kind of, you know, it's kind of, you know, The other element is obviously 78 over here. Mr Szilágyi, on which my colleague György Szilágyi referred very in detail, the timeliness of which raises serious question marks in me, and I must say that neither the authors nor the representative of the government have properly justified what the actuality of this is. It raises a lot of questions. Of course, it does not rule out that, by 30 September, let us say, a competition will prevent this issue from being complicated by the NB I broadcasts in this country, and I very much hope that obviously the sports organisations and specifically MLSZ will be able to use as much of this as possible for, for example, replacements from this type of revenue, but the date and circumstances of this amendment really make the questions asked by my fellow Member Szilágyi absolutely legitimate. So there is a question of how many sports organisations, how many sports associations, how many trade unions are affected by this issue, which makes the adoption of this amendment so prompt that, by the way, we have not talked about it, but let's say, during the season, such a change will occur in the current situation, in Hungarian, that, by 30 September, MTVA will, in any case, mediate NB I matches, and then different. This obviously raises questions about the whole proposal. I have to say that if you cannot give normal, fair answers to this, then obviously this could also have a negative impact on support for the whole proposal. So I'd like some answers. On the other hand, Article 8 As far as I'm concerned, any way I look at this third comment, I think it's pointless. No one's ever really talked about this in front of me. I need an answer to that. The fact is that, in particular, the proposal indicates that contracts already concluded are valid, but not later than 31 December 2006. I really think that there may have been a typo here at ParLex or something like that, but you can deny me, or you can explain to me what the point is; I couldn't discover it. The importance of sport is outstanding to me, too. I believe that this is important to you, although it is not always clear from your specific decisions. It's more like words. The comments made in connection with the often excessive or pointless investment in sport are entirely justified. It is also questionable that a large number of built sports facilities of large size will be exploited. I'll tell you all the time, but of course there's a good place to build, like the stadium investment in Diósgyőr, where there'll be viewers, for example, it'll be totally unicy in football, by the way. [[Dr. János Fónagy: We agree.]] But they'll be here. As opposed to the tens of billions spent on Felcsútra, for example, where the stadium contains traces of viewers, if any. I'm sorry about the picnic, but that's the thing. I'm gonna tell you something about this right now, because I really care about sports. I was once told that football could be a kind of meditation for me, and indeed it is, because as long as you play sports, especially in a community, you believe that it is only the rules of the given sport and its own performance that determine how successful it is, and in Hungarian public life it is a unique thing, because millions of other things determine the success of people in Hungary today, such as how well you have Fidesz connections. Obviously, in a single election, you get a lot of negative campaigns from your side of the street, a lot of unfair things. Obviously, under these circumstances, a team sport is a big deal, and believing in it is a big deal. I think that's what they took away from people. This is the problem with the situation of sport in Hungary, NB I, football and much more. Quite simply, people do not believe that the performance on the field is the determining factor in which team wins the championship, what is happening in a game, but, for example, the fact that the team of a given settlement lies with Fidesz politicians, what resources they can organize, or, let's say, a specific village team is successful because that particular village is the home village of the Prime Minister. I think that until we give people back this belief that it makes sense, it makes sense to listen, it makes sense to worry about what is happening at a sporting event, it doesn't make any sense, because they're going to throw terrible money away, pour it out into a pot with holes, and sports-loving people like me can't defend this unprotected policy that you're pursuing in any way, because people are quite right to say why they're not going to spend big money on health, why they're not going to spend big money on education from Hungary's central budget. [[11.30]] Again, 80 percent of the proposals are technical and eligible. Those raised by György Szilágyi, therefore 78/I. I'd like specific answers there. Article 8 And, again, I think it's written, that's all that can happen, or I don't understand it properly, that can be, but I'm gonna ask you for answers to that. The fact that such a sports propaganda or such a government propaganda will be heard in connection with each such proposal does not make much sense until all Hungarian citizens are reassured by the framework of Hungarian sports events and sports organisations. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-60	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. Congressman says I'll... I'll wait for you to put the microphone on.
u2018-07-03-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I believe that my fellow Member, György Szilágyi, has decoded the meaning of the entire amendment of the law. I would like to add one addition, and to what László Varga has been pushing for, why we have to give the MLSZ's broadcasting rights back to the association now, so that they can be expected to sell it again to Spíler TV, which is currently in Andy Vajna's possession, but if we can believe the rumours that usually prove to be valid, then Viktor Orbán's nearest cashier, Lőrinc Mészáros, will take over from the inadequately loyal Vajna. [[László Varju: That's right!]] So this is a HUF 4 billion business a year, this is the contractual value of the agreement between MLSZ and MTVA, this 4 billion business, and the resulting expected increase in ratings, will be bought by Spíler TV, which will now bring the money to Uncle Orbán and Fidesz, respectively. I don't think there's much more to say about this law, so thank you for the opportunity.
u2018-07-03-62	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This concludes the speech of the lead speaker. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech to one person per faction in accordance with the regulations of the House. From the DK Group, MEP László Hajdu applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-63	Mr President, Madam Secretary! I think that this legislative amendment proposal would also have given us the opportunity to bring a little fun, such as money, to other areas of sport, taking into account, let's say, the part of football. It is clear that the bill is clearly a business-friendly proposal, but I think it would have been a very good time to deal with the reason why we weren't in the Olympics, we weren't at the World Championship, we weren't at the European Championship, we haven't been there for decades, although stadiums are being built, bleachers are empty and much more. But I'm thinking about reinforcements when I asked for a word, that we know very little about replacements today, even for football. In my constituency, where I come from, there are 26 sports clubs, and many football clubs. Today he becomes a football player from whom his parents can pay the coach, the reservation and everything else, not the talented one, but whose parents can pay 10-15 thousand forints a month. So when we talk about funding and now this law doesn't talk about it, funding should go down to the level of small local government associations, so that there will be some kind of talent-exploratory opportunity. Now, basically, talent means that the parent can pay for it. I would like to ask you to send a message that there is a lot more work to be done on the replacement of football, and much more than all of them, and it is very important to have a scholarship system in full width, not just at academys. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I think that's what I miss about the bill. Thank you.
u2018-07-03-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will now be repeated speeches by Members. Mr György Szilágyi spoke again. Here you go, Congressman, notary.
u2018-07-03-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to draw the attention of both the rapporteur and possibly the Secretary of State to the fact that this debate, in general, may work by asking questions and answering them, but still by answering them when we are able to respond, so not as a closing point, when Members, myself and other Members may no longer have the right to ask questions about these answers. Because, by the way, you do nothing but submit a bill, and then let the opposition give its opinion on it, and then you will do it anyway, and then you will tell us in the closing words how wrong we are, because, for example, they are implementing the will of Viktor Orbán on this issue, and how important football is for Viktor Orbán. But let's get back to it, I'll ask you some more questions, and then we'll see how we get some answers. My fellow Member said that there will be changes here, because it will no longer be owned by Andy Vajna, but by Lőrinc Mészáros. Doesn't it matter which NER knight owns it? Viktor Orbán owns this issue with regard to both people, Viktor Orbán decides what to do and what to do, Viktor Orbán will also decide on this issue at Spíler TV, and the Viktor Orbán, on whom it is clear that he is a great fan of football, so that Viktor Orbán openly stated that the big football tournaments and the NB I matches are a strategic issue, that only public television can broadcast it. We have now come from this sentence, that unless it is broadcast by my TV, so Viktor Orbán's TV, it doesn't matter that it's not broadcast by public television, and then it doesn't matter how many people can watch it. I would add that we should talk a little bit about TV2, where Spíler TV belongs, so the TV2 group, that TV2 is going to be able to spend its life on a huge 20 billion-dollar loan from MKB in the previous year with a loss of 7 billion, and with such a business policy, it will be able to bid on BL matches, to buy NB I matches, and, as I mentioned, besides the Italian Championship and the English Championship, even the Spanish Championship. Another thing about what László Varga said is that he hopes that there will be competition on sports broadcasting rights by December. Well, Congressman, you've been sitting here in Parliament for a long time. [[Dr. László Varga: It was false hope, false.]] We were on the sports committee together, and I totally appreciate your positive attitude towards the issue, but I have to say that there will be no competition. I mean, let's just think that from 2012 to 2016, in addition to MTVA, Sport TV owned the broadcasting rights, so two of them broadcast the NB I matches, and then, no, Sport TV, with a live contract, gave up the NB I matches in the 2015-16 season. Why he resigned, that he was under some kind of pressure, or that he received some kind of financial allowance or compensation, as is written here in the law, we do not know, but with a live contract Sport TV did not broadcast the matches. Now, if someone's got a live contract, so they can broadcast the matches, and they don't, I can't really imagine that there's going to be a race. [[Signal from the opposition benches.]] As you can see here, my fellow Members, there must have been a phone call for Sport TV, saying that if you want to stay in different packages, you should not broadcast the NB I games quickly. [[Lajos Korózs nods.]] And then they thought it was right. So I still think that we would expect answers, especially on the basis of statements that I said at least in this, disprove that we are talking about the golden age, the golden age of sports, and the flowering age of sports, and I say that this is just as much as it is for the country, for the last eight years is the age of the sports mafia, for the mafia, for which nothing matters, it's not about sports, it's about making as much money as possible and putting friends in as much position as possible. Thank you for listening. [[11.40]]
u2018-07-03-66	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak for a proper speech. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Another two-minute lap is possible. Member Zsolt Gréczy of the DK Group has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We all share the need and hope for Hungarian athletes to successfully participate in world competitions. I am very fond of Hungarian athletes myself. On the one hand, I would argue with Mrs Secretary of State that sport today would be a golden age. In the last golden age, I think about 88 and 92, these two Olympics, when the gold medals were scattered so that as many sports as possible brought these gold medals. In the last Olympics, about two athletes brought 90 percent of the gold medals: Danuta Kossák and Katinka Long, so I wouldn't call it a golden age. Of course, this golden age, I know you were a part of it, and I congratulate you on your swimsuit. The other problem is that it is the Prime Minister's favourite sport that is failing in this supposed golden age, as we are now at the point that we are being cuckolded by bakers and dentists from Andorra, after they have left the field victorious in the fight against the Hungarian national team, in which they have not been particularly sweaty to win. So I think it's definitely not a victory. And speaking of football and talking about the NB I, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that football has practically died in the cities of Hungary thanks to the Orbán government. There's no football in Győr, Szeged, Pécs, Nyíregyháza, and I could tell you more [[Lajos Korózs: In Eger.]] In Eger, it is practically not in the county seats, but in Felcsút there are 14 people going to the match and watching eight foreign legionists and three Hungarian football players. And I still have 20 seconds; if it's a sports law, it would be good to provide for the transparency of Tao money. DK has sued the Tao money on the highway, but the NB hasn't issued the money or documents since then, and Lőrinc Mészáros wrote us a letter saying that you have the documents using Tao money on the highway. We're looking forward to these now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2018-07-03-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr György Szilágyi, notary, has also applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-69	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologize in advance to both the Secretary of State and the President, but I am just a little bit off the bill. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to talk more probably with Prime Minister to remind her that, please, Mr Prime Minister, the promise she made before the elections in Diósgyőr, the fans of Diósgyőr, when she said that she was very absent, so the Prime Minister also misses the pyrotechnics about matches and the atmosphere. He promised the fans that these pyrotechnic articles would be reviewed and possibly approved. Perhaps you should remind him that it would be very easy to keep this promise, since it is only necessary to make legislative amendments. This would also be good, apart from the fact that Viktor Orbán promised, and a Prime Minister must keep his promises, because there may be serious problems with this at a football match. Unfortunately, there has been an accident in the Ferencváros match where a small child was injured. I've been telling you for many years that completely banning pyrotechnic articles can't be done. Then let us try to allow in a controlled form and legalized form to use devices that are tested, because unfortunately, fans use devices purchased from different sources of supply, which are dangerous, because they do not know what effect a ignited smoke bomb or one of these pyrotechnic articles can cause. This has been the case before when they didn't want to interrupt, let's say, the match, but the smoke bomb that the fans set on fire had such an effect that it covered the whole field. If they knew, they wouldn't have done it. So this is a very important question. So you may not feel it, fellow Members, but this is a very important question about football matches. Prime Minister promised to keep his word, at least let's start talking about it and try to make changes to the law on this matter. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-70	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Csaba Nagy, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the mark of Csaba Nagy:]] Yes, he does. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, If you'll allow me, a lot of points have been raised, but if you accept my judgment, I just want to deal with the serious things. [[Zsolt Gréczy: The Tao? Noise, the president's ringing.]] What I would like to say to you on this point is that I would obviously like to say a few things about the amendment of the law. It has been said that my fellow Member, László Varga, does not understand what this technical amendment is. I have now looked at what the facts are and what the legislation now contains in relation to the section currently in force. If you'll allow it, it's the 8th. Paragraph 2 of the amendment proposal. The previous text appears to be valid until the end of the period laid down in the contract and up to 31 December 2006. The new proposal: civil law contracts already concluded are valid until the end of the contractual period, but not until 31 December 2006, this is the difference between the old law and the amendment. If I may, I would like to address one or two general comments. I think that the bill itself is completely open and clear. In addition to modifying the various paragraphs and sections by means of legal solutions, it is also trying to strengthen the autonomy of associations and sports organisations, it is trying to strengthen its economic autonomy and help its financial position by conferring such property rights on them. Why is this story timely? I think it is timely because we want to now and we have just come to the point where we are trying to strengthen these sports organisations and sports associations with this, and in my view it will certainly help their economic activity and their work. It strengthens their role in all respects and thus installs rights to the civil sector which they can enforce as economic rights in respect of sports associations. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk a little bit about the golden age of sport, as Madam Secretary said. I've written myself a few figures earlier on how much the number of certified athletes has increased in recent years, let's say, between 2011-17. If you look at hockey players from 2300 to 5300, if you look at handball players, I round it from 24,000 to 66,000 now, so that I don't bore you with the many numbers, basketball from 25,000 to 60,000, volleyball from 20,000 to 12,000, waterball from 4,000 to nearly 7,000, and football is a very important number. In this respect, the fact that our young people have started playing soccer is significant because they have become certified athletes, and the fact that the number of establishments that are covered by Article XXI continues to increase year after year. It meets the requirements of the 100th century, and this is how we can support the increasing increase in sports supplies and the proportion of athletes in Hungarian society. I am asking you that, since this bill is not about developing private TVs, but about the autonomy of sports associations, about increasing their legal and economic opportunities and their scope for manoeuvre, support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to the management of state assets until closure. The submission submitted by our fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz T/709. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Balázs Győrffy, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-73	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The T/709 in front of us. The draft law amending certain laws relating to the management of state assets is the National Ménes estates and Tanazdaság Zrt. in Jezőhegyes. and facilitates further development of the region. [[11.50]] Mezőhegyes is an example that the Hungarian state can also be a good owner. The 2016 XCI on National Farms and Farms of Menes. law created the legal foundations for the return to the path of prosperity of Europe's largest breeding estate, which was cut off by socialist governments in 2004. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has set itself the goal of making the farm estate, which preserves the traditions of our country, very rich in natural beauty, with state involvement, development adapted to tradition, an outstanding model economy and an agricultural training and tourism operator in the region. The area is a significant agricultural-cultural historical site, which is a value for posterity with its buildings, equipment and traditional tools in the economy, outside of the conditions of nature. Developments in the model economy that started to develop again from 2017 can serve horse breeding with the maintenance of native breeds of horses, the breeding of native and other farmed animals. It also deals with crop production, mechanization, irrigation technologies, forest and game management. The model economy, agricultural research, vocational training, adult education and university training will soon become one of the most prestigious locations. Dear House, The bill is the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Act 2 and Act XCI of 2016 on National Farms and Farms of Menes. This includes an amendment to the law. The tasks relating to the management of state assets shall be performed by the government, the members of the government and the budgetary bodies under the control of the members of the government and by entities subject to the exercise of ownership rights of the members of the government within the framework of the laws laid down by the Parliament. In view of this, it is necessary to provide for the possibility for the government to identify persons who can be designated as an exerciser of ownership rights. The bill contains the necessary amendments and ensures technical amendments to the National Farms and Farms Act. In the first part, the proposal amends the National Property Act by allowing the Government to determine in a decision a person who may be designated as a shareholder in respect of the property belonging to the State. The National Property Act 7/A. According to § 1 (1) of the Act, in respect of national assets owned by the State, holders of ownership rights may only be: (a) Minister, (b) Central Budget Body, (c) 100 per cent owned by the State or (d) an economic company jointly owned by 100 per cent of the State and the State. On the basis of the proposal, this is complemented by a new exercise of ownership rights, as defined in the Government's specific decision. The second part of the proposal is a technical amendment to the Law on National Farms and Farms, on the basis of which the individual designation of the holder of ownership rights is not carried out, but the person exercising ownership rights is defined in accordance with the general rules. The Law 5. §2 of the Act currently reads as follows. The bodies of the stud estates are the practitioners of ownership rights, the board of directors and the supervisory board. Practitioner of ownership rights is the Minister responsible for the management of state property. Article 5 Paragraph 2 is deleted. In the closing procedure, it is proposed that Article 1 should be amended accordingly. § 38 of the Fundamental Law. § (1) and (2) shall be considered to be pivotal. According to these provisions of the Fundamental Law, the property of the State and local authorities is national property. The aim of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, to meet common needs and to safeguard natural resources and to take account of the needs of future generations. The requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets are laid down in a fundamental law. The scope of the exclusive ownership and exclusive economic activity of the State, as well as the limitations and conditions for the disposal of national assets of national importance for the national economy, shall be governed by a cardinal law, having regard to the purposes set out in paragraph 1. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's intention remains unchanged: the Mezőhegyes National Ménes estates and the Farm become an outstanding model economy in the region and an agricultural training and tourism player, which helps not only Mezőhegyes, but also the development of the region. Please support the adoption of the bill, the further development of Mezőhegyes. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, spoke. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's aim is to keep Hungary a strong and efficient state. A strong and efficient state carries out its public tasks at a high level, ensuring that the tasks related to the optimal functioning of society are carried out smoothly. One of the main conditions of this is the wealth of the community. The strong state is not only using national wealth, but also watching over it and bearing in mind that this property is our common heritage, the preservation and enhancement of which is the responsibility and responsibility of the current government. The efficient state, the good government, manages the community's wealth in such a way that it not only preserves its value but also seeks to increase its value. Through the glasses of this approach, we have examined T/709 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of state assets. and, on this basis, we consider it justified to support it. We believe that an efficient state-owned company that constantly enhances its economic strength can also significantly increase the government's margin of manoeuvre. We are therefore striving to restore and strengthen the ownership role of the State in sectors and companies of national importance. In public companies, the exercise of ownership rights is entrusted to persons, institutions, who represent the government's programme and the strategic objectives of public asset management, in addition to the highest level of professionalism. In order to enable the exercise of ownership rights to adapt to the changing challenges of the market day by day, it is necessary to empower the Government to designate, by its own decision, the person exercising ownership rights in respect of the national assets owned by the State. In order to take strategic decisions on public property, we propose and support the adoption of the fundamental law we are discussing. The amendment proposal can be incorporated into the current state wealth regime. According to the Law on State Property, at present the totality of the ownership rights and obligations of the State over the state property is exercised as a shareholder if the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. does not otherwise have a legal or ministerial decree. practice. The effective legal basis for the exercise of ownership rights of the person indicated in the government decision which will be published on the basis of the amendment of the Law on National Property will continue to be established in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Property, by a law, or by a ministerial decree. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill includes amendments to the National Property Act and to the National Farms and Farms Act. The tasks relating to the management of state assets shall be performed by the government, the members of the government and the budgetary bodies under the control of the members of the government and by entities subject to the exercise of ownership rights of the members of the government within the framework of the laws laid down by the Parliament. In view of this, it is necessary to establish the conditions for the government to have the opportunity to identify persons who can be designated as a holder of ownership rights. The bill therefore includes the necessary amendments, as well as technical amendments to the Law on National Farms and Farms. Dear House, In order to ensure the effective implementation of the management of wealth, which aims both to carry out public tasks and economic growth, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the Government's efforts by adopting the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr János Pócs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, A country which, in view of its location, climate, product and national soul, raises a good horse. There is nothing better than Hungary, and that it stands only on itself to bring this object into such bloom and to bring it to such fruition; that we can cover all the fairs of the world with our horses, and that the Hungarian horse should win a fair and deserved first place everywhere. Written by Széchenyi István Lovakrul in 1828. [[12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, According to the decision of the Government on 8 November 2016, Mezőhegyi Ménesbirtok Zrt. was bought back, then, in conjunction with the previously state-owned Ménes Kft., Mezőhegyesi Nemzeti Ménesbirtok Tangazdaság Zrt. founded Mezőhegyesi Nemzeti Ménesbirtok Tangazdaság Zrt. on 1 January 2017. The aim was to create Europe's most prestigious state-owned agricultural business by reorganising the historically long-standing stud estates. Right now, that's on the right track. The T/709 in front of us. The draft law amending certain laws relating to the management of state assets constitutes the further development of Mezőhegyes. As early as the first year, the company achieved nearly HUF 1 billion in results, which it reverses into improvements, such as machine purchases. The Hungarian state bought the company back for HUF 2.1 billion, and so far more than HUF 22 billion has been spent on the reconstruction of Mezőhegyes. This is a great opportunity not only for the settlement, but also for the entire Békés county, as Mezőhegyes looks at the county as one of the important economic and labour market reserves of the country. The development of the area is also supported by the development of motorway M5 and the airport in Pécsaba. Mezőhegyes is also an economic reorganisation programme, because the economy, which provides jobs for nearly 450 people, is a job opportunity not only for the region but also for those living in sporadics across the border. The aim of Mezőhegyes is to make it one of the most important sample farms in the national irrigation development, or to become one of Europe's best agricultural enterprises. In the reorganization of Mezőhegyes, last year was a very successful foundation year, since the company's assets increased by HUF 19.5 billion. Last year's crop was a good result for the company. 6,7 tonnes per hectare of autumn wheat, 3 tonnes of rape, and 3,7 tonnes of hybrid maize were the highest of all time, reaching an average yield of 3,45 tonnes of soy1, sunflower. Ladies and gentlemen, The uniqueness of the sample farm is, among other things, that they began to grow sugar beet, with which they achieved the best sugar yield of 65 tonnes per hectare. In the course of these developments, they aim to introduce the most modern technology, creating the foundations of an exemplary, precise economy for the country in 2018. This could result in an efficiency improvement of up to 20-30 percent in the future. From the second half of 2018, a beef programme will be launched and a scholarship system will be developed, as we see the future in the training of the professionals most needed for agriculture. Zrt. since September last year. operates the Kozma Ferenc Agricultural Training School and College, adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture. The total capacity of the industrial plant to be set up by Mezőhegyes will be 46,000 tonnes, including a drying, cleaning, seed processing and a feed plant. They have 1100 dairy cows with high genetic value, and they want to preserve it through an embryo program. Nearly 100 gidran horses will be reinstalled this year, the furioso-north start will also be bought back. Ladies and gentlemen, In the first part, this bill amends the law on national property so that the Government may decide to designate a person who can be designated as a shareholder in respect of the assets owned by the State. As the rapporteur, Mr Balázs Győrffy, mentioned, the National Property Act 7/A. According to § (1) of the State's national property currently owned, owners may only be: (a) the minister, (b) the central government body, (c) an economic entity owned by the State at 100%, (d) an economic entity owned by the State and the State at 100%, together a company owned by 100%. On the basis of the proposal, this is complemented by a new exercise of ownership rights: the person specified by the Government in a specific decision. The second part of the proposal is a technical amendment to the National Farms and Farms Act. In the closing procedure, it provides that the proposal is to be drawn up in accordance with Article 1. Article 38 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law constitutes a fundamental principle. Ladies and gentlemen, The Mezőhegyes National Ménes estates and the Farm of Education have achieved significant results over the past year and a half. It is well on its way to becoming Europe's outstanding, modern-tech model economy and centre, serving the rise of the region, the prosperity of local people and families. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill and to support the development of the Ménes estate and the economy. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. Here you go, Congressman, notary.
u2018-07-03-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Here we have just heard very touching thoughts from the rapporteur and the pro-government speaker and the secretary of state. We've heard countless historical quotes. We have heard of a strong state, a common heritage, the responsibility of the government, the management of a good steward, how much the state wants to strengthen its role in such companies and so on. We've heard of the highest level of professionalism. Let me tell you something else, or let me enrich this touching line. János Lázár, the former Prime Minister's Minister, said on several occasions that the government would like to make the state company, i.e. the stud farm, one of the best agricultural businesses in Europe and Hungary's strongest agricultural company. This is all very nice and very good, only from what we are talking about here, not a word is true in this regard. That is the case, that is the problem, because in fact, you are using this bill on livestock farming as a matter of fact. Indeed, it can be said that since 2016 since the farm came back into the hands of the state, it has cost EUR 23 billion of public money, i.e. taxpayers' money, to strengthen this company, to raise capital. This company has a special government commissioner. Starting from horse breeding, it was also about the construction of an industrial park through machine park modernisation, building renovation, high school operation, agricultural-higher education involved in the operation of this company, exhibition, fair, prize jumping competition, everything has been here in the past. We could say, according to the press, that if you're about to become a booming company, you really are one of the biggest employers in the region, and now there's news that nearly 500 people are employed, before that, it was around 400. So apparently everything is very nice, everything is very good, we can be content with everything. It's just that the amendment of the property law will result in the exact opposite, and it will do exactly the opposite in a rather serious attempt. In particular, the paragraph that you have quoted several times has repeatedly stated what points (a), (b), (c) and (d) are in that section of 7/A. Therefore, who can be the sole owner of national property, this gate will now be wide open to all of you. [[12.10]] Because this law is about whether it can be the state, 100% state-owned company, budgetary body and so on, and any other person. So it is not just the ten million Hungarian citizens that we should be thinking about, but actually anyone on this globe wide, 7.5 billion people can be said calmly. There is no restriction in this bill. So obviously you already know who this person is going to be. We wouldn't be surprised, I think that no one in this House, you and we, too, would suddenly appear in a government decision, which will be about it, because for some reason, in some inexplicable way, they will always migrate to it with larger items of a kind that we can safely call strategic assets. So I would like to ask you to put this debate in a meaningful place, please tell me that this is a single push of a button, two seconds of time demand, who is the person who is going to receive this State Farm, and who is the person for whom you have renationalised at the end of 2016 and who, by adding a very significant amount of public money, has boosted this company. Because once again, we can be sure that this person is in fact already appointed, but by the way, it is only the fate of the Farm in order for you to amend the property law. Because that tells us that it's a 7/A. It is not included in the amendment to Section 2 of this Article that such a designation can be made only in respect of, say, the farm, in relation to any other subject of state-owned national property, you will be able to use and apply it again and again, and now without bringing it to the House. So I think that, in effect, we can say that national wealth as such will cease to exist in Hungary, because you can at any time have a specific government decision, which is not a law, because a decision is not a law, so that in particular the House will not be able to exercise any further restrictions over this very wide-open gate. After that, it is safe to say that the functioning of Parliament, the work of the legislature, will actually be completed in this respect. I think that when we have listened to these beautiful words from you about the importance of a strong state and a common heritage and a future generation, you may actually have recreated the concept of the state, and in the future generation you think only of the future generation of the Mafia family, but then let us speak, let us speak openly, let us respect each other in this sense, that then we are talking about what is real, what is the truth, because I think that not only those sitting in the benches of the opposition can understand it, but even the people of the country understand what is really about. The other is that it's a two-thirds law. Now, as strange as it may seem, surprising and thought-provoking, I'm very pleased that you have two thirds of them, because this is the kind of trouble you're going to take. We will never vote for this law. On national property, we should all be on guard, but what's happening here is a complete waste of national wealth. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-07-03-80	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga, notary. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very unhappy that Fidesz has two thirds, although I know that it only metaphorically understood the law before me, because it will be adopted, this is the greatest tragedy in this, and it will indeed give a whole new dimension to state wealth management, which lies before us. If everyone has listed it, then I would like to list it: there must be no other legal practice than (a) minister, (b) central budgetary body, (c) an economic entity owned by the State by 100% or (d) an economic company jointly owned by the State and the entity specified in (c). This is added to point (e): and to whom you believe. So it's that simple. Obviously, it is written sophisticatedly, nicely, that it is possible to declare a person in a government decision to be one, but it is the case in this case that this opens a door, and I understand that it is put together here to bring it in on the Ménes estate, but, apart from some strategic exceptions, if we look at it with another rule, then this will be the case for virtually any state company. Obviously, it can affect hundreds of state-owned companies and open a door that I don't think can be opened with a good feeling. Obviously, the thing you're talking about in connection with the Ménes estate, in dealing with this issue, or in dealing with efficient farming, could be found. I think it was an appropriate guarantee that there were very strict rules on how to exercise ownership rights, how and who can manage state wealth. These guarantees should continue, which would provide an adequate guarantee for the Hungarian people. You are supplementing this with a point (e), which means that it can be anyone you think it is, and in a government decision, individually, not only in relation to this company, but also in relation to almost any public company, or in relation to state wealth, you will decide that. This is outrageous. They do have two-thirds of that responsibility, and I think once they've brought it in, they're gonna take it. In this form, we find this proposal unacceptable, and we object to it, and we will not support it. I think a few words of this proposal are not even worth talking about at the moment. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-83	Thank you very much. Then it seems, Mr President, Mr House, Mr Secretary of State, as a rapporteur, I think you must also face the fact that the opposition has a unanimous opinion that you are once again exposed. Just now, in the sports law, it became clear that sports or football were played not to a goal, but to a Tao, and here it became obvious that state wealth was being played to overtake. I am very sorry that Mr Fónagy gives his name to this, because it is very clear here that the Ménes estate is, by the way, only to adopt this law, and then practically tossing out what you have previously thought could be modified in the context of a particularly difficult legislative procedure. Now you're going to violate that by opening this opportunity and giving it to the government. This is an integral part of the process that we can safely call a reduction in Parliament's control powers, we see this in all areas, we see it in the Committee on Budgets, the President of the Hungarian National Bank would rather run away than otherwise inform the most competent. You have made this possible with a parliamentary decision, given your name as a majority, and now you will do the same instead of registering assets in the management of assets. You can see that unortodoxia is spreading here in this form, the traditional tools are being abandoned, and they're looking for those well-managed figures who will do all this for you, and you don't have to report it to anyone. The content of the bill itself, which has been mentioned here by several fellow Members, I think it really is about these two elements, and therefore there is no need to waste too many words to repeat that, by the way, the addition you have made, which, as a specific decision of the government, gives you the opportunity to name, to name the trustee, this goat cabbage, about. [[12.20]] If that's what we think of him, then based on his behavior so far, I think they shouldn't be surprised. Therefore, the amendment of the law 1. According to the Government's sympathy, anyone can be a government owner, perhaps even a list can be listed. It's not so diverse that it's not obvious. Therefore, I believe that you really must account for this responsibility. This is particularly interesting while there is also a ministry entrusted with asset management. At the ministerial hearing, Minister, he also spoke specifically about the register of state assets, and the President of the State Audit Office specifically talks about the type of wealth register and the need for transparency. Well, there's gonna be consequences, but that's not, that's for sure. With the very simple methods we've seen somewhere else from you, I think they'll make it work. Today you may still be proud, we can be proud that the National Farmhouses have worked effectively, their results are being used for development, but we can also call it costing off what happened there and coming up as a result. One thing is quite certain: in this way the budget does not generate any revenue. In part, all these changes are designed to ensure that since 2010, your government has consistently hindered the control of Parliament, including the opposition, over state wealth, and this is a step forward on this path. This process was launched in June 2010, when the social control of wealth, which has existed since the regime change, was lifted by law, and representatives of opposition fractions were excluded from this option or from this control option. The control bodies were filled only with pro-government people. It is now also happening that the audit bodies will be needed only indirectly, because they can delegate a responsible person to whom you are naming, and in this way I can say that the political responsibility for which the Minister is responsible for what is happening may be removed, and this may give rise to some restraint. But you're gonna eliminate all of this. Which is why, as I began, you have been exposed to this effort. Therefore, this draft law cannot be supported in this form. Plus, if I'm not a bad guy, then I have another version of what happened to the horses, and then what happens happens, and then everyone can stick to what happened to the state fortune. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, we do not support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Krisztina Hohn. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-85	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, T/709 submitted by my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, Fidesz. The Law on the modification of certain laws relating to the management of state assets would bring shocking changes in the management of state assets. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. It would amend law so that, in respect of the national assets owned by the State, the holder of ownership rights could only be the person specified in the Government's individual decision. The intention, we hope, is not to be a person who is not free to ask the opposition here in Parliament. The other thing that can be seen from the lines of the law to be amended is that it also seeks to abolish ministerial supervision over state property. The 2016 XCI on National Farms and Farms of Menes. By law, the Minister responsible for the supervision of State property exercises ownership rights over the Ménes estates. The amendment removes the rights of the Minister and names the Board and the Supervisory Board as practitioners of ownership rights. According to the law, the members of the board are appointed and recalled by the holder of ownership rights for a period of five years. The question is, therefore, who will appoint the board of directors if my fellow Member's proposal comes into force. Could it possibly be the new institution set up in the amendment of the law on national assets, the person specified in the government's individual decision? The reasons for the bill practically state that the government can and will do so to identify persons who can be designated as an exerciser of ownership rights. Why is the minister not qualified to exercise the ownership rights of public wealth? Ladies and gentlemen, According to Hungary's Fundamental Law, natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, as well as cultural values, are a common heritage of the nation, which is protected, maintained and preserved for future generations by the state and everyone. If that is the case, and that is the case in the Fundamental Law, then what is the need now for the head of state companies at the beginning of the fourth term of the current governing party to appoint individual owners' practitioners who are not the minister? Aren't the ministers up to this task? What can be the reason for economic necessity and timing? The need to amend the two laws governing the use of state assets, one of which is two-thirds, unfortunately, because of the urgency of the bill. So we have to guess. János Lázár said at the Agriculture Committee's meeting in October 2015 about the privatisation of state land: we sold all our agricultural companies, we were long over farming. The Hungarian state doesn't do it. Why? Because he couldn't farm. Because they stole it, stole it, and cheated the state agricultural companies. Who needs this world? If that is the case, and there is no reason to question the knowledge of the former Chancellor, then the management of public companies should be closely monitored to ensure that they are well managed with the public assets entrusted to them, and that care should not be considered sloppy. Then why is it necessary for the head of public companies to be protected to have individually designated owners' rights practitioners? Nemzeti Méneskörtények és Tanazdaság Zrt. On its website, the following sentence is read: in order to preserve state property, to carry out training tasks related to certain branches of livestock and crop production, to preserve the gene pool of historical Hungarian horse breeds, to develop horse tourism and to improve the employment situation of Mezőhegyes and its region, National Ménesbirtek és Tangazdaság Zrt. was born. The protection of state assets is therefore the first, T/709. However, the amendment amending certain laws relating to the management of state assets is not intended for this purpose. We have further concerns about the amendment. There is a public company that has been given special government attention in recent years, the Ménes estates in Ázelhegyes affected by the amendment. In the field of Mezőhegyespuszta, a stud institution was established II. In December 1784, only and exclusively in order to replace horses that died in the Austrian succession war, to increase horse stock. Today, the farm has 8 000 hectares of high-quality agricultural land, a huge agricultural machine park, an excellent genetic stock of horses, preserved in its original form 230-year-old monuments, and the company does not, by the way, provide jobs for some 450 people. The company, although not in need of state aid based on balance sheet data, was bought by the Fidesz government and has since spent billions on it. Sándor Farkas, Government Commissioner responsible for coordinating the reorganization of Ménes estates in Ázéshegyes, said in January this year that the company's assets increased by HUF 19.5 billion. At the time of the renationalization, the Watcher newspaper also spoke to a partner of the large economy, who said that the company was also privately profitable. [[12.30]] The Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates also enjoyed huge agricultural subsidies as a private company, they had a lot to develop from. According to the company data, even before the state purchased it, revenue and profits were well developed. The equity has doubled. The LMP also drew up a bill aimed at keeping the company capitalised by public funds in public ownership in order to preserve the national assets. T/13327 submitted in December 2016 With the proposed amendment to certain laws necessary to protect the property assigned to the sample holdings, the intention was to classify the 100 percent of the public ownership of the NMMM, which manages the renationalised Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate as unfit not only by a separate law adopted by a simple majority, but also by the fundamental legislation on national assets. The stud estate is listed in the National Property Act as one of the state assets governed by a separate law. In addition, the special law on the National Farm and Farm of Men emphasizes that 100 percent of the shares in the stud estate are owned by the State, the sale, burden, and collateralisation of the shares are null and void. However, these legislative passes do not necessarily provide sufficient protection for public agricultural companies against the possible infidelity of management. In addition to privatisation and circumvention to entrepreneurs, there are other threats to public wealth in Mezőhegyes and elsewhere in the country. The possibility of unfaithful treatment exists even if 100 percent of the shares remain state-owned. It is very easy to get billions out of a public company if there are no adequate legal guarantees, independent institutions to prevent this from happening. They also tried to weaken the expectations of effectiveness and the possibility of ex post accountability recently, since a legislative amendment on national assets was submitted to the salad law establishing the budget a few weeks ago. In addition, there is a sentence that the importance of cultural heritage and nature conservation is not hindered by the change of value of wealth in order to preserve cultural and natural values for future generations. Thus, with lossful management and possibly negative asset change, the share of a public company could very easily lose its value even if the individual specified in a specific decision of the government did everything in its power to enforce the preservation of cultural and natural values for future generations. It is perhaps worth saying all of this in the light of the fact that the government would now weaken the possibility of parliamentary control over public companies, including stud estates. As you have just said, I propose to my fellow Member, Győrffy, that he withdraw his proposal, with regard to the national assets owned by the State, that only the minister, the central budgetary body or an economic organization which is 100% owned by the State remain. In itself, it cannot be a public goal to spend as much public money as possible on a public company, but it is also a requirement for management to run companies as effectively as possible and to realise profits, and for public companies to be contributors to the budget. National wealth management is responsible for the preservation, protection of the value of national assets, transparent, efficient operation, use and increase of value. T/709 in front of the House I do not believe that this is what the bill is aimed at, but rather reduces transparency and creates opportunities for unfaithful treatment. That is why I ask my fellow Members not to vote for it. Thank you for listening.
u2018-07-03-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Once again, I am in an easy position to comment on this bill as the last, and so the speakers before me have already said a lot about the matter. First of all, I think it is a very problematic issue in the bill that, in order to settle the case of Mezőhegyesi Ménes estates, a much more general regulation is actually being smuggled in, which has already been mentioned. And indeed, it opens up the possibilities, expands them to be determined by a government decision, assigns ownership rights to a specific person. In addition, however, this bill does not say much about this particular person, and therefore I have old memories that in the old cursed socialist system there was such a general and loose definition of a specific person or criterion, when political compliance was the only decisive aspect, so in the '50s the CEOs and CEOs could be good workers. The reform of 68 has already made a lot of changes to this, since after the reform of 68 it was already necessary to have a certain professional background, a degree, a professional training course, or even a reference; that the progressive thoughts of the, the 1980s, should not be mentioned when the reform economists suggested that asset management holding companies should be set up, where public wealth could be required to increase, that there should be a profit for normative assets, or that there should be an expansion where asset loss was expressly sanctioned and prohibited. So I think this is the kind of regulation that makes things completely untidy while giving anyone the opportunity to have ownership rights, but on the other hand, it does not lay down any criteria or requirements in this regard. I think that if the government really believes that it wants to go in this direction, then work out what requirements are being imposed on these individuals, what kind of skills are being required of them, what kind of driving practice, what references are needed. Then work out a tender system, so that anyone can apply for the application, anyone can apply for it, the results of the tender should be publicly available, and they can be attacked by court. Because then it would give us a sense of equal opportunities and opportunity, because if the government really wants to choose the best people for the people who exercise ownership rights, then, I think, the dip base should also be widened. It should then be laid down in this law which operating criteria are laid down, how the loss of property is sanctioned, what normative asset-related profit is required from this operation, how long the operation may take, how the exemption may take place, sir, perhaps the bidding, so if others knew better, they could come up with other plans. Or, if they are not complied with, what kind of sanction can there be in this regard to guaranteeing the private assets of the designated persons to be responsible for the good operation of this state property; then the check is carried out by who, according to what principles, at what frequency. These are the issues which, I think, would be very important so that a substantive debate on this law can actually be held and that we do not question the good faith of the government. Because we now think that there is actually nothing else going on here than opening a door in connection with the stud estate that gives the government an unconditional mandate to appoint anyone and do anything in this case, and there is no way to verify that, so that we can get involved in this, so that we can see this whole process at all. So in this form, the Dialogue faction cannot support and will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[12.40]]
u2018-07-03-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have two-minute speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I'll give you... [[For signal:]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-89	Mr President, Dear House, It is quite clear that although we are discussing seemingly studs, the fact is that the government is trying to release a different spirit from the bottle. In itself, to assign ownership rights to the persons they have defined by a government decision, allow me, Mr Secretary of State, to at least give us some reason for mistrust in the light of the last eight years. However, I would like to note that I am questioning the basis of this debate in itself, because this government has a promise in 2010 and I would like the Secretary of State to respond to this, and this is a promise for a national inventory. This is not just a promise of registering elements of national assets, but a system of analysis of the whole family silver for the national economy, and in 2010 there was a concrete promise in this respect. Then a partial list of certain elements of state wealth came in here, which, let's say, was missing the Chain Bridge, but it was in it, fortunately the building of Parliament, in which we are arguing. So it seems that it was a very rough approach, and I have to say that it was a register that allowed conclusions to be drawn for not very thorough work. I believe that the management of our national assets is much more important than this, so in the possession of the national inventory, we could actually conduct these debates, and then these bad feelings in opposition representatives might not be born, but once again, it is an eight-year failure, which I do not see as a rational reason for failure. So if there were good intentions on all political sides, then such omissions would not be possible. The fact that this has been created clearly calls for consequences, but I am more interested in the solution, how we can resolve this issue. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy has applied for a speech. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to start with the closing words of my fellow Member Varju, who said that we should put the reins between the horses; yes, because there are horses. I would like to remind everyone here that in 1998, and then in 2010, there were not very much horses left, and now there is a horse to farm with. Allow me to say that my first reflection belongs to Professor Melár, my fellow Member, and I would like to reassure him in that regard, in my expozem or in my comment, that the real legal basis for exercising the right of ownership of the person who will be listed in the government decision on the basis of the amendment of the law on national property will continue to be established in accordance with the provisions of the Law of Property, a law or a ministerial decree, probably on the terms and conditions listed by Professor. And as for the good or bad faith of the speakers and their approach, yes, there is more to it than a stud estate, a move forward in principle that is justified by the establishment of the current government structure. My fellow Members have now witnessed for more than 20 years that I am generally a man of reconciliation and compromise, and now allow me to allow a few sentences. As regards Jobbik's comments, the fact that Jobbik has not yet had the opportunity to manage state wealth has shown in recent years that he cannot manage his own assets. With all due respect, I suggest that Jobbik should first exercise and classify itself in this and then judge any side, any age, the treatment and qualification of state property. And I would like to remind my fellow Members on the left that my fellow Member Varga has returned, because he, as a nut-győri, can confirm for sure what I am going to say, I am asking when we talk about state wealth, and about the responsibility for state wealth, where the Hungarian construction industry is, where the Hungarian steel industry is, where the Hungarian food industry is. You can account for it, or if you can't account for it, don't condemn the person who's proven to have increased it. You didn't deny that I was personally attacked here in this House because they said that we would buy back, buy back with expensive money, the assets of the state that you have lost in the last decades. We have always dealt with the state's wealth with responsibility, and have always sought to increase it. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: With the lands?]] Today, the state's wealth is more in hand than you took in your privatisation. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll listen to you when you press the button. That little one right there in front of you, that's what you gotta do. [[Defiance.]] I don't understand this basic misconception. The reason you've attacked us so far is because we've taken these back, they've attacked us because we've taken them back into state property. It is now assumed that the otherwise practical set of measures is aimed at dispersing state assets. By the way, the possibility in this appointment is just for one of my fellow Members to comment that the Minister will not be running the company, nor has the Minister ever managed it, but that we should appoint a government commissioner or appoint a ministerial commissioner to lead a strategically important company, I do not consider it from the devil on my part, otherwise it is also in line with European practice. In the recent separation of ownership rights and ownership rights in the government, this is a strong proof that the government does want to increase ownership responsibility and increase the responsibility of the government and the state as owners in the exercise of the law. Therefore, not arguing and not taking a risk after your clear rejection statement, not arguing that the opposition has the right, its duty, to smear pro-government proposals, I ask that this be said in the first place, not in bad faith, not in the first place, on a gut opposition basis, but on the basis of our practice of state property for the last eight years, in the light of our achievements in its enhancement. As far as the inventory of assets is concerned, there is a country's asset inventory, but the inventory is not a static concept, the inventory of assets is a dynamic thing, it is constantly changing. There's no sealed inventory, there's an inventory of assets, it's got turn dates, it's got frozen moments, but basically, the inventory is an ever-changing record system. After these sentences have been said, I would ask my fellow opposition Members to review and support this proposal, if I have managed to convince you in part, although there is little hope for this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members for a proper speech, because it follows that someone should come forward. [[There's no candidate.]] Then we'll have two-minute comments. I am speaking to Mr László Varga of the MSZP Group. Here you go. [[12.50]]
u2018-07-03-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, let me thank you for getting into an argument. This was a historic moment for a secretary of state [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Because we see many times that in awkward cases, they do not enter the debate, and when everyone has said what they have said, they react. At least that's something to appreciate. On the other hand, he addressed me here in relation to the steel industry. I spent a lot of energy in the previous cycle on the project sponsored by Eximbank, which had its foundation, or three times, to create a mini steel work in Diósgyőr. What I can tell you is that we're waiting, and everyone would be very happy to have a breakthrough in this. But what I can see is that people are being bullied, I'm sorry, I have to say it. Let me ask you this question: according to this proposal, you can be a shareholder law practitioner Lőrinc Mészáros, say, at a state company or, for example, at this stud estate! Because, by the way, that we are bad or good faith, perhaps this is the way that this question nuances it, because we are not bad faith, but we have very serious experience in how Fidesz handles this type of state property. So I say with great respect that we are not in a position to change our position, we will not support this proposal. At the same time, because he made a little personal voice, partly about me, that's all right: I also think you are a calm, moderate politician in general, in view of your entire career. I'm telling you that in a year's time, we'll talk about this because I see that this proposal will be pushed through. You know, I think, Mr Secretary of State, that you will also be messing with this mandate, and that is what we want to protect Hungary from. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-94	It is up to Congressman Antal Csárdi from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-95	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, and I say this with the utmost respect, that you do not understand this fundamental misconception, I believe, as you said, which appears on the opposition side. Allow me to try to explain this in a very brief and very plastic way: Lőrinc Mészáros, Traffic Act and this list would be so long, even if I am not fully thorough, which does not fit into the timeframe of a two-minute speech. I think that if we look at this in the context, Mr Secretary of State, that virtually all controls are out of the hands of both Parliament and the opposition, and that Mr State Secretary was also an opposition representative, you know exactly how important the opposition control work is in a democracy, I think that you can even understand the doubts that my fellow Members have said in a uniform manner, practically regardless of party color. We see precisely that, in the long term, the migration of state wealth into private pockets and the process of it has not only begun, but is still underway. There were moments when the press thought that this would slow down now, but we can see that this process does not want to stop, and it will not stop. Understand, Mr. Secretary, what you think is bad faith is a simple practical experience, and I am very sorry for that. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-97	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. I am shocked because the answer to Jobbik was not worthy of your person, because this kind of rude cutting may be customary and accepted by other fellow Members, but believe me, it does not suit you. Not to mention that your dictatorship is even capable of using the State Audit Office, the Hungarian Treasury, the NAV and so on as a weapon against a political opponent does not give you the right to classify our operation in this way. And the other is that I am very pleased that you really responded, since we are at least talking about this genre, that you stood up and answered, but to our fundamental question, which I asked first, and then my other opposition colleagues also said, who is this very simple question? In your legislative practice, it is quite clear that legislative proposals will be put before the House if, by the way, all the previous steps of choreography have already been played out in advance. So you know exactly who that person is. Please name it, there's still time. Press the button, you know, that little thing in front of you. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] And tell us who it's gonna be. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-98	Thank you very much, notary. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Balázs Győrffy, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the signal of Balázs Győrffy:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It is now up to the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/708. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law adopted by Parliament by a large majority, local government regulations cannot designate specific areas where living in a public area is prohibited. The stay in the public area will be generally prohibited from 15 October 2018. This bill was designed to adapt the current law of infringement to this fundamental law change. On the basis of the draft law, a person who does not leave the public area of his life-style stay shall commit an infringement. The purpose of this bill is also to organise better and more conscious social benefits for homeless people and to encourage people currently living on the streets to use accommodation that is suitable for them to receive adequate care. Our goal is also to preserve the state and order of our public areas. We must maintain our achievements in the area of public order and public security, and we must further improve the subjective sense of security for citizens. The Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Human Resources are working closely to assess exactly how many people live on the street right now and what places we can provide for them. In the implementation of the bill, we are also counting on the involvement of established churches and the assistance of local governments. Dear Parliament, I would also like to point out that the government is paying particular attention to the case of the homeless. Our aim is to ensure that the provisions of the bill are implemented in a humane way and not to place these people in the prisons. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] It is important to stress that if we experience a cooperative attitude on the part of the homeless person, there is no prospect of imposing an infringement penalty of any kind. If, in the course of an on-the-spot measure, a person who is living in a public area accepts the assistance offered by the present authority and avails himself of benefits for homeless persons, there will be no legal disadvantage. Dear Parliament, During the implementation of the law, the procedural protocol of the right holders of the measure will be developed. According to this, the authorities will know where they need to be moved in order to have a roof over their heads and receive humane care. It will be recorded in an up-to-date record of exactly which supply system can receive them, and exactly how many people can receive them at the moment. On the spot, the police are entitled to take action; the authorised administrator of the district and district office; the public area supervisor; the nature conservation guard; the local government conservation guard; and the authorised manager of the forestry authority as government official; the fishing guard and the field guard. [[13.00]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also provides for sanctions, but I would reiterate that the fine is completely removed from the applicable sanctions. The bill is based primarily on public service work in relation to legal consequences, while taking into account the principle of graduality, a secondary penalty may only be applied if the person concerned does not undertake public service work. It is also clear from what has been said that the purpose of the bill before this House is not to impose sanctions, but to encourage people who live in public areas to use services for the care of the homeless. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, it can be concluded that the amendment of the infringement law creates legal coherence with the Fundamental Law, taking into account the principle of graduality. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr György Hubay. I'll give the chair to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-07-03-101	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to briefly explain to you the 2012 II. on infringements, infringement procedures and the system for the registration of infringements. T/708 amending Act No. the position on the bill No 1. The primary objective of the bill can be clear to all, as it is necessary to amend this legislation as a result of the amendment of the basic law adopted by an overwhelming majority just a few weeks ago. According to the amendment of the basic law in force from 15 October 2018, municipalities are no longer allowed to designate areas where there is a ban on living in public areas, as this will generally be prohibited. Following that date, Article XXII of the Fundamental Law shall apply. In accordance with the amendment to Article 3 (3) of the Treaty, it will be prohibited to reside in the public area as a way of life. As I have mentioned, the primary purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the law on infringements is in line with the amendment of the so-called Fundamental Law, and to constitute an infringement of the rules on public residence as a way of life. In the event of the adoption of the bill, under the Violent Crime Act, the commission of the relevant infringement would result in the imposition of public service work and the imposition of fines would be excluded from the applicable sanctions. In the event that the perpetrator does not undertake to do the work of the public interest, he may be subject to detention. In practice, this means that violations of the rules on living in public areas are transferred to criminal offences which can also be prosecuted by detention. The substantive decision in this case will therefore fall within the jurisdiction of the court. The pre-trial preparatory procedure will be conducted by the police in accordance with the general rules and the general infringement authority will carry out the execution of the court's decision. It remains unchanged in the regulations that, on the spot, authorised administrators of the police, district and district offices, public area inspectors, nature conservation guards, municipal nature conservation guards, or, as government officials, the authorised manager of the forestry authority, the fishing guard and the field guard will be able to take action. It remains unchanged in the legislation that a breach is committed only by those who, despite the invitation from the authorities, do not stop certifying the conduct of the facts. Furthermore, the concept of living-style residence remains unchanged. However, according to the bill, it would appear as a new element that if, in the course of the on-the-spot measure, the person present in the public area cooperates with the help offered by the present authority or other body in order to benefit homeless persons, the infringement will also not take place. Here again, I would like to emphasise that the amendment states in a separate paragraph that this category of infringement does not give rise to fines and on-the-spot fines at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this technical amendment of legislation, which, in fact, only creates consistency between legislation, does not require a deeper professional debate. [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] In the debate on the amendment of the basic law adopted by a large majority, it was possible to express the views in principle on the subject. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Fidesz faction supports the bill, and I respectfully ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-102	Thank you, Congressman György Hubay. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr János Stummer, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2018-07-03-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Hubay, we believe that this bill on the House's table requires further professional discussions, because, with the most important of all, this bill before us is worth nothing, and if it is accepted, it will be more damage than a profit. That is the case, ladies and gentlemen. And when the god-given opposition representative has a duty to look beyond the government's current policy, then the question is this: is this the next election of the Interim Council in Yogatown so important to you, mayor? Are you so attached to the mayor's seat left empty by your group leader that, in order to achieve a positive result for you, you are even willing to present a bill that is obviously intransigible and obviously unfulfilled to this House? Is this election so important to you that while the proposal is being presented to this House, ignoring the ongoing eviction of foreign exchange-credit families, do you not care that often an unexpected illness, the loss of a job or a divorce can lead to homelessness in a short period of time? Ladies and Gentlemen, The situation is this: anyone who has spoken more than two sentences in his life to a person who is in the social sphere, especially to someone who is active in homeless care, knows well that there is no such simple solution to this complex problem, no such thing as that can be read from this draft. Just because you, my fellow Members, want to remove homeless people from the streets with this proposal does not mean that this is still an existing problem that is troubling our society. There's a lot to say about your administration, but there's no way in hell that I wouldn't be able to run the law without a thorough search of the field. There's always a reason in the background that motivates you, and there's basically no problem with that. The problem begins when, in the midst of the great sardines, they make too much sacrifice for this self - interest. This selfishness has led you astray again. Because what is contained in this bill is unfulfilled in everyday practice. We do not need to be a great expert, we have enough common sense to see that if homeless people are not imprisoned, there is no type of institution where the free movement of these people can be limited, as the intention to do so can be seen from their statements so far. What I would like to ask you is, when this bill was cooked up, there wasn't a single person among you who spoke to a professional, or would you simply have thought with a clear mind how this thing would work in practice? No one played the thought of what would happen after the deviant person who showed deviant behavior was accompanied by the pair of police patrolling the subway at Blaha Lujza Square to a given homeless shelter? And then they're gonna put him in the lobby, get a professional working at the hostel, and they're gonna tell me that the Hedgehog lives here from today? [[13.10]] What do you think the social worker will do to this escort? How do you keep him in the institution, even for a moment against his will? Will you close it? How, when you can't touch him? Where, when there's no room for this in the institution? What kind of driver's license, what kind of tool, what kind of resources do they provide to the social sphere and the workers in it? This must also be the case for the tree, so that this draft can be accepted. But we can't see any of this. You must understand, fellow Members, that the homeless shelter is not a prison or a closed class. These institutions are not created for the purpose of keeping people captive there, but for providing as much as possible living and human conditions to all who have no roof over their heads. I may be going to tell you something new, but these institutions have a policy. If you go in there, you'll agree to follow this policy. And if that doesn't work out, they'll thank him for his visit and get him out of this institution. But what happens now, if you force the happy-happy into this system of institutions that you've bled out? What will happen now when institutions are required to accept? Have you thought this through? The police will bring in deviant people with serious mental disorders who will not be able to comply with these policies, nor will they be able to be sent away. And these institutions will collapse under these expectations. The consequence of this will be that the social workers who are at your mercy will leave the field again, and so many will give up hope without the shelter for whom these hostels were the last straws to ever emerge from their miserable situation. And that's the case even if at these hotels there's often nothing but uncomfortable iron beds, dirt and bugs. Put your hands on your hearts, fellow Members: isn't this a great price to pay for this mayor's seat? When they brought in the relevant amendment to the basic law, many people in this country breathed. Not for nothing, for about 15,000 homeless people live in our country, and nearly a third of them spend the night on the streets. According to a 2013 survey, 7 percent of the adult population have an acquaintance or relative who is homeless. This means that more than 600,000 people in Hungary have direct experience of homelessness. What is this if it is not a social problem that is a major part of society? A fair solution to the homeless question is considered urgent ourselves. We must provide proper accommodation for these fellow humans, but not without conditions. Compliance with the fundamental rules of Community co-existence must be demanded of all. When you brought the fundamental law amendment here, many of you might have thought that, finally, this blissful situation would be resolved. Because the current situation is unblessed, there's nothing to sugarcoat. Those of you who venture out of the air-conditioned office car sometimes, and don't give me a chance, get into a subway in Budapest, will not be new to what I say. All sorts of dirty things in sacks, unwashed and consequently unscathed, lying on mattresses and various rags. And when they walk through, say, the subway at Blaha Lujza Square, my dear fellow Members, well, the smell of urine and canned wine on the ground will create a mixture in their noses that during the day there will be no sleek Prime Minister rejoinder that will make you forget all this. But do do this these days, my fellow Members, it will be a very useful experience. We were happy to raise the case. We thought that this would be the first ray of hope that communication governance would be over, and instead the age of real solutions to real tasks would come to us. But we had to be disappointed again and for a long time. Even though this is the expectation of a majority society to resolve this situation, this is not the situation in Europe, but you are clearly still unable to do so. We were hoping that by now many would come here with a complex package in front of the House, and they would bring me here with this draft infringement law. There won't be a solution, and again because you can't see beyond your own nose. Criminalisation alone is not the answer. The system of care should be developed, permissions and tools should be put into the hands of social workers so that these institutions can accommodate as many people as possible. Get these people in there, but make sure they can be held in there. As long as people are forced to do nothing else with the system, it's only a bill that threatens to collapse if it's not respected or respected. If only a group in opposition is possible, however, we will do everything we can to ensure that this missing leg, which you clearly ignore, is created. We have also tabled amendments to the 2019 budget on this subject, in case you have a conscience, in case you realise that these additions are absolutely necessary to achieve this goal, namely that no person in Hungary should be condemned to live on the streets, because the ultimate goal would be, after all, this, my fellow Members. My fellow Members, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and Mr Tamás Sneider, have tabled, among other things, an amendment to the budget of 19 in which an additional source is proposed in order to enable the municipalities and civil society organisations to complete their constitutional task. In their amendment, my fellow Members proposed that some of these operating grants should also be allocated to the creation of new seats, the necessary development of existing ones and the cost of housing services. In our view, the proposal for an infringement law before us would be eligible only for this, including this addition. Several of us note the amendment tabled to the budget in Jobbik's group, in which we aim to improve wages for workers in the social sphere, with a budget of HUF 30 billion. Orbán promised these people in 2010 that the wage problem would be settled immediately, but nothing had changed in 2018. We have come to the point, dear fellow Members, that 93,000 workers and their families are now in an emergency. We have come this far as a result of your hopeless governance. Let them finally realize that the tolerance of professional professionals cannot be abused indefinitely, and that the failure to raise wages leads to the collapse of the sector, especially if they come up with such unrespectable ideas or laws! All three of our proposals in this budget, honourable Members of the Fidesz, should only show a small degree of restraint in the area of government propaganda and stadium construction. Try with him, we ask you to accept these amending budgets, do not sweep them off the table, and note that these amendments are precisely the foot I have missed in this speech on this draft infringement law. I do not say that the adoption of these amendments will stop this leg, but with the inclusion of budgetary amendments, they could at least demonstrate their commitment to really solve this tumultuous problem, and not just a misconception again. I'm asking you to try to get past your own shadow for once. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-104	Thank you very much, Mr János Stummer. I give the floor to Congressman József Attila Móring, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2018-07-03-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I express my hope that, contrary to what has just been said, this regulation will be able to achieve results in the resolution of homelessness. However, in order to succeed, both the effective involvement of the police and the institutional system to assist the homeless, including civil and charitable organisations and established churches, all of them need their expertise and the willingness of the homeless to cooperate. By amending the Fundamental Law, the governing parties have taken a significant and decisive step to resolve a serious problem. We all know what this is about: the parks, public areas of the cities, the subways and streets of Budapest are used by homeless people in a way of life. We all know that what we see is not good for the homeless or for the people who are also affected. We cannot go past this social problem, because it is necessary to ensure decent living conditions for homeless people and the protection of public order, public security, public health and cultural values for those who use the public area concerned. We do not help the dignity of homeless people by letting them live on the streets, but by providing us with the right conditions and an accessible supply system. It is hardly possible to list exhaustively what causes lead to homelessness. It can be caused by a deterioration in health, alcoholism, drug use, divorce or even over-reliance. [[13.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The KDNP fraction agrees that the current situation is unacceptable and that common thinking and a number of measures are necessary to resolve it. In order to comply with the proposed amendment of the Fundamental Law, this amendment of the non-compliance with the rule of non-compliance is necessary in order to amend the rule of non-compliance. The new legislative provisions have already been made known by the speakers before me, from which I would only draw attention once again to the following. If, in the course of an on-the-spot measure, the person who is living in a public area cooperates with the assistance offered by the present authority or other body in order to benefit homeless persons, the infringement shall not be carried out. Therefore, the aim of the measure is not to punish the homeless, but to offer adequate institutional assistance and assistance to the homeless. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government and the charitable organisations are currently able to provide supplies to thousands of homeless people, which in many cases is being denied because of the rejection of the homeless. In essence, sociological research finds that most homeless people do not go to accommodation because they have nowhere to go, but because they do not want to. However, it is not a choice, no one can choose to live on the streets. It is our responsibility to protect those who are in a bad situation or to lift them from this condition. In Hungary, 9800 night shelters and temporary shelters are available for the homeless, in addition to which, in winter, they provide an additional 1500 additional shelters. In addition, there are more than 7,600 living-room heating capacity available nationwide, a rehabilitation facility for homeless people and a home for 446 homeless persons for persons requiring more long-term care. The government will continue to provide the necessary conditions for the operation of the supply system in the next year's budget, as it has done so far, to ensure a sufficient number of accommodation facilities and adequate accommodation space. The KDNP fraction supports the proposed bill. Please support me. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Móring. From the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, the keynote speech will be given by Mr Lajos Korózs. [[György Hubay, standing in the corridor between the benches in the meeting room and the boxes, calls in the Chamber.]]
u2018-07-03-107	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Before I go into the details, a few unsearched sentences. The first is: social problems cannot be solved by law enforcement means, this is the starting point. The elimination of street homelessness cannot be solved by punishment; this is the second. Third, people on the street live on the street because they don't have enough income to finance their own housing. These people were not born with all their desire to be homeless and live in the subway as adults. My last comment is that I see that the recent measures of the government will provide replacements on conveyor belts; all the more so, because if we look at them, more than a thousand implementations have already taken place this year, where families have been unable to pay their repayments, and according to my knowledge, the National Bank reports that there are 122 thousand families with over 90 days of late loan repayments. From now on, we can rest assured that there will be reinforcements in this area. In detail, I would like to say the following to this House. As many people here have mentioned... [[The president's ringing the bell. György Hubay is leaving the room on the phone.]] Thank you for your help, Mr. President. As many have mentioned, the most recent amendment of the Fundamental Law is prohibited from autumn, or more specifically from 15 October, in the public domain, and, in this context, local government regulations should not designate specific areas where there is a ban on living in a public area, as it will be generally prohibited. Since this offence has been transferred to criminal offences which may also be punishable by detention, the substantive decision will fall within the jurisdiction of the court. The pre-trial preparatory procedure shall be conducted by the police in accordance with the general rules, while the execution of the court's decision shall be carried out by the general infringement authority. On the spot, the police, the district and district office's authorised administrator, public area inspector, et cetera, et cetera, can take action in the future. What is a new element that avoids punishment: if the person cooperates with the help offered by the present authority or other body in order to benefit homeless persons, then the infringement will also not take place. It's not clear to me what the government means by that, because it didn't explain that. For example, if you accept street social work as a help or care, which is considered to be the use of care for homeless people, you will still remain in public territory. If he's legally allowed to stay there, then the Authority is making a joke about the Fundamental Law. The question is, how long does this opportunity last, or is it mandatory to take it to the hostel? What if there's no room? There is not enough room, because my fellow Member, dear friends, Mr Attila Móring said that we are talking about 30-32 thousand homeless people in Hungary, and we are not just talking about those who live on the streets. There are 3.5-4 thousand people in Hungary on the street, but the number of potential homeless people exceeds 30,000. Today there are 11 200 seats in Hungary. Living room warmers should not be counted here in this form, and occasional accommodations, because it does not provide a real cover for these people. It was previously stated in the provision annulled by the Constitutional Court that the infringement cannot be established if the municipality responsible for carrying out the task does not provide the conditions for homelessness. Perhaps that was what they wanted to put in a different way, but this was not found in the proposal either. At the same time, the government cannot leave its own trap because it will essentially continue to depend on what happens to homeless people living on the streets, that the authorities enforce the laws. Because it is difficult to expect homeless people to move away just to comply with the Fundamental Law or the Violent Law, especially because they have nowhere else to go. I would add that if the government had wanted it, it would have enforced this tough regulation. Compared to this, this has not really happened in the last two years, which, in some sense, shows some kind of humanity from the authorities: and the pointlessness of regulation; and on the other hand, it proves that this is a campaign of haughtiness and a new level of scapegoat training, together with the fact that the banning of homelessness in the constitution is inhuman and is not a human, non-ethical step in any society based on Christian traditions. It cannot be emphasized enough that the problem of homelessness cannot be dealt with by law enforcement, as I referred to in my introduction. This is a complex problem that requires social policy and housing policy solutions, among other things. Dear House, Let's see what the Fidesz has done to the homeless. The story began with the law on the formation and protection of the built environment in 2010 authorising local governments to declare non-compliance in the settlement, and then the further tightening of the law on non-compliance came in 2011, which led to the possibility of punishing a homeless person for up to HUF 150,000 who has repeatedly committed crimes against the law; then they could be punished. [[13.30]] In the capital city, for example, there were 50,000 forints for the purpose of being living in the public area. On the submission of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, Professor Máté Szabó, in November 2012, the Constitutional Court annulled the pass that declared homelessness an infringement. Ab stated that it is incompatible with the protection of human dignity governed by the Fundamental Law if the State itself punishes the fact that a person lives in public territory as a result of coercion. That's what the Constitutional Court said in its decision. Homelessness is a social problem, as I have referred to, which the state must deal with with the means of social administration, social welfare, not punishment. According to the Constitutional Court, once again, I quote that neither the removal of homeless people from public areas nor the promotion of the use of social benefits can be regarded as a constitutional reason for declaring that homeless people live in public areas in breach of the rule of law. That's what the Constitutional Court said. The body also annulled the legal provisions which gave the municipalities the power to adopt a regulation to take anti-communicative practices which could be fined. TÁSZ, Honourable House, I am talking earlier about the date of entry into force of the Act of Violation on 15 April 2012 and 21 November 2012 was the date of the request for data between the Constitutional Court's decision, and it turned out that 2,200 people were prosecuted with such a title, and in more than 1,500 cases, a total fine of HUF 40 million was imposed. According to sociologists, there is actually no legal barrier to the persecution of homelessness by the authorities, so the Fundamental Law should not have been amended. Another issue is that the rules are not enforced in practice. It is true that the ombudsman's report previously stated that punishment was not the main objective; the authority used the legislative amendments to drive the homeless away from areas where they could disturb the inhabitants of the city. Dear House, It is worth noting what the Constitutional Court has said about the previous rules, since a similar general prohibition has already been contained in the Violent Law, but it has been declared by the Constitutional Court to be against the law. I quote, I think it's 38/2012. This is an Ab decision: the wording of the facts suggests that the legislator created this fact in order to protect public order. Protection of public order may be a constitutional interest for which the legislator provides for the application of an infringement penalty. The fact that one lives in the public domain alone, does not violate the rights of others, does not harm, does not endanger the proper use of the public domain, does not endanger public order. In order to sanction behaviour which violates the rights of others in the use of the public domain, public order is threatened, the Code of Violation establishes a number of separate facts, such as begging, disturbance of the peace, violation of public security, et cetera, et cetera, endangerment with dogs, violation of public policy and disorderly conduct... so that the homeless who use the public territory in a way that threatens public order can be punished. So there was absolutely no need for these motions that you brought to Parliament. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The Constitutional Court's argument on municipal benefits also exists in the case of this proposal, as it also depends on the functioning or absence of homeless care, that it is an infringement of public property. To confirm that, let's look at what the civilians have said about the government's latest hate campaign, because I can't call it anything else. I'm quoting civilians. In Hungary, about 30,000 people are homeless. So it's not just me, it's the CSOs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But there's only room for a fraction of them in the accommodations. The country has 11,200 seats in total, so there are three times more homeless than the place. The situation is not the worst in Budapest, it is even worse in the countryside. There's a constant firefight. A lasting solution would require a lot more money. This is where I close the opinion of the civilians. Today, more people in a hotel are locked together in one airspace, typically in four or more multi-bedded rooms, sometimes even with bunk beds. In Hungary there is only one institution where the resident can be in the room alone. It would require a maximum of double rooms, but until the intimate sphere is secured, the homeless prefer to choose the street instead of the accommodations. And it's kind of hard to get into paying accommodations, and there's a very long waiting list in a lot of places. I mentioned it yesterday in the hour of immediate questioning, when it was about the seats, I was talking about the same elderly care. Please, they're waiting in a hundred order for paid accommodations, homeless people. That's one of my findings. The other is that there are Roma in homeless shelters today to an unprecedented extent, which was almost unimaginable, say, a decade ago, because they accepted each other within a family or within relatives, and there are an awful lot of elderly people. There's never been a homeless shelter as old as last year or this year. Some say that the state is becoming less and less supportive of civilians because it wants to upset civil society organisations instead of supporting those who take on these burdens. It is also important to note that even though a homeless person works as a public employee, he cannot settle his life and housing, as he makes as much as he makes for the rent for the cheapest apartments in Budapest and, let's say, half the rent. From 54,000 forints a month, you can't even rent a room in Budapest. Dear fellow Members, We have to agree with those who think it is outrageous that Fidesz hasn't had a single answer to the problem for a decade but that homeless people have to be locked up or punished. I think that the elimination of homelessness, the promotion of ways out of homelessness, should be a fundamental humane goal for all governments. Unfortunately, the Orbán government is spending less and less on supporting and raising the poorest, and even making their lives difficult through legislation. In recent years, the government has not approached the issue of homelessness from a social policy or housing policy point of view, but merely wanted to deal with it by law enforcement. It is not a good solution for anyone to live on the street or in other rooms not covered or covered, but not to a minimum, for housing purposes. This does not guarantee the human dignity of homeless people, nor does it intelligibly interfere with other users of the public domain. Despite all government rumours, there are no conditions today for no man to have to live on the streets, neither the number of seats nor the quality of them are adequate, just as complex solutions that represent ways out can only be achieved by mistake. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We do not support this bill, as many have already mentioned. However, we are also submitting quite a number of amendments to the Budget Act. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support these amendments in part tomorrow before the People's Welfare Committee, partly before the Committee on Enterprise Development and Budget, whether it is about raising the norm of social catering, financing of public kitchens or making proposals to ensure the number of people in the living room. I'm asking you to support them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2018-07-03-108	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2018-07-03-109	Mr President, Dear House, This proposal is not about ending homelessness, but about punishing homelessness, but it is about a single voice difference, but it is about burning and earth. It shows that you are not looking for a solution in this area, but only political propaganda. They enjoy bragging about their own Christianity, the old - fashioned Christian democracy, but in fact, they did not understand much of the history of the merciful Samaritan. They do not understand the root and message of mercy, solidarity with the poor, not only Christian or Jewish, but also deeply humanist. Ladies and gentlemen, What you're doing right now is political filth. They kick the most miserable, the poorest, our most difficult countrymen for some political gain. [[13.40]] You don't support anything that would help prevent homelessness. They did not support the extension of the eviction moratorium; they have no solution to the problems of foreign exchange lenders; they have no solution to how to help those who are seriously affected by extremely high accounts. At the same time, they want to punish victims, those who are already on the street, those who are already lying on the ground. They really don't leave anyone at the edge of the ditch, they kick another one to get deep into it. Plus, that rule doesn't solve anything. So far, you have quoted the right of the local authorities to regulate the presence of homeless people in public areas, to punish them, to punish them. There were regulations like that, rules like that, but beyond a brief action, these things don't make any sense. This rule, therefore, is not only inhuman and violating, but also pointless. Ladies and gentlemen, Homeless people don't go to homeless shelters because they don't want to. Spend not one night, an hour at a homeless shelter, not arriving with a prime minister's convoy. Look at the conditions there, and of course not all the hostels are true; that is what Congressman Korózs was talking about, how difficult it is to get into a good hostel. Speak a few words to homeless people, and they'll realize that no one chooses to freeze on the streets for their own pleasure, the humiliation, the situation of homelessness. The reason these people stay on the street is because they don't have a choice, because society doesn't offer them, if you like, the government, an opportunity that would lead back from this situation. Many of them are sick, even mentally injured, who need help, extra support, but not from you, but from you, but only from further slaps and humiliation. Of course, I know now they're gonna bring the police that deserve a better fate into the subways to take care of the homeless. I saw this start yesterday. This, of course, will mean some cosmetics in the street image for the interim elections and then for the big municipal elections. The game of cat and mouse will begin, chasing people, taking one or two of them to the homeless shelter, from which, after a few hours or a few days, they will return to the streets in a much worse mental state, usually freed from a bed and a blanket. They're going to impose meaningless punishments that are either ridiculous or ridiculous. They will solve by locking people in prison, for whom it is easy to find the best accommodation and care they have had for years; or they will accumulate a series of unenforceable violations decisions, since they will be lost, and these people will disappear. What's the point, fellow Members? And then let's not even talk about forcing police officers worthy of a better fate to chase and kill homeless people. I have to tell you, it is a heartbreaking sight to have two of these 100-pound cops standing in front of a 40-50-pound man. And this is humiliating not only for those who are the victims of this administrative procedure, but also for the police themselves. They didn't swear to do this, they chose this profession not to hurt the weak, but to protect the weak. From now on, the police will no longer have the power to deal with meaningful tasks, such as preventing public crime. I have to say, it's a good thing the refugee crisis is about to end, because there wouldn't be a policeman on the border if they were chasing the homeless with them. It can also be seen, for example, that Mrs Ágnes Vadai spoke about the lack of substantial police force for border protection tasks in the border section adjacent to Ukraine, but only for the machination of propaganda. [[Károly Kontra: It's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen, If, therefore, the government really were to eliminate or at least reduce homelessness, this goal and this activity would surely be supported by the Democratic Coalition, but unfortunately this is not the case. We can't go together, work with you, if you're trying to punish homelessness, poverty. We can't work with you if you're looking for a different opportunity and a different option for the homeless, not by humane means, but by means of law enforcement, not by means of humane means. I ask you to be ashamed and withdraw this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-07-03-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You're not Christians, you're not Catholics. You probably didn't read a single line of the Bible, or, if possible, you didn't understand a single thought. I think that this bill makes perfect sense. It's amazing to watch. I'll tell you why I'm saying this. Because you're going to hide behind the fact that the presence of homeless people on the street is a risk, the presence of homeless people on the street is a public health issue, and that it increases the experience of people living here that crime is happening in front of their eyes. And I'm telling you that if you had a very minimal, and of course it didn't mean that Christians had good intentions or a sense of responsibility for every layer of society, then you wouldn't want to criminalize, punish, not clean up, sweep away the problem with a sorghum broom, or at least provide an alternative. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are not trying to do that. Many of my fellow keynote speakers have said that the homeless do not go into the homeless shelter in good spirits, and I think that there are a lot of steps that could significantly improve the quality of life of our fellow citizens, whose daily existence is risky at the moment, who face problems that he may be homeless tomorrow, or those who are living in the open air at the moment. What am I talking about? I am talking about the fact that, by the way, there has been a great deal of development in the area of homelessness in recent years. Mr. Secretary of State Kontra, with all due respect, I came to Parliament as a member of the capital, I came here, I know exactly all the weaknesses and strengths of the supply system in the capital. Believe me, as long as you cannot achieve it, because there is no resources in the current budget, I would add that the hygiene of these supply facilities should reach the minimum level, so that you do not expect this to provide any alternative to homeless people. As long as they can't get a trace of property security, personal security in these places, they shouldn't be surprised that homeless people don't use these services. But I'll tell you more. You have failed me to believe that you did not want to solve all the consequences of the foreign exchange credit crisis. We know exactly that in two steps, forinted in the second step, in the first step you consider this work done with the end-payment. I mean, between this work and very serious quotes, the work has been done, because the rest of the work has not been done by tens of thousands of families, whose daily lives are being made difficult by when the evictor comes, when the banks will take the apartment from the top of their heads. [[13.50]] What I see is that you are either not interested in solving this or simply not aware of this problem in your own selfishness. There's a way. The LMP submitted it to the budget of this year last year, and we submitted for next year's budget again this year that the Hungarian government should establish a housing fund. This should, by the way, and from this point of view, only the social housing is interesting here, but not only the social rental apartments should be built. I think that even as a Fidesz representative, there is a relatively small chance that a homeless person can buy their own property in today's Hungarian Budapest, Szeged or even in a rural settlement. I think that if you were Christians, at least you would have tried to find a solution for these people. But you have released the hands of the detaching layers of society, one in one, as my fellow Member said. Not only did they leave no one on the side of the road, but they even kicked them. They have done nothing for these people, even though there is an opportunity and a source to provide them with meaningful help. I think that while this is the case, let us be honest not to punish and criminalise homeless people, but to those Members of Parliament who believe that it is punishment that can solve a social issue instead of a solution. I must admit, I'm personally ashamed of you. As a Christian, as a Catholic, as a Member of Parliament, I am ashamed. And I really hope you'll be ashamed of yourself. Let us look at this from a slightly different perspective. I'll be brief, I promise, and I won't keep you, although the four Members who are here now, I'm sure you've taken these few minutes. What does the term "supplied" mean in particular under the legislation? How will the authority who is entitled to the procedure decide whether the person who may have fallen asleep at the bus stop after 16 hours of work has fallen asleep in a way of life, or if he is sleeping there in a way of life? Well, let's face it, it doesn't matter. If I'm going to Kossuth Square to eat a sandwich I'm planning for lunch, how does someone decide that I'm eating my sandwich life-style? [[Gergely Harvesto: We'll find out in prison!]] Did I just eat my lunch at Kossuth Square or just outside Kossuth Square? Gentlemen, you are playing a very bad joke on this country. Shame and shame! This bill cannot be supported, but it is a shame that it has been tabled. I think that we should talk about this next time when you show openness to the fact that you want to help these layers back then by making a significant improvement in the supply system, by implementing the rent-apartment programme or by raising the wages promised by social workers, but never realized! In the meantime, I want you to take it back, and I really want you to be ashamed of yourselves. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-07-03-112	Thank you very much, Congressman Csárdi. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to Mrs Anita Kőrösi.
u2018-07-03-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the general debate, we have heard several approaches to this bill. Allow me to guide you to Siófok, the capital of Lake Balaton, one of the outstanding small towns from a tourist point of view, and give you a little insight into how this is going on there, not in Budapest, but in a frequented settlement. I worked as a deputy mayor before I became a congressman. Now I can tell you three years when I got an invitation in November. This invitation is for the homeless hostel's Christmas celebration. I hope you feel it, and your hearts are a little tight when you spend Christmas at the homeless shelter, a celebration of love, these people. When poems and songs are spoken, tears flow out of everyone's eyes. Most of the people, as my fellow Members have said, are in this situation without their own fault and are trying to get out of it, but it is not always possible. Remaining in Siofok's example. Here we are in the middle of the summer tourist season, and in the summer of 2014 they handed over the renovated homeless shelter and night shelter. The night shelter is open from 1 November of each year until 30 April of the following year, only then will it function as a night shelter. Now we're here on July 2nd, tonight the homeless shelter isn't open. We hope that this bill will enter into force on 15 October, but let us assume that this bill will enter into force, and that it will not be open on 16 October, then for the first time on 1 November. Congressman Moring said that the government is offering suitable institutions for the homeless. When, as opposition representatives, we presented the mayor and the head of the institution to ensure that this homeless hostel not only functions as a daytime warmer during summer and spring autumn, but also be open as a night shelter, the pro-government majority swept this down and did not ensure it. We're talking about 10-15 million forints, so it's not a big sum. I trust that sooner or later in the institutional system there will be the possibility that whoever lives on the street does not have to sleep there, that the police will not come to him, and that they will not be destroyed. And when you get a phone from a homeless person to ask for help, or when a mother of a family is abused and needs to flee home, and you come crying to give her a place to stay because she's on the street with her child; the guardianship takes the child, of course. In the year of families, do we have to talk about how children will be torn away and raised in the Institute? This is a disaster! I always say there's nothing lower than this, but you prove there's always a lower level. Well, let's take a look at the human side of this. Let's see what they can do. And then let's not just talk about the need for proper specialist care and infrastructure. We also need professionals here, a lot of addicts. Let's face it, these people, they're poor when they're driven into addiction by this life situation. We definitely need solutions. This bill does not provide a solution to homelessness. It's sad enough that we've come this far, that you want to solve this problem by law enforcement. I trust that your good intentions will come to light sooner or later, and we will experience that this situation can be handled and put down concrete solutions that we will be able to support. They're not. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-114	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. I now give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the representative of the Dialogue, and then to Mr László Hajdu's two-minute meeting. [[14.00]]
u2018-07-03-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My colleague, colleague, Bence Tordai, applied for a keynote speech, but he had to leave, and I would just like to state the position of the Dialogue faction for the sake of the minutes. I think I'm better off with my pro-government colleagues. Obviously, we will not support this bill, we believe that social problems cannot be solved by criminal and police means. Obviously, it would be necessary to increase homelessness, with appropriate social policy instruments, and to increase the number of social workers, my fellow Members here in their keynotes said these things, and I do not want to repeat them, to expand the social housing programme. There are many good examples of this in Scandinavian countries. You often take examples of international law when amending various laws, and there is also a lot of good practice in foreign countries that could be taken over. They're not that active. [[István Szávay is replaced by Dr. László Varga in the notary seat.]] Obviously, a real fund manager is needed to take over the apartments that have fallen in and lease them to the residents at a cheaper rate. It would also be necessary to introduce a long-standing proposal for dialogue, the basic income. This would prevent people from being able to pay their bills, so lose their apartments or not be able to buy the most basic food. So the Dialogue faction will not support this bill. Thank you.
u2018-07-03-116	Thank you, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu for two minutes, DK.
u2018-07-03-117	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I think that homelessness is like the law of energy retention: whatever we do with it, it doesn't get lost, it transforms, it becomes a prisoner, or I don't know what, but we can't really do much with it. Let me tell you that in my opinion, there is a kind of homelessness that is not yet without shelter, living in an apartment, but they are practically living homeless. This is very crowded in Budapest, who come to the free kitchen with children, because it is simply not possible, it is only up to the local government's goodwill when they are evicted. These are usually local government tenants as well. They can't pay anything, so electricity, everything's off in the apartment, they don't see TV, they don't watch anything. There is a homeless man who lives without a roof, somewhere in the woods, in a bush; right now, there is a law against living in the woods. We basically don't know what's gonna happen. In the city, these homeless people flee to the outer districts, so the transformation means that the outer districts are full of homeless people. For example, Budapest XV. That's the way it is in the district. There's about a hundred homeless people, 70 of whom are cooperative, so we know that about half of them work. This is a good income for the business sector, because these people are not announced, they simply receive some small income, they are used for something that no one is willing to do. That's what the poor bastards are doing. When we make laws and make decisions about these people, let us remember that we are human and that no one can be in this situation. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-07-03-118	Thank you, Congressman László Hajdu. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Duna for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2018-07-03-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the opposition here, I have the impression, unfortunately, that you want to keep the homeless on the street in public areas. [[An uproar from the opposition benches.]] Today, yes, we are talking about a police solution. But this is not the only solution to dealing with the homeless issue. This will have the same social and health implications, but we do aim to address the homeless issue not only by law enforcement but also by health, social and employment issues. This won't stop, we guarantee it. I would like to note that, in the name of Fidesz and KDNP, Antal Csárdi's comment, in which he insults and questions our faith and religion. I think that this is neither within the walls of Parliament nor outside the walls of Parliament is appropriate or inappropriate. It's like, and I'm not saying it on my behalf, someone's questioning, say, your manhood, whether it's a man. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] I think it was a very harsh statement like this, and I would ask you to refrain from such things in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-120	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát, Jobbik, for two minutes.
u2018-07-03-121	Mr President, Dear House, My hand wasn't on the button, but I would like to say that what the government is doing in this debate amazes me. Congresswoman, do you intend to know people on the street? Now, if you'll excuse me, what have you been reading, or what have you been listening to for the last half hour? What they're doing is absolutely amazing. If you were serious about what you're talking about, you wouldn't be trying to reassure us that someday you'd be working on other tools, not just law enforcement, but social and health tools. Congresswoman, why didn't you put it down in a package? Why isn't he in front of us? I would immediately vote in favour of the salad law in which the package is included, in addition to their law enforcement tools, because I do not want to maintain the homelessness in its present form, I do not want these people to be in such a situation, or others to be forced into such a situation. But to treat this as a matter of law and order in itself, otherwise it is truly inhuman, yes. You can ask opposition representatives, it's not my job to protect them, to question your faith or determination. You can tell my fellow man that this is like questioning his masculinity. Well, the thing is, your prime minister has had eyebrow clippings, Congresswoman, you've run a full election campaign. I don't find this so funny when you weren't forced to use such despicable means, against which, by the way, a Member cannot defend himself. 'Cause now how do you prove he's straight? Do you do the activity in front of the cameras that you can use? [[Defiance.]] I do not want the Hungarian policy to go to this, because we should now be discussing a package of proposals based on a professional basis, which brings not only from a police point of view, but also health and social aspects, a package, and, for example, does not put evicted foreign exchange victims in a more impossible position than they are. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-122	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State for Home Affairs.
u2018-07-03-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for this because the debate has taken a turn that, I think, does not bring us close to solving this serious problem, and it also offends the people you are talking about with such great determination. I would first like to respond to the comment of Mr János Stummer, who was the lead speaker of Jobbik, and he raised the lie that this was due to the Yózsefváros campaign. You know, Congressman, that the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law requires this amendment of the law, the amendment of the law on infringements, this has nothing to do with this campaign. That's what I'd like to record here. It must also be said that I hope that my fellow Members agree with me that the current situation is not good for anyone. Neither is it good for residents who wish to use public areas, nor for homeless people, because they must live on the streets, and even the conditions of public cleanliness you have said justify the need for a bill. My colleague, Mr Moring, told me that there are 9800 night shelters, a further 1,500 homes for temporary accommodations, a nationwide 7600 day-old, 218-seat rehabilitation facilities, and a home for homeless people with 446 seats. But that doesn't matter. What matters is the use of these accommodations. This shows the real situation, which shows that anyone who wants can go into these seats. I'll give you an update, according to data from January 1 to March 18, 2018, the use of night shelters... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, I've made a normal comment, Mr. President, and I'd like to continue.
u2018-07-03-124	Here, let's hear it.
u2018-07-03-125	Thank you very much, thank you for the opportunity. [[14.10]] So the use of night shelters was 76.3% on the national average, Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, this is a self-spoken number, and temporary accommodations are 83.8 percent, so there is capacity. Anyone who wants to go into these quarters can go in. I would also like to state here that the goal is not to shut down the homeless. The one who says that is lying. The goal is to use this supply system. As far as the budgetary situation is concerned, Congressman, I would like to say that in recent years we have spent HUF 9 billion on caring for the homeless. [[Antal Csárdi: Not enough!]] , an appropriate amount is also available in the 2019 budget, and I call for the support of the budget for whom it is really important to support this issue in this way. Then I would also like to turn to the comments of Mr Lajos Korózs MSZP, and I would also like to respond to that. Congressman, you know, the credibility of what you have said in my mind is that if you see the solution so clearly, you are so well aware of what you should have done, for example, between 2002 and 2010, you, who were the Secretary of State. [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties.]] If he knew the answer, why didn't they solve it? [[Lajos Korózs: He was not in such a shameful situation as he is now!]] They didn't solve it. On the other hand, in 2011, we introduced the work programme and launched our public employment programme, which also received a number of criticisms. Congressman Stummer, you weren't a member of Parliament at the time, but I was here, and your faction attacked you, all opposition groups attacked our public employment solution, the work programme, instead of the help. Everyone now acknowledges that this has contributed to the fact that people who have been involved in public employment programs have found the meaning of their lives, have been able to support their families and have lived a meaningful life ever since. The 2019 budget also has a significant amount of HUF 180 billion at the disposal of this programme. I think it speaks for itself, too. We also managed to protect the country, they said it couldn't be solved. We have also found a solution to the migrant crisis, which is now recognised by Europe. This problem, which is a serious problem. In response to Mrs Potocska's comments, you said that this proposal was not good. You are Members of Parliament. Dániel Z. Kárpát is a routine representative. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Thank you!]] You know that they have the opportunity to submit an amendment to this bill. Please, I urge you to do so. Here, I'd like to return to Lajos Korózs. The congressman spoke of the dignity of the homeless. I admit it's very important that we respect the question of these hard-working people, but that doesn't mean that they can get extra licenses. They deserve extra help. We have also said that the purpose of this proposal is also to make use of these forms of supply. Congressman Gergely Arató, you were talking about how we would put the police in such an unworthy position that it would be their duty to execute these people. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's exactly right!]] Honourable Congressman, I would like to tell you, in answer to you and to this House, that our government has always used the police only to carry out the tasks provided for by law, and I should like to thank the police for their staff. On the other hand, you were in the autumn of 2006, for example on 23 October 2006... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, don't talk about 2006.]] Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, listen to me. [[Lőrinc Nacsa, pointing to opposition benches: Are you protecting them?]] That's right, that proves where the wind blows. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: If he has a different opinion, then he must be exterminated, right? We should sit in Parliament with a little smaller breast. You're talking to a lady!]] So on October 23, 2006, you used the police illegally. They took the police to the peaceful, celebrating people, we all know that. So don't tell me we're using it illegally and putting the police in an unworthy position. We have never done this, because we have a much greater sense of responsibility, and we obey the laws, we are a law-abiding government and acting in the interests of Hungary. Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP. He used to tell us that we were ashamed. Congressman, I think that your acting may be worthy of a good mark, but you didn't take what you said seriously either, because you referred to the fact that you know this system as a metropolitan representative, you know its advantages and disadvantages. If that is so, I do not doubt this, then you know that this is a serious problem, and we must find the rules together to solve it. Assume that we have tabled this proposal with fair intentions for the purpose of solving it, and once again, the aim is not to shut these people down, the aim is to get them to use it, and the co-operatives will not suffer any legal disadvantage, honourable Member. What you are saying about housing is that, in the absence of income, it is not a solution to securing a rental. The first task is to have a roof over their heads, so that no one on the street freezes, so that no one in the public area can live in a lifestyle. There's a program, by the way. As far as public employment is concerned, I would like to say that there is a programme for the homeless right now. We would like to extend this, we would like you to go into the accommodations first, stay there, and then later participate in these programs, so that you can move on, so that you can create conditions to ensure your livelihood and accommodation from your own income. I think that this is a humane goal. If that's what you think, then please support this. As far as the concept of lifestyle residence is concerned, you also said that there is no definition of this concept, Congressman, right? Let me refer to the current infringement law, which contains this concept. This concept remains unchanged, including any behaviour which implies a long stay without the intention to return to a place of residence or other accommodation; and as far as the public population taking action is concerned, they have experience to be able to judge. You can also judge that a person who eats a sandwich on the street does not live in the public domain, as he himself refers to the practice of the capital, but I can also judge that the man who is lying in the doorway on the mattress, on the papers or on whatever, and there is a Tesco bag next to him, well, he is a life-style. But he who licks an ice cream... So you're relativizing and you're trying to make this problem frivolous. This is a serious problem that we will be able to solve. I'm asking you to support this. As to Mrs Potocsány's contribution, I would like to say that HUF 4 billion is available in the operational programme to support people in need for the feeding of the homeless. For example, as one of the accompanying measures, hundreds of millions of forints are available for addictologists, psychiatrists in 18 and 19 as well. Just to give you an example, you mentioned the example of Siófok, and said as a lack that these professionals could not be used: the source of these is there. As regards the public security of Budapest, I would like to say that the figures show a gradual improvement. Even nationally, if we compare the current figures to 2010, we can say that the number of crimes that have become known has decreased by nearly 50 percent from 438 thousand both nationally and in Budapest. For example, the number of crimes has decreased by almost 33 percent compared to 14. So I think that these numbers are also important figures, they speak for themselves, and we always say that we have achieved serious results in public security, but that in order to have the same results tomorrow, we should have the same good public security, and we must do even more tomorrow than we did today or yesterday. So we are determined, in this regard, to provide the source side of this, the personal, physical and material conditions. And as for the rental building program, I will return to Antal Csárdi once again. For those of you who are in a good mental state and have sufficient income, there is a support program running now, perhaps you know that. Within the framework of the Human Resources Development Operational Programme, EFOP, the so-called "First Deployment" programme is implemented, in which it is possible to help homeless people live on the streets into separate homes. The envelope available for support varies according to convergence regions. HUF 1 billion is available in the Central Hungary region and 11 grant contracts have already been concluded in the convergence region. [[14.20]] So we want to use all possible means to solve this serious problem. Once again, I would like to say that we are absolutely open to any proposal that leads to a solution to the problem. There was a comment on the property security and the safety of their lives of homeless people entering the hostel. Congressman, we will consider all proposals. We also consider it important not to have a deterrent force, so that if you go into the homeless shelter, your personal belongings may disappear from there, those one or two bags of objects, personal items, items of use that are necessary for your everyday life. We will consider what we can do more to ensure that such situations do not occur. So once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take this problem seriously and to see that the government's objective is to achieve the solution in a humane way, united with the established churches, and I would like to highlight this. Once again, I say to Congressman, that we are ashamed of ourselves and that you are Catholic... I am a Catholic, and I am not boasting to him, honourable Member, but I am also doing everything in my power to represent this serious problem in a humane and humane way, and to reach a solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-126	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Károly Kontra. [[For signal:]] Look at me, Congressman Gergely Arató, but I will only be able to give you two minutes in the next round. The next speaker is Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2018-07-03-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mary and Joseph found no lodgings in Bethlehem. Jesus was born in a manger, which now tells us that he can think with a Christian eye, thinking with a Christian soul, who never forgets that the Savior also came into the world homeless. When you presented the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law and introduced a ban on residence in that public domain, the first thought we had in the Jobbik faction was that the solution to the homeless issue on Christian grounds might finally begin. We thought that next week, say, a Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources would call a seven-party meeting and present a package to us, politicians who are responsible, whether we are pro-government or opposition, for all our countrymen who have lost their ability to assert their interests, who have lost the most important conditions of their lives, the home, the possibility of rest, the possibility of hygiene, a healthy life, a healthy food. A Christian man never forgets that the son of God began his life as a homeless man. There is not a single person in Hungary who wants homeless people to live on the streets and in public areas, but does not want it because the sight is not beautiful, but does not want it because these people are our brothers and their lives, no matter why we have no right to judge that they have no home. In this Parliament, in particular, we must lay hands on all of them, that I will not solve your fate by sending the first policeman to you, and introducing you to a lodging where your possessions have been taken away three or four times by the looters, but this can happen by holding your hand and introducing you to a place that serves to protect your human dignity, food, and your tiny possessions. Anyone who's ever talked to a single homeless person in his life knows that they don't use the accommodation for a long time because they're deprived of their little benefit, and for them, a tweezer is a value to us as a car. For them, a warm sweater is as valuable as our house. But this is not the way you chose to invite us to a meeting, and we would have figured out together as representatives of a strong, growing, well-performing Hungary, because we hear these adjectives every day, as we can spend billions on communication, to sit down together and figure out how this is going to work. When all the homeless people really have decent lodgings, we have indeed personally been convinced that, yes, we can introduce them not to live on the streets, but not because the sight is bad, but because we cannot tolerate as humans that they should bow their heads there and live in such conditions! If you'd started out like this, then this is the law you put here, the last act, not the first act. And then I didn't even talk about professional issues because there's probably going to be a detailed debate in the Commission, and there I'm going to tell you that, by the way, you were prepared to see how these people will be received by the prison. Did you like to prepare for the delivery of the decision to go to work in the public interest, and how will you be in a position to accept it or not? And then I could list the legal anomalies for which this legislation will otherwise not be enforceable, just as countless laws cannot be implemented, which will be submitted to this House. Károly Kontra is offended every week when I say that we have managed to put together another piece of work, because it is, but I will not offend him again today, and I will talk about it in detail at the committee meeting. All I can say now is that this is for everything, but not for the purpose that has been performed here in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, would like to speak for two minutes.
u2018-07-03-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea! I would like to reassure you and ask you not to talk so passionately about this very important issue, too, in a spirit of anger. And the other thing I would like to say to you, and I would like to point out to you, Members of Parliament, is that you have the ability, in the framework of your audit functions, to take account of this bill, if it becomes a law, whether it be implemented in committee or in plenary, before the agenda, on an immediate question, in interpellation, on oral questions or on written questions. We have the parliamentary genres that allow our fellow Members to exercise this control role. That's what I'm encouraging you to do. Once again, I urge you to say that if you consider this to be such a piece of work as you think it is, and insult it as much as you have said here, starting yourself up at the end, and if you really think that you would like to improve this in a benign way, and not in a Pharisee way, for the purposes of political gain, then, honourable Member, make an amendment, make an amendment, and then it is possible to discuss it. I hope that they will do so, and this can be seen not only as part of a political attraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2018-07-03-131	Mr President, Dear House, If there's someone in this room who's being irritated by the current state of the homeless issue, it's me. So I would like to stress that the situation that is happening in the cities at the moment and in Hungary at all in the wider sense is unsustainable, and the need for intervention clearly exists. In fact, even if we consider that some of our homeless countrymen have been brought on by completely unscrupulous gangs of criminals, organized and run a robbing mechanism on them, at the cost of their work, which is outrageous to me, then this intervention is actually immediate. [[14.30]] So I think that this basic position represents a majority position here in Parliament, regardless of party standing. What we are debating here, and for this reason I ask the Secretary of State to accept, we are making improvements here. A month or two after an election, who would do political attractions? Obviously, the current government's toolbox includes ribbon cuts and another government communications campaign in line with the seventh, which is what the news is about, but this isn't done by Jobbik, Mr. Secretary of State. So I think this is the time to let go of this political attraction, and I am not accusing you of it, and I must say that we are confined to what is ahead: proposals for amendments to this motion. Okay, you might consider trying to fix this, but what lies ahead? We agree that the homeless issue cannot remain so, there is a need for intervention. Here we have one of the many legs, the law enforcement leg, which uses law enforcement to steer this problem in a different direction. But we don't have the Social Foot, we don't have the Health Foot, so we don't see the government handling this problem in a system, we see it hit first and then ask questions. And the thing is, this problem cannot be solved. Here in our faction there are at least two of us, but I think that many of us, who have stood up for foreign exchange credit damage on all fronts for many years, have proved more than we all in the courtrooms to protect those who have suffered credit harm, although it is not good to enter such a competition, I myself and many of us have defended the victims at a number of eviction events when there was a clear violation against them. I speak for them, too, when I say that the homeless cannot be treated as a homogeneous mass, it is a very heterogeneous social group, including those evicted, where the family may have been torn apart, the head of the family committed suicide, and these unfortunate people have come into this perhaps treated as homogeneous mass by you, while I say that the perception of these countrymen should be placed in a very different hat than if we were to talk about dealing with a kind of life situation here. Of course, we could say that we should amend this, but, Mr Secretary of State, during the previous budget period, you said that all of them were net insanity, because none of them were accepted, if I recall correctly, eight of the nine pro-government amendments were accepted, and one that did not go over the line, but to say that more than a thousand opposition proposals contained nonsense, I think that is an exaggeration. The number of proposals that you have to decide on will still exceed half a thousand, and the majority with two thirds will have the opportunity to make that decision. So you can and must submit an amendment, but, Mr. Secretary, I wouldn't call you a man with a Pharisee attitude. [[Károly Kontra: I am honored!]] I really don't want to offend you, and that's not why I'm saying this, but given the numbers, I have to say that the justification you've given us doesn't necessarily reassure us, because so many rejected amendments clearly suggest that you don't want to accept opposition intentions. Obviously, they're not doing this out of spite, they're doing it along with political ambition, but I have to say, they could at least take the ones that are working. Take off the name of the opposition representative, submit it under the name of Fidesz, we will vote for it, and I can promise you that. With regard to the parliamentary control system, there were several immediate questions here yesterday about the brutal weakening of the forint, on the one hand, to the government and, on the other hand, to the vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank, because his president did not pay his respects, and perhaps we can see that both of them, regardless of their party position, did not make much sense yesterday's discourses. So there is this controlling power that you're talking about, and I don't doubt your words, but how much it can be used to improve processes, I question that. After all, based on yesterday's discussion, I do not see that we have been able to improve the processes, the existing, reality processes with this monitoring mechanism. I therefore ask you to present a proposal that treats the social and health legs alongside the law enforcement leg, and I believe that we will be able to vote with a good heart. That's exactly the kind of question that shouldn't be put into political debate. I agree with you, no political attractions here. This is a tough professional question, I would add: it is not my area of expertise in the first place, so I would be calm if the experts of each faction sat down for a discussion that clarified every issue in every leg, and we could freely vote on it at the end. But what we need to see is that we do not even get answers to such fundamental questions as the rental system, the lack of rentals. What we can see is that if the government of Hungary had been plagiarised with the funding of the third-time lease-building programme in Jobbik's programme, and it would have done it in a more liquefying form, we could say that if we had now isolated 5 percent of the available property, let's say, for those who are working, let's say, among the homeless, because there are many people like it or want to work, and therefore they are willing to make certain sacrifices, so they are open to getting into a system, I would say that not taken away from the young Hungarians, not from the elderly, but if there were a large unoccupied property, then it would certainly be possible to think about using it. But in particular, foreign exchange loans have been damaged, and in the case of those who have already been evicted, I insist that these people can be helped, and we have also said our improving amendment on this subject, which has been recognised earlier. My proposal is that the surplus accumulated at the Hungarian National Bank should be paid into the budget, not on an optional basis, but on a compulsory basis, on the basis of a kind of German sample, so as a dividend, it is not only 50 billion than in the previous period of the more than 100 billion, and here we are talking about hundreds of billions of items in the last few years, if all of this is paid up, there can be a compensation fund or part of it, and this compensation fund could now be helped beautifully and efficiently, in a smooth manner, by those who have otherwise come out of their property, or largely out of their own fault, for example because successive governments in Hungary have allowed the practices of the banking system to expand. Here, 2001 was the release of the spirit from the bottle with unilateral treaty modifications, and the historical sin of the Balliberians was that they allowed the currency loan stock to increase to a level that caused a huge disaster, and since 2010, the situation has not been resolved or the provision of Aspirin to the dying person has obviously not been the case, Mr. Secretary of State. But the fact is that the fact that there have been a lot of evictions, thousands or tens of thousands, is also a fact that there are a lot of people who have been evicted among the homeless, or family members, so someone who has been watching this process from a close range, or who has been affected, is a fact that the proposal that we are discussing now has an impact on the affected credit victims. I therefore have every right to demand a solution for them, because it has often been evicted because, for some reason, the loan received at HUF 155-160 was forinted by this government at the market rate around 256 forints, while neither the Curia nor the Constitutional Court has appointed such frameworks for the government, contrary to its own statement, and the fact is that the credit-damaged people were not destroyed because they had paid this otherwise undue burden, but, let's say, because of the repayment they had failed to pay the bills, a third kind of debt came in, a very large loan had to be repaid, and additional penalty rates came on them, two types of executives had to pay them simultaneously, bans from the pension, let me not list it. It developed a flow chart that put these families in an unsustainable position. If you're looking for an answer as to why the mass of the homeless is heterogeneous, then at least the calvary of those injured in foreign currency loans will give you a partial answer, but at the same time you could open your eyes to the fact that the obligation to solve is bouncing around your side. We have indicated certain methods of doing so, and I am very confident that at least with regard to credit-damaged people, the intention to accept improvements is shown. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-03-132	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. There will be repeated speeches. Congressman Lajos Korózs, Hungarian Socialist Party!
u2018-07-03-133	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I hope Congresswoman Mónika Dunai will not question my masculinity [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] 'Cause I've got beautiful boys in Dalias, but seriously, there's a few things to talk about here. I didn't think when I became a politician that someday I'd end up on a platform with the better guys, but in this case, my dear friends, the thing is... [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I guess they didn't start their political careers with me at some point, but, my dear friends, the thing is, how do I put it here? The Secretary of State is very uncomfortable, and we all see it. [[Károly Kontra: That is not true! That's not true.]] It shouldn't be a State Secretary for Police Affairs sitting here, because each speaker almost exclusively affected social problems, housing problems, health problems. [[14.40]] So here, actually, let's say a Czibere Charles should sit or Miklós Vecsei should sit or Lajos Győri should sit who understands what we are talking about. So I'm just saying this, and I don't want to spend a lot of time here, and I'm going to ask Mr. President, right?
u2018-07-03-134	15 minutes.
u2018-07-03-135	15 minutes. I can see that we are speaking side by side, because everyone here in the police area is very clear about their desire to comply with the seventh fundamental law amendment, while opposition proposals have been made to resolve the problems that are coming up, and I see that there is no reception for this on the other side. I don't dispute the fact that the government has been trying to solve this problem for years, but all of his attempts have been practically stalled. I'm just going to mention to you the housing program in Occasia. My dear friends, it's a phalanster town, it's a horror. We used to say that there was no opposition representative who didn't stress that such a thing couldn't be done! Please, if you don't know anything else, at least ask a social worker who would have said that putting people with the same problems into the wilderness wouldn't solve their problem. The whole program in Oakland was clogged, and we knew it was gonna fall for it. There is the institution of the self-destructive, brought here by the representatives of KDNP; we also said that in the form in which this bill was presented to Parliament, there will be no solution. It is clear that there are only a few dozen families who have been able to use it, because under conditions that neither clients nor financial institutions will enter into a new contract, which was accepted in Parliament. The National Asset Manager is here. For a long time, I called it a phantom organization, because there was no way to know if it existed or not. After problematic borrowings or reimbursement difficulties, the state and its tenants remain, the total quota is 36,000, as far as I know, and this 36 thousand, a piece quota has been filled, there are no more tools, no more resources, there is virtually no way the National Asset Manager can involve anyone in this program anymore. Fellow Members! He says, Mr. Secretary, that if I know so well, then why didn't I do it? Well, I did, and there weren't so many homeless people on the roads, underpasses, and public parks. They've been living near the White House for years! My dear fellow Member, I will tell you: you can live 5-6 years on the street. I could say cynically that this is your homeless man who lives on the street. You can't live like this for five to six years, these people die after five to six years. The people we see are the 3.5-4,000 people who live in public areas and see their way of life, 99 percent of them are in public space during your government! They may have been homeless before, but they only lived somewhere else or under other circumstances, such as sheltered sheds or in laundry rooms. But I can't, and now it's the sociologist talking about me, and it's not the politician living in these conditions for five or six years. We would have worked together, Mr. Secretary, to resolve the situation. We would have worked together, because, as I listened to the opposition representatives here, that if the proposal had been put here, of course, not the seventh amendment to the Fundamental Law, but it would have been brought here, so I wrote to myself that if the right to housing had been classified as a fundamental human right by the government, I think everyone would have supported it. Here is the European Social Charter, the modified Social Charter 31. Article 4a of the Treaty deals with precisely this problem and proposes to the Member States to make the right to housing a fundamental human right. But they didn't bring this here. They're trying to change a law enforcement bill. If the proposal had been made to have more social housing in Hungary, why not? It is not because the government alone does not give enough money for it, because it does not otherwise give, but the problem is that a large part of the municipal authorities are suffering from a lack of resources and cannot solve social problems locally and can obtain fresh money by selling their real estate or a significant part of it, and social housing is a major part of their property. So in this form, we would have supported the fact that if there had been a package here that would have increased the number of social housing and provided budgetary resources for this. Please, it was you who terminated housing support and debt management services in 2012. But a lot of people don't lose the tabernacle over their heads for a few thousand forints. These may not be large amounts, but while there was housing support, there was a debt management service or in the capital, there was a substantial number of social means to prevent homelessness. What everyone knows and does not need to be an economist is that preventing homelessness always costs less money than dealing with the problem afterwards, because then there is a huge amount of resources to be provided. If the proposal had been put here, Mr Secretary of State, that there should be an affordable rent and rent allowance in sociology called the provision of an external seat, I think that everyone would have supported this proposal. But they didn't bring this motion here, they wanted to tighten up the current rules and stamp these people. If there were no such prices in the housing rental market as they are, and everyone can see clearly that real estate prices are going up radically in the last 3-4 years, these prices have increased by at least 30-40 percent, and the colleagues who are familiar with housing sociology know that in a few months, rent prices will follow the increase in property prices, even if not to such an extent, then you can see precisely that there is no more private rent in Budapest in less than 100 thousand forints. If they had proposed that families with children could not be evicted, they could not be put on the street even if they could not pay their repayments, we would have supported this. There was such a motion, Mrs Szabó Timea, during the last month of the spring session before the elections, and the Parliament did not allow it to be put on the agenda, so that families with children could not be evicted or put on the streets. Not to mention the need to provide some kind of protection for housing. For example, the right to an address. Secretary of State, many of those people in Hungary today do not have access to different social benefits and social benefits because they do not have a address card. That is why I said that it should not be the police secretary of state sitting here, but one of the secretary of state in the social field, provided, of course, that someone who knows how to do it takes the signals that opposition representatives give. Just for the record, and I don't bring any more of these sociological definitions here, so that our friends of language sociologists say that if someone doesn't have the conceptual apparatus with which they can understand a problem, they can decode it in Hungarian, they don't understand it. So what we are talking about here is that if these proposals had come and a secretary of state on social affairs was sitting here, we could have a substantive debate on this issue. But I repeat myself: there is nothing here but to discuss these matters side by side. Finally, I must also say that if proposals were made for housing subsidies instead of persecution, then everyone would certainly support these proposals, because we also see that there is money. Not only for stadiums, because I no longer want to spring on this, but also that there is money to play public procurement, there is money to move the Prime Minister to the Castle, there is money to support churches in Transylvania by billions, there is money to build a stadium in Slovakia, there is money to support housing and business development in Vojvodina, there is also money to increase the norm of social catering by at least 25 percent, and this is not a horriable amount, Mr Secretary of State, can be made from HUF 1-2 billion. [[14.50]] Some of the Fidesz congressmen have a billion or two forints in their strip pocket, as I see it these days. One or two billion forints could be used to finance the operation of the folk kitchens. Two to three billion forints, if they were pushed into the daytime warmers or the increase in the normative of temporary accommodations, that would mean absolutely nothing to a budget such as the one submitted for 2019. If the framework for the temporary care of families had been raised soon, Mr Secretary of State, HUF 500 million, with a half a billion forint, raising it would be a substantial help for those using temporary accommodation. And the social work on the street. Well, the reason there's no meaningful progress in the underpasses, in the public areas is because they've made street social work impossible. A few hundred million, if they were pushed into it, there would be a substantial change in this area as well. And I'm sorry, to conclude, it's precisely where Budapest would need the most out of a billion forints to create public toilets, to build and operate public toilets. If a few billion forints were added, the situation would not be so unblessed in the underpasses, in the public squares, in the parks or at the base of the monuments. And it's not just for the homeless, it's for the elderly, who have all kinds of health problems, for the mothers, it's gonna help a lot of people. It should be translated into this, and, Mr Secretary, which I have just listed at the very end, I swear to you, this is just over 5 billion forints, almost nothing in a budget like this. And everyone here would vote for it, and everyone would talk about how to solve it. No one's comfortable with what's going on. We will support everything that will help solve the problem, but this proposal will not help solve the problem. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-07-03-136	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. The next repeated speaker was Mr Csárdi Antal, LMP.
u2018-07-03-137	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congresswoman of the Danube! Someone's actions make you religious. Believe me, one will not be a Christian because of his great mouth, but because he behaves, lives, talks as he follows from Jesus'teaching. So I think that I do not want this debate, and I do not think that I should open it with you; just like this bill, your contribution was very far from Christian teaching. Mr. Secretary. Yes, we are interested in solving the current situation, but as my fellow Members have said, the proposals are coming the other way. No substantive proposal has been made towards a real solution. You're saying the rental program isn't good because they can't afford it. Well, I'm telling you, and believe me, a social housing facility would be very welcome to be maintained by a large number of homeless people, but it simply prevents work from being homeless. Because believe me, the supply system where he goes, assuming he uses it, he can't prepare for the next day's work. He said that there is a programme to help these hard-working people reintegrate into society. Well, I know, for example, the Soul Program; the Soul Program, which has helped eight people back into society in Budapest in the last eight years, into a working, active and successful society. And I think if they were investing money in programs like this, maybe we shouldn't be talking about it right now. But that's not what you do. We know very well that in my previous speech, I have also said that the credit crisis, which still has all the consequences of a significant part of society, risks tens of thousands of families in the coming years, so their fellow citizens will be on the streets for tens of thousands. So what do we say? We tell them, "Well, why are you on the street?" Here it is, violation, violation law. Such persons cannot be regulated in the Violent Law. The Violation Act, if I am very forgiving, can be found if we have tried all social and resource-intensive methods to solve this task. But that's not true. The rental program, the prevention. It's like health care. If I prevent the disease, it's much cheaper than when I have to cure it. But you are not open to these, and believe me, I am not accusing you personally, but we have made a million attempts. [[Károly Kontrat: Since when are you a Member?]] Last year, again, we will present the budget amendments that would otherwise be in the direction of a solution on this issue. But you don't listen to that. He says that the current amendment to the Violation Act gives a clear itinerary to the person who is acting and who is entitled to proceedings to decide that the stay is in line with the regulations. Well, I quietly note that the quote you read to me, Secretary of State, is a contradiction in itself. I mean, let's just say the policeman, the policeman who finds me eating a sandwich or falling asleep at the bus stop, he sees this story exactly, and he can't prove that I'm doing it life-style or not, because there's no way to prove it. There's a point-like perception of a continuous thing. But I'm telling you, that's the legal part, because the bigger problem is that in addition to the fact that you said that the aim is to use the forms of supply, I told you why you're not using it, you don't believe me, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Károly Kontra: I reacted to it, no, I reacted to it!]] I'll tell you one more time: it's dirty, it's infected by worms and animals, it's got health problems, one thing. On the other hand, we know very well that we cannot guarantee either asset security or personal security in this situation. Why wasn't it moved forward or changed? Because it's easier to say that homelessness is a violation. That's our biggest problem. My fellow Members have said in a row that they would be partners with opposition representatives if they wanted to bring about a real solution. But you want to punish me, or you think you can do that by force. But when we leave Parliament, it's a different world. It's a place where you can play politics because there's more of you out there, you can't play politics because the law of life can't be raped. I would very kindly ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to withdraw this amendment and, instead, to put forward a bill that can provide a real solution to these problems, which will allow the construction and maintenance of apartments for hire, which will allow a significant increase in the quality of the supply system. Make such a proposal, and then believe me, the Hungarian Parliament will vote in serious unity. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2018-07-03-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The next speaker spoke again from the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I do not want to get involved in the beliefs of my fellow Members, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are such harmful consequences when they form political products and propaganda weapons from Christendom. I suggest that both sides stop doing that; I think we are closer to the way legislation should work in a modern, enlightened state. [[15.00]] I hope that she is already convinced that if she had followed the debate, she could have been convinced earlier. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] What happened? [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-07-03-140	Fellow Members, you didn't say anything like that, Mr Arato. [[Gergely Harvestó: I'm trying to say funny, but I didn't make it this time.]] which would have given my fellow Members a reason to return or acknowledge your words with such clarity, so I would ask you to put this aside now.
u2018-07-03-141	I always like it, but I prefer it when I deserve it. So what I wanted to say is that, as a congresswoman, you must be convinced that opposition parties do not want to keep homeless people on the streets, they do not agree that these people are forced to live on the streets. They just wish they had a choice if they had instruments, and for example, Mr Korózs spoke very in detail and precisely about them, which would allow them not to live on the streets, if they had health and social measures, if they had mental health assistance, rehabilitation, support for employability, and I could still list them for a long time, and not some people, like the programs that Mr. State Secretary spoke about, but indeed in a way that is accessible to everyone that offers these people a chance. Faced with my better colleagues, I don't trust you to write that down. Don't write it on paper. You steer, do it, do it, do something, do something! Ladies and gentlemen, When all this is really resolved and there's a bunch of bored, adventurous millionaires sleeping on the street, then let's get back to the need for police measures, but not until then. Mr Kontrat, State Secretary, does what he always does when they run out of arguments and they don't dare to talk about their own governance, he's back before 2010. Secretary of State, I understand now that you would have been extremely good at governing before 2010. The only thing is that now, in 2018, we should be dealing with the current problems of the country. It's not very interesting what you would have done differently before 2010. Let me also say that you have been working in this area for a long time, you know very well that the situation of the policeman is quite different when dealing with vulnerable homeless people, because this is what the law forces them to do, and it is quite different when they are doing their legitimate duty, perhaps not flawlessly, but they are faced with a partly violent and armed crowd than in 2006. But you know that, because you organized these riots in part, so that's hardly news. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Haha!]] Finally, I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that you are joking when you say that this is not an act of electoral political propaganda. In six days, the amendment of the Fundamental Law was passed, and a further week later, this amendment of the Violent Law was tabled. Should we now believe that in a week you have fulfilled all the obligations of the legislative law, conducted social consultation, government consultation, carried out an impact assessment, and then submitted this bill? I hope this is a joke, because seriously, it would be unthinkable, I think. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Laszlo Hajdu applauds.]]
u2018-07-03-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's now possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2018-07-03-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, When I pointed out in my speech that there were not enough specialists from addictologists, you said that programs had been introduced that could be used by these addictologists. I'm asking you where these professionals are. And I'm not talking about Budapest, I'm talking about different parts of the country. There are no such professionals available. Often, they have to be transported from ten or hundreds of miles away. What should be achieved is that in every part of the country... because who lives in the most eastern or western part of the country, there is also the right to use these professionals, and you must provide the resources to do so. So I think that these people should be better valued, and then perhaps more people would choose this career, and then it would be much easier for the homeless to reintegrate into Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2018-07-03-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Károly Kontra: Yes.]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, György Hubay, who expressed his support for this proposal, representing the Fidesz faction, and my fellow Member, József Móring, who gave his support to the KDNP, so I would like to thank you here for their contributions and support in closing the general debate, and I would also like to ask you to support the proposal in the vote. I asked for the floor in the middle of the debate so that we could have the opportunity to really say and argue about the views that are needed to resolve this issue. I am sorry that good intentions are being called into question by my fellow opposition Members. I would like to point out that we are not helping the dignity of homeless people by letting them live on the streets, but by providing them with the right conditions and an accessible care system. And it is necessary to ban those who deliberately do not use the supply system so that they can proceed. The government can help these people by providing them with an accessible supply system. This system has been provided by the government, and it will continue to do so in the future. In the context of next year's budget, funding for services continues to be ensured in the sources of the social area. Allow me yet to respond to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's second or third, I don't know what, perhaps his last speech on foreign exchange creditors, when he told me what they had done for this. I think that if we look back to the period after 2010, we can say that one of the most important tasks of us, the party group and the government was to replace the Hungarian people from the currency loan trap. In this, we have done a lot of things from the exchange rate barrier to the exchange rate barrier, and I think that we have achieved very important results in this area, and we have been able to help a lot of people to resolve this issue. Back to the present bill, since now T/708. We are talking about the 2012 Bill, which is the 2012 II Bill. I would like to thank the Members involved in this debate for their comments, including those who may have spoken to it with a temper. I hope that this debate has also contributed to the solution. The proposals tabled, the amendments, if any, I can say that we are considering them in substance, since we have undertaken to solve a very serious problem in order to adapt the provisions of the Violent Law on Amendment 7 of the Fundamental Law, or to help solve the problem of people not living in the public domain in the future after the entry into force of the Law. I call for the support of all my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws concerning the maintenance rights of the National University of Public Service, pending its closure. The submission submitted by our fellow Members Gergely Gulyás and Mónika Dunai T/710. On the House's IT network, it is available to all of them. I now give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, rapporteur on the agenda. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2018-07-03-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of Fidesz is to ensure that the Hungarian administration is a clean and efficient institutional system that meets the challenges of the age and facilitates the lives and affairs of the Hungarian people. Our aim is to create and further develop the sound foundations of the Hungarian public service, good governance, in recent years and in the future. [[15.10]] Higher education courses based on advanced scientific knowledge are essential for achieving these objectives. The security of Hungary, the increasing security risks of the world, the crises of the world confront the Hungarian state with extraordinary tasks. An innovative approach is also needed in the conduct of our public affairs. The National University of Public Service also serves these purposes: to train and train professionals who can help citizens and serve citizens quickly, efficiently and professionally in many areas of the public service. To achieve this goal, to create a modern administration, to further develop quality education, the National University of Public Service must ensure a faster and more efficient operation. My fellow Member, Minister Gergely Gulyás, is proposing this in his spirit. Ladies and gentlemen, Currently, the management of the National University of Public Service is the responsibility of four ministers, the Minister of Public Administration and Development, the maintenance body with the participation of the Minister for Justice, Defence and Police, which takes a unanimous vote in favour of the four members. This corporate governance makes its maintenance work slower and more cumbersome, and therefore, in order to create modern public administration and quality education, it is considered appropriate that clear responsibility and governance should be assigned to the Prime Minister's Office. At the same time, we propose to my fellow Member the establishment of an advisory body, which will be chaired by the Prime Minister's Office and the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Police, as has been the case so far, supplemented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. The body shall have the right to propose and to comment on the maintenance powers. Following the current legislation, we continue to see it justified to provide the possibility of providing budgetary support to the University in the budget chapter of its portfolio, based on an agreement with the National University of Public Service, for justice, defence, foreign affairs and law enforcement. Ladies and gentlemen, It is proposed that, if adopted, the law will enter into force on 15 August of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to help the National University of Public Service and to help provide modern education based on an even more efficient model of operation, which aims to ensure the protection of Hungary, to ensure the protection of Hungarian people and to establish a citizen-friendly public service, and which is even more capable of providing the XXI. To adapt to the needs of the century. Ladies and gentlemen, If you agree with these objectives, please support the submitted bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Potápi wishes to speak. I give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The National University of Public Service is a model of effective cooperation between the university of cooperation, social needs, national strategic government goals and university autonomy. Cooperation is a value, if working together for the university, thereby creating added value for the benefit of the public service. University freedom is not a self-serving, it is a responsibility, which is the direction of promoting common social and economic strategic goals in today's Europe. Public objectives and public interest are embodied in NKE's maintenance and public service customers, which are represented by the public institutions that pass maintenance rights, public service vocations, students, teachers and the community of researchers. The social and economic crises of our time, the increasing security risks, the uncertainties of our future confront the state and the government with extraordinary tasks worldwide. Public service in the public interest, good and stable governance, must be based on modern scientific knowledge and higher education. The National University of Public Service shall be responsible for the implementation of Article XXI of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A state that can meet the challenges of the century, good and effective governance, the construction of a committed public service with the tools of education and science. The accelerated and complex changes in our world can only be understood with an open and comprehensive view. Just as the human body can only cope with problems as an organic unit, so the public service is only effective as a single resource. The role of the state must be seen complexly, as a whole of our world. The philosophy of the Universitas once had a mindset for unity, but now our knowledge is fragmented, but changes that reorganize the systems of science require the reunition of our knowledge and synthesis. We also need innovative and innovative ideas in public affairs. The National University of Public Service is one of the innovative scenes of the epochal transformation of science and public service. This bill is based on following this spirit. In order to make the operation of the university more efficient and efficient than before, we believe that it is necessary to modify the maintenance structure at certain points. The 2011 Act on the National University of Public Service and on Administrative, Police and Military Higher Education identified in 2011 the Minister for Administrative Development, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Police, who could exercise their maintenance rights through a common, unanimous decision-making mechanism. After the parliamentary elections in 2014, after the reorganization of the professional tasks, the representative of the Ministry of Justice became a member of the maintenance body, thus expanding the body to four members, with the unanimous decision-making mechanism unchanged. This maintenance structure worked well during the foundation period and in the first years, and fulfilled the expectations attached to it. At that point, professional and maintenance management had to be closely linked, and this model ensured that integration could be successful. In 2012, France Télécom's number of seats was 33, 21, 18 in 2014, 18 in 2015, 16 in 2016, 14 in 2017, and 6 in this year, so the decreasing number of seats indicates that this type of driving model is no longer needed. However, this model has also been exceeded for other reasons. One reason is that integration has been successful. The institution has received a number of new government tasks, such as further training by its officials or EU-funded projects for the development of the public service, in which each faculty and institute could participate. From the Ménesi road site and the Farkasföld road site, two faculties moved to the Ludovika Campus, the move of the Faculty of Military Sciences and Military Officers is under design. The institution is increasingly united in this regard. [[15.20]] This allows for interrogations, transfers. The student events are also common today. There was also a new faculty within the institution, the Faculty of International and European Studies, which, in turn, creates asymmetry by operating without a maintenance representative, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade was not a maintainer, but only took part in FT's meetings with the right of consultation. The Faculty of Water Sciences was selected from the Bajai Eötvös József College as part of the NKE. The faculty found a home at the university with the professional support of BM. In maintenance management and in the body itself, many exchanges have resulted in loss of competence and distortion of liability. In the last six and a half years, eight Ministers of Maintenance and 12 FT members have managed the university as a whole. In addition, there were several aspects that made complex governance in the form of a body unnecessary, more specifically the arguments put forward in favour of the separation of professional and maintenance management. Part of the Prime Minister's Office's budget should be managed by the institution, and this change would ensure that the aspects of the portfolio, the urban development aspects in Budapest, and the strengthening of the professional recruitment of tens of thousands of government agencies, for example, can be better reflected in the management of the NKE. This would not mean that so far the maintenance staff would lose their relationship with the institution. The proposal would continue to ensure that wallets provide resources for their own training purposes in their respective chapters. The bill also provides for the establishment of an advisory body, which would operate under the leadership of the Prime Minister's Office and with the participation of the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Minister for Police. This body would allow interested wallets to comment on and receive information and suggestions on all relevant professional content. The proposal would also eliminate the maintenance asymmetry by, as I mentioned, making the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade an equal member of the Advisory Board, which, by otherwise justified entry into France Télécom, would have completely crippled the university by the decision-making of the five-member board. This model will, of course, also make possible further enlargements manageable. The proposal proposes to maintain the office of the former Maintenance Board, on the one hand, for reasons of continuity and, on the other hand, for the competent operation of the Advisory Board. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me quote a brief detail from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech at the Ludovika Campus ceremony this spring. This university brings new generations of Hungarians to the service of the country every year. Like he used to say, he says today, we are who we are, and we will be who we are. As he once said, he sends a message today that the whole world may collapse, but the moral command of his service to the country remains constant in the heart of the Ludovia and the Ludovians. Ludovika has always taught its students to keep Hungary an independent, free and Hungarian country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With our proposals for this amendment, we want to help the National University of Public Service to achieve its objectives by means of a more efficient model of operation than before. I trust that you will agree with this proposal and we will be able to count on your votes in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we begin the speech of the lead speaker, we must now take a decision on the matter of chairmen. Congressman István Hiller, Vice-President of Parliament, indicated his wish to speak during the general debate. The resolution house rule is 17. § 5 states that, in the event of their opposition, the representatives of the Vice-Presidents may not carry out the tasks relating to the management of the sitting until the end of the vote, unless the Parliament agrees. Therefore, in order for Vice-President István Hiller to hold a meeting on this subject at a later stage, Parliament must contribute. I therefore respectfully ask, the Parliament agrees that Vice-President István Hiller should be able to chair the meeting during the further negotiations on this proposal. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Paragraph 1 states that, in the event of their opposition, the representatives of the Vice-Presidents may not carry out tasks relating to the management of the sitting until the end of the vote in the course of further discussion of the same individual motion on the series of questions, unless Parliament agrees. Therefore, in order for Vice-President István Hiller to hold a meeting on this subject at a later stage, Parliament must contribute. I therefore respectfully ask, the Parliament agrees that Vice-President István Hiller should be able to chair the meeting during the further negotiations on this proposal. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. (Vote. ) Thank you very much, this is a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Thank you very much. We now return to the speech of the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Pósán. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The National University of Public Service has been responsible for the 21st edition since its establishment in 2011. A state that can meet the challenges of the century, good and effective governance, the construction of committed vocational public service with the tools of education and science. The 2011 Act on the National University of Public Service and on Administrative, Police and Military Higher Education identified the Minister for Public Administration Development, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Police, who exercise their maintenance rights by means of a maintenance body based on a common, unanimous decision-making mechanism. As a result of the reorganization of the professional tasks in 2014, the Ministry of Justice also became a member of the Maintenance Board. In addition to the change in the unanimous decision-making mechanism, the maintenance body has thus become four members. In the first years, when professional and maintenance management was necessarily still closely linked, cooperation between previously separate institutions was formed and coordinated, this model provided an appropriate framework for successful integration into a single, large public service university. The progress and deepening of this integration is well demonstrated by the change in the frequency of the meetings of the Maintenance Board, which Mr State Secretary spoke about. The shrinking seat number of the maintenance body shows that this type of driving model seems to have gone beyond it, if you will. This shows that the integration of the former higher education institutions that made up the National University of Public Service has been successful, and that this unification process has not ended with the relocations to Ludovika Campus, projects for the development of the public service, further training of officials, hearings, transfers, and joint events, but is becoming more and more intense. In addition to what has been said so far, the need to apply the 2011 legislation is also justified by the fact that there are new faculties in the National University of Public Service that were not in place at the time of the 2011 provision. Such is the International and European Studies Faculty, which, as a result of previous legislation, operated without the representation of its maintenance staff, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade did not maintain it, but only took part in the meetings of the Maintenance Board with the right of consultation. József Bajai Eötvös College has become part of the National University of Public Service in the field of water management. The corporate governance, which does not cover all the departments of the University of Public Service, makes the operation of the institution slower and more cumbersome. This situation, as well as deeper integration and a more unified university, justifies the need for clear maintenance responsibilities and management in one hand. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister's Office is the headmaster of the budget of the National University of Public Service, it is obvious that the rights of maintenance and liability should also appear here. At the same time, the bill we are discussing will continue to ensure that so far maintain their relations with the institution and allow the wallets in question to provide resources for their own training purposes in their own chapter. [[15.30]] According to the bill, under the leadership of the Prime Minister's Office, with ministers in charge of justice, defence, police and foreign affairs, an advisory body would be set up to allow interested wallets to comment on all relevant professional content and make suggestions. This legislative change removes the hiatus that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade had no place in the Maintenance Board. It is now being included in the Advisory Board, and this model, as has already been said, also allows for possible further enlargements, will also make organisational changes adapted to new challenges manageable. Dear House, The current bill aims to make the operation of the National University of Public Service more effective and of higher quality by introducing a more efficient model of operation than before. I think that this proposal, which is basically, so we think, is an amendment of a technical nature, because it is about the clear naming of the maintenance, and it leads this kind of change through the various paragraphs, and the previous use of the word is replaced by a new one, which is a form of change which, in principle, could not affect the operation so far, but rather improve it. I think this technical change will satisfy all needs. If I perceive and think correctly, then it is likely that this change alone will not cause serious political upheavals. If so, it will not be the reason for this change, let us add, but the fact that in the eyes of the opposition it is the existence of the National University of Public Service in itself that is a splinter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Brenner Koloman. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Good and effective governance could indeed be a very important goal if this were indeed the goal of the governing party. It's so modern, the 21st. It would indeed be very necessary in Hungary to meet the challenges mentioned by the Secretary of State. The problem is that this proposal, by the way, wants to treat an existing system in a more technical way, which your government also invented, and we have already said that it will not work in this form. But again, in a larger context, it is just a direction, and this is the fact that the one-party Fidesz wants to subdue every sector, which is now even a little self-contained. The fact that one person now has the chancellor's decision on every issue that a normal university... and now allow me to be a little personal, Mr. Secretary of State, as former university leader, so in every normal university, it must be the Senate's job or the responsibility of academic elected leaders. Now, with this amendment, virtually everything falls into the hands of the Minister, which is unacceptable to Jobbik, which is really fighting as a civilian force and as a national party for better funding and support for education and higher education. I must say that indeed, the establishment of the National University of Public Service was also a very interesting case study. Let me remind you of a few things because I think we're at the end of a process. It may be that this amendment is only technical, that instead of four ministers of maintenance, there is a minister of maintenance, why this would be better, of course, no one will tell us, but the most important problem in our opinion is why the government has a privileged private university. In a university world in Hungary where there is a general underfunding, the number of students of the National University of Public Service is typical of small and medium-sized universities, yet four times as much development and budgetary resources are allocated to a student at this university as the Hungarian average. In addition, let's say the university received a college of 600 seats at the time when the total number of students in the university was 1800. Well, in terms of proportion, any Hungarian university would very much thank you for this ratio, while otherwise Hungarian universities are really struggling with lack of space and underfunding in the area of colleges. I'll just keep it quiet that the condition of the dorms leaves a lot to be desired. It is estimated that almost 80 percent of colleges currently do not comply with the current legal requirements, so not with some fantastic luxury demands, but also with the Hungarian legal requirements currently in force. This university has only received HUF 50 billion for infrastructure development, EU and budgetary funding since its establishment. The fact that Hungarian universities, who are seriously listed in international rankings, can only dream of developing resources of this magnitude, I do not need to emphasise it here. I am not talking about the fact that if we put the whole issue in even more context, it is no coincidence that not only the HUF 28 billion of the MTA will be put into the budget of the new Ministry of Innovation, but also the HUF 29 billion of universities for research and development, and the HUF 13 billion of the Fund for basic research will be even more concentrated; because universities or scientists will certainly not be able to tell what is worth researching. Everything in this larger context is considered to be in our view. The rector of this university, Professor Patyi, was also the chairman of the Election Committee and the performance he performed during the elections, I do not want to describe it here. In the beginning, I would like to point out that a professor is also a rector and, by the way, the chairman of the National Election Committee, this would be unthinkable in a democracy that is normally functioning. The only thing on the cake is that Professor Patyi, known in the press as a fine champion, will now be the head of the special court system, which will be about Fidesz party soldiers assigned to special courts judging everything for Fidesz if anyone dares to sue the Fidesz state power in any form. Of course, it's getting harder to sue these days. As early as the autumn of 17th, plans were leaked by the government, according to which from 2023 only the person who graduated from the National University of Public Service in the Hungarian administration could hold a leading position in the Hungarian administration. State science: this is an interesting science. This draft has been off the agenda since then, but it is itself that such a news has appeared, in our extremely worrying view. I'll just keep it low-key that college graduates are already receiving some positive discrimination, as you can hear. I would like to explain that we will, of course, also submit amendments to this amendment, simply because I find it outrageous what I quote in Article 5. This amendment of the law would give rise to the tasks of a single minister. I quote point (b), which, I think, can be clear to all people who are not even so connected to the university world. In point (b), he says that the maintainer decides to divide the number of students who can be admitted to the university by specialist. (c) adopt the institutional development plan. (d) determine the number of higher managers and managers at the university. (i) define the system of professional control. How? In what form? This word, professional control, does not exist in the Higher Education Act. It's a rubber section that could fit into anything to determine the system of professional control. I am reading these examples specifically because it is possible to say that this is a technical amendment, but I would like to explain that the Universitas, mentioned by the Secretary of State, meant that university teachers and researchers, as well as the unity of students, and not the unity of the state party and the university. [[15.40]] So I would like to conclude by saying that, in this context and with these worrying trends, we cannot support this proposal on behalf of the Jobbik fraction. The corresponding amendments, which will be about all the issues that the Senate of the University has been deciding since the Middle Ages, will continue to be decided by the Senate of the University. Finally, one last quote to illustrate why these amendments are good, which will refer all these issues to the Senate. With regard to football Worlds, I would like to refer to Immanuel Kantra, born in Königsberg, as the city's name is Kaliningrad, and I would like to conclude with his quote. Kant said that scientists can only be judged by scientists. [[Anita Kőrösi: That's right!]] Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-07-03-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, as we all know since the decision on this matter, is Vice-President István Hiller. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-155	Mr. Vice President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Speaker, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The National University of Public Service is, without a doubt, the favorite university of this government, and it suffers well from its status. It is also clear that during the evaluation, whether it is financing or accreditation, the tools and elements that have not been exercised so far, which were not covered by other Hungarian higher education institutions, have been used. In fact, it can be explained by the fact that, before your vision, I mean, before 2014, which was the year of foundation, the disciplines you call public service were to be classified into a unit, into a university, although that is not what this debate is about, without a doubt, in scandalous circumstances. And they put a body at the forefront that is unique in the history of Hungarian higher education. The,, unique, is an indicator that can be positive and negative. Make sure there's no misunderstanding. It's definitely negative in my terms. So he didn't deviate from what was bad and now he's good, but he's different from everything that has worked and is good, and that's what we've managed to do wrong in Hungarian higher education who can move a little in these circles and talk to university leaders, you know. Mr Secretary of State, in his opinion, he rightly states that the Ludovika Campus provides an opportunity for professors, teachers and students of various faculties, departments, institutions, to be heard and to be taught. For example, I would almost say that it is the original universe, that it would be the goal of medieval universities, but if someone could explain to me what Baja is doing in this, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky út 12-14... This is the title of the Water Management Institute, which, let's face it, is somewhat further away from the Ludovika Faculty than the Gellért Hill, from which they moved the former Administration College, which I am very interested in in the future history of the plot. How can the audition be highlighted so positively that this is supposed to happen between the distance of the Ludovika Campus and Baja? My experience so far does not support the fact that in any way this would give the institution some kind of universal character. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: He has lost the character of Universitas!]] Similarly, the point of the presentation is very interesting, that they happen to see what everyone else saw in 2014, as we did this debate here in the Parliament, that a multi-member body, the leaders of various ministries, have never, but never led an effective higher education institution. That's not what they're supposed to do, and that's not what they're trying to do. When you suggested that this was some kind of initial phase, you didn't have the previous experience that there was a bias between the different wallets for your own territory. Let's not see any wonders in this. That is why humanity, including the political layer, invented the institution called higher education governance, and in your government it is embodied by an unfortunate State Secretary for Higher Education. Can you tell me what is the reason why, if you can see that the maintenance body operating in the initial phase has now lost its topicality, and even hindered better activity and quality education, why is this institution not transferred to the State Secretary of Higher Education or to the EMMI as the institution maintainer of Hungarian state higher education institutions? I'm very curious about that. Because if we act your way, they say this area is important. That's right. Anyone who questions the personal background of the high-quality operation of the public administration, who questions security policy and the importance of independent Hungarian military training is indeed a waste of professional or political debate, because he has different intentions and does not represent the interests of this country. But tell me, isn't medical training important? Because if this university is grouped into the Prime Minister's Office, which happens to be the Prime Minister's office, then it's logical that the University of Medicine will go to the Minister of Health. There are more of you lawyers. I can already see their way to the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Secretary of State will then also be able to respond to interpellations about the internal life of the legal faculties. But here is the new Ministry, responsible for innovation and technology policy. The most prominent institution of innovation in Hungarian higher education is, after all, the Budapest University of Technology, an institution that the President jointly honours with me. Well, then, quickly to Minister Palkovics. Because the logic of this thinking is that it should be there. I'll think about which wallet my mother institution, including the philanthropist arms, should go to. But please understand, higher education management is not simply a Hungarian institution. The Member who spoke before me quite rightly says that the universe is international, because it operates in forms that are able to manage and control science on a number of occasions, but most importantly, to persuade the instructors to pass on their knowledge to the next generation, and the next generation to contribute even more to the scientific research, education and, of course, to the development, promotion and education of our country itself. But if this is torn apart, and the Agricultural Ministry will receive the agricultural research wallets, then there will be no logic in any world about what a Hungarian higher education policy, which has been declared to be uniform since 2011, has been subject to national higher education law. This institution, which we have just discussed, has no place in the world, this institution does not belong here, but because of this amendment to the Prime Minister's Office. It could be a formal debate, otherwise it shows a lot more in the bottom. They think that the traditions of centuries are right and can be broken because they have two-thirds plus one vote. [[15.50]] Science, higher education and education can be influenced by politics for a period of time and even seem to sit on its head; for example, this is what they do in a law when the funding fund of the Academy's research institute is taken away from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. There has not been an example that, in the long term, politics could have triumphed over science. Never! [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Never!]] They can bring medieval, early modern, modern - day examples, and I too would be happy to bring them when politics tried to do so, for a while it also believed that it had won, it was happy, and it was already proven in the medium term that it would be nothing; lack of quality, a complete lack of international recognition. By the way, I am not questioning your good intentions in this regard, that you want good for Hungarian higher education, but the time that has passed since 2011 because of your unfortunate law and since then, has proved that you want it, you want it, you just can't do it. Therefore, I have to say that the logic which, along with the history of the National University of Public Service, the campus and the Bajcsy-Zsilinszky road in Baja, wants to subordinate it to the Prime Minister's Office as a maintainer, goes against the unified management of Hungarian higher education, will not accept Hungarian higher education, even if it becomes a big nod at the meetings that you have led. Believe me, when the government representative goes out, there will be quite different voices for a while, just to assure each other that, by the way, they know exactly how unprofessional and incompetent everything they are driving right now. It's not about who the Chancellor is. It is because of the quality of Hungarian higher education that it is worth it in a unit, as our leaders have said and represented for centuries, to hold on to the Universitas, and to pass on the knowledge of higher education to the next generation. This bill does not push for it, it does not promote it, so we do not support it. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The floor of the Group on Dialogue would be followed, but the Member applying for the speech is not present. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have a two-minute speech. Member István Szávay of the Jobbik Group asked for this opportunity. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-157	Thank you very much. I'd like to remember two things. Dear Secretary of State, Mr Hiller has already hinted at what I wanted to ask, and what I have asked in his debate on the Act establishing the National University of Public Service, around 11-12. But I would like to bring this very strongly once again, Mr Secretary of State. What about the building on Ménesi Road? What about the building? But what's more interesting is what happens to the land, because that land there is worth three times as much as the building on it. By the way, we were very interested in this question six to eight years ago, but we still didn't get an answer. I would be very curious to know whether the state will use it in some way, or sooner or later somehow, it will end up near Garancsi, Lőrinc, or someone else, because, as a serious ulterior suspicion, this question has already employed more of us in the debate of the law, why this property, the building of the former State Administration College, was to be moved. The other, Mr Secretary of State, is that there may be very important points and professional questions here, but the fact that the National University of Public Service is not in the right place at the Prime Minister's Office is an accurate indication that you have been entrusted with the negotiation of this matter. You, Minister of State for National Policy, are very good at this subject, as we know, and we will talk about it in a moment, and we will not talk about it. If that were the case, I would ask you to deny me, Mr Secretary, that you would be kind enough to stand up, and to answer the rather important questions that Hiller and my fellow Member Brenner have said here, in the form of a debate, so that we can debate this important matter here, and not just by coming in, by reading what has been written for you in advance, and then by reading something closing, because this is not a debate. If you can't do this, Mr. Secretary, and you can't answer these questions, it proves one thing how well the National University of Public Service is in the Prime Minister's Office. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Árpád János Potápi has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-03-159	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your comment. If I don't answer, you're in the right place, if I answer, you're in the wrong place; I didn't understand the conclusion exactly. I think that the university has been in the ministries so far, that it will continue to be in the Ministry, that the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office will oversee this. I don't see any problem with that. I think that the aim of the bill, as many of us have tried to point out, is that the eight-year work that we have done so far can then continue and be seen in the work and quality of the university. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will now be speeches by ordinary representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-161	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The problem is that the higher education institution wasn't in the right place at the ministries. There have been models in which the ministries thought that they could manage sectoral higher education very well, so it worked in the great Soviet Union, but I have to say that it didn't really work there either. There is a specific feature of higher education, and my excellent opposition colleagues, who are more experienced in higher education, have spoken about it for a long time, that they prefer the freedom of education and science, they prefer the autonomy of higher education in which the community of teachers and students, the community of the university, decides on the most important issues than central governance. This cannot be done by planning, dear fellow Members, with the intention of a ministry. A standard, high-quality education cannot be created with a central will. You can pour disproportionate amounts of money into an institution, take arms from other institutions by law, well-functioning departments, create a high-quality appearance, but you cannot create a living community with the intention of a ministry. However, I must add that there is no bad situation in which you cannot make it worse. It is also about the fact that so far, at least the ministries have been allowed to make the decision in substance, but from now on, your ministry, with its infinite wisdom, will know not only how to train soldiers instead of the university, but you will know it better than the Ministry of Defence. Obviously well-prepared administrative experts will then make decisions in the ministry on how to train military officers. It doesn't make much sense, of course, other than seeing the feuds being given and bought between individual Fidesz politicians, where they lose a little bit, like the next item on the agenda, then they get something in return for having something to control, but I have to say that it is very foreign to the logic of higher education and education in general. Obviously, it is no longer worth a lot of springing up to the point that it was worth creating this university in this way. Probably not anyway, but if I always criticize you because you're concerned about the past, I wouldn't fall into that mistake. It should now be noted that there is an existing institution, there is a higher education community, a university, and that should be allowed to function as a university. There's a national higher education law, it's the way it is, but you did it, you accepted it. We do not need exceptions, we do not need higher education institutions that are more equal than other higher education institutions. Let this university function according to the law, prove, like any other institution, that it can function properly. And it's kind of small, if I read this draft well, that for the only one wrong vote in the National Election Committee, the rector will be punished, because the maintainer will draw some more powers, and for some things he will know better from here on out than the university itself, as the leading bodies of the university. [[16.00]] So I must tell you that this is a completely unnecessary bill, because the original situation is already unsustainable. If we want to change, we need to make a change that puts this university in normal higher education conditions. In the longer term, regular functioning as a university is in the interest of the institution itself, this is in the interest of the students who come to the university to obtain a degree in normal, competitive conditions, and this is in the interests of the country as well, so that there will be civil servants trained in a manner that is consistent with the tradition of higher education for many centuries, or even soldiers and policemen in this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman, notary.
u2018-07-03-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would not have taken the liberty of speaking on this bill, because I believe that the opposition has actually spoken and expressed its views by experts and asked legitimate questions from both Member Hiller and Mr Brenner Koloman. The Secretary of State's reply encouraged me to comment, because the Secretary of State stood up and refused to answer any questions asked by the authorities, did not reply, he said only that the university is in the right place with you, your ministry, and that it is done. Because. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] As I feel that we are at the same level then in this debate (Development in the ranks of the opposition). ), then I'd say I don't think you have this university in the right place. [[Lajos Korózs: That's why!]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] As I feel that we are at the same level then in this debate (Development in the ranks of the opposition). ), then I would say that I don't think you have this university in the right place (Lajos Korózs: Just because!) It's just... (Development in the ranks of the opposition. ) Thank you very much for listening.
u2018-07-03-164	If you hadn't added this, Congressman, it wouldn't have been offensive. [[Dr. István Apáti: We can say it in German: nur!]] I'm glad the congressman also speaks German. [[Dr. István Apáti: Among other things!]] Nice to meet you. Also. [[Defiance and intervention among the opposition: Is!]] Yes, thank you. Mr László Pósán is next to speak again, and I ask that the seriousness, such as the law, be preserved. [[István Szávay intervenes.]]
u2018-07-03-165	Thank you, Mr. President. I applied for a normal speech, and not for two minutes, because a lot had been said, and it would have been difficult for me to respond to them in two minutes, but allow me to draw attention to some errors or deliberate slippages. Brenner Koloman objects to some things that I say either he doesn't understand things, or he simply deliberately misinterprets them. He doesn't know where to put the term "state science." I would just like to remind you that for decades in Hungary, it has been called "the Faculty of State and Law" at ELTE, Szeged, Pécs, anywhere. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: State and Law! And!]] So if you can't interpret it, ask me why, then why did you call them that way? I would also like to remind you that you object to the fact that you do not understand that Article 5 In Section 5 of the Maintenance Act, what are all the rights attached to the Maintenance Act, is that it is possible for the maintainer to decide on the division of the number of students who can be admitted to the University by professional level. Well, honourable Member, this is the case at all other universities, it is called a point draw; there are trial circles, and it will be revealed there, and it will be determined by the maintainer, the Hungarian state, the budgetary framework, and this will tell you how many students can take biology courses at the university, law and how many can be admitted to medical school, and so on and so on. I don't really get it. The approval of the university's annual budget accounts in other universities is called the Consutory. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. István Szávay: Teach me more, master!]] Please refer to the legislation in force and you will know it. I would also like to note that the National University of Public Service has a field of training which, with any goodwill, we look at as a traditional university training structure to include scientific achievements and other things, cannot, because this is a matter of law enforcement, security, defence or even disaster protection, so it is good that we know that. They can't be treated any other way. The Member objected to the size of the development of colleges at the National University of Public Service. If nothing else, just read Géza Csáth, and you will know that military education, military training or even law enforcement training are part of the accommodation, including a 24-hour schedule and much more, so this, whether you like it or not, has some kind of infrastructure conditions. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] So I'm just gonna put this to your attention. Congressman Gergely Arató says that the central order, the ministerial will, is not practical. I agree with you, Congressman, that's what you practiced when, with a command word, you introduced Bologna-type training, everywhere, unthinkingly, we drink the money in a lot of areas. Congressman Hiller said that the idea of a universe cannot be interpreted in Baja-Budapest relations. Congressman, if that's true, let's assume it's true. , the reason why ELTE has a place in Szombathely or Nyíregyháza [[István Szávay: Exactly! Exactly!]] 'Cause then the same logic fails there, too. So let us be clear that ELTE cannot achieve the ideal of the Universitas, and that if we took the ideal of the Universitas seriously, then we should have started there, when this question was on the table, that the universities of Budapest had a large university unit. There have been a number of objections to uniform higher education governance. I would like to note that, of course, this has not been the case before, nor has it been before, because there have always been units under sectoral ministries; for example, before the National University of Public Service, military training belonged to HM, and law enforcement training belonged to BM. So it's good that we know all this, and from that point of view, we don't make the mistake of moving towards slides. Mr György Szilágyi said that experts asked questions. I'm sure that's true. I would ask one thing as a cautious question: that Brenner Koloman, who, as I understand it, came from the University of West Hungary when he met with police or military training cases, for example. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea and Dr. Brenner Koloman: ELTE!]] Or even ELTE. Excuse me, Congressman Hiller has the same question. I, I confess, have never met him, personally, have not been in a position to take part in this type of training, so I insist on the professional opinion of the experts, and I dare not say that in any way in Parliament those who otherwise come from higher education, but not in the field of the negotiation of the area in question, should be regarded as an authority in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since there are no more ordinary representatives to speak, two-minute speeches will follow. First I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, a notary. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Speaking of colleges now, given that the expansion of the Ludovika Campus and the building of the college, the construction of the new college, of course the companies of István Garancsi and the cashier, and also of Lőrinc, on the other hand, because I did not get an answer to my question earlier, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the fate of the building on the road to Ménes and the lot will be. [[Dr. István Apáti: Training camp!]] Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-168	Thank you very much. István Hiller, Vice President. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2018-07-03-169	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I asked for two minutes because I would like to comment on the two sentences that the Member has just said, not on the main line. The first thing we agree on is I think it's stupid that Szombathely belongs to ELTE. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] For example, if it were up to me, it wouldn't belong there at all, but since it was up to you, it was your turn to connect it, because Szombathely didn't belong to ELTE earlier, then you will have to discuss it with the government minister responsible for higher education, because you have managed to do this nonsense. The second is the introduction of the Bologna Process. I would like to remind you that during your first government, during the ministry of József Pálinkás, we entered the Bologna system with the signature of Professor Náray-Szabó, Professor Náray signed the document of the Bologna Process, who later, as President of the Batthyány Circle of Professors, succeeded in expressing ideas in his article on the Academy that the most famous Hungarian brain researcher had just left the Batthyány Circle of Professors. This is just for clarification, so that the Prime Minister's Office does not have to deal with these details later. Thank you very much. [[16.10]]
u2018-07-03-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The next two-minute speaker is Mr László Pósán. I'll wait for Congressman to put the microphone on. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Only in relation to what has been said: In the case of the integration or attachment of Szombathely and any other such higher education institution, these things have always taken into account the opinion and consent of the institutions concerned. So I'm just saying that higher education institutions considered that this could be part of the Universitas. Mr President, this is what you have questioned, and I have responded that if this is a problem in the Budapest-Baja relationship, then it should also be a problem here. In the case of Bologna, allow me to draw attention to the fact that we turn back the minutes of Parliament at that time. We proposed, then, on Fidesz's part, that we launch it as a test with some institutions in relation to the Bologna process, see what this will entail, what it will result in, and we said that it is reasonable to introduce it now or not in certain areas. To these I said that in many places it turned out that it didn't make sense, and in many places it made sense, honourable Member, I do not dispute that. There are areas where there are grounds for existence, and there were areas where there were no grounds for existence, but at the time of introduction there were no such differentiation options at all, because by command they were introduced in virtually all areas except law and medical training. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[To the applicant István Szávay:]] You don't have a chance, Congressman Savay, as a notary, you know that. Only one of a faction, and it was you. Thank you very much. There's no way. [[István Szávay: I wanted to ask you what will happen to the property on Ménesi út. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] If not, the general debate is closed. But after I've closed it, I'd like to say that you should know this as well as I do, beyond which you could have applied for a proper speech, it would have been possible. Thank you. I'll ask the author if he'd like to take the opportunity to answer. [[Mónika Dunai: Yes.]] Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor, please.
u2018-07-03-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank everyone, even my fellow opposition Members, for their contributions. I see that today's debate was dominated primarily by the broader context of higher education. There have been a lot of things that are not the subject of the present proposal. Neither the reorganisation of universities nor the accession to the Bologna system are the subject of the present proposal to discuss today's bill. The only thing that has come up with the concrete present proposal is, in particular, why, instead of four ministers, a minister would have the responsibility to exercise maintenance powers at the National University of Public Service, as presented here. Therefore, allow me to address this issue in my answer. The fact that a body has so far decided on a large number of issues in the process of transformation in the initial years, which also concerns the competence, knowledge and competence of four ministers, has continued to be justified in the initial period from 2012. As the Secretary of State said, he mentioned that during the initial period of transition, there was a need for close cooperation between his maintenance and professional powers. Allow me to give some figures on how many times the maintenance body met during the initial period, and this also supports what I said that during the initial period of integration, there was a much greater need for close links between professional and maintenance management. 33 such meetings were held in 2012. Once again, the four ministers had to decide unanimously on all maintenance issues. In 2013, the meeting of this maintenance body was needed only 21 times more than 33 times. In 2014, it fell below 20, 18 times, 18 times in 2015, 16 times in 2016, only 14 times last year in 2017, i.e. much less than half the number of these meetings in a few years. So far, six such meetings took place in the first half of 2018. Now the experience of this transition period also shows that it is justified to fine-tune this system a little, because now this changeover period is coming to an end. We can say that this transition period is over, and that the university can train professionals, strengthening its professional competences, and not forgetting further training, because they provide not only university and college training, but also a very valuable system of further training for the university's operation in a very large proportion. What I do not understand from the comments of my opposition colleagues is why they have greater confidence in four Fideszes-KDNP ministers than in a Fideszes-KDNP minister. So you are probably in agreement with the activities of the other three ministers, because you do not want them to belong to the Minister who manages the Prime Minister's Office. [[István Szávay: Absolutely not!]] However, we can also stress that, in addition to the fact that a body's decision-making mechanism concerning maintenance powers, as in everything else, is much more difficult, slower and more difficult than a minister, but the issue of responsibility lies in four parts. Not only can such clearer governance be much more effective, but responsibility is also much easier to understand and be accountable for. So this transformation, the transformation of the maintenance power, and the modification of the power to maintain it, is also a clear definition of responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, Another advantage of the presentation, and perhaps this was less affected in the debate, is that not only these three plus one ministries will now be members of the new advisory body, but this will also be added to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and to the Minister, with the additional added benefit that, as in the past, the three ministries had a budgetary framework from which the Ministry could support the funding of the corresponding training. The reason I don't say four is because it belonged to the Prime Minister's Office in budgetary terms, so in addition to the other three ministries, and now a source comes in, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs happens to have the opportunity to support and finance the training system in its own professional area. So overall, the autonomy of the university will not decrease a bit, its professional autonomy, its governance system will mean a clearer, more accountable and clearer system of tasks and responsibilities in the future, and they will be able to involve more resources, so the university will benefit from this change in financial terms. I would like to mention the maintenance rights for one more thought, which was mentioned by my better fellow Member, and my fellow Member, László Pósán, has already mentioned this in part. Dr. Brenner Koloman said that he listed the section which discusses what the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office will be entitled to, as the Minister of Maintenance, as proposed in the future. That's how it's been. [[16.20]] There are maintenance powers everywhere. This series of maintenance powers, i.e. the items which have been practiced by the Member who has been listed, has been practiced, but not by this one minister, but by a panel of four ministers. There's no change in that. It would be a problem if, ad hocly, the maintenance powers were installed at one institution in this way and at the other by the National Assembly. Once again, I thank you for your contributions from all the factions. If you still have proposals relating to the bill, please do so in the detailed debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2010 CLXXXII on the Bethlen Gábor Fund. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The presentation submitted by our fellow Members from Mr Barna Fideszes and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP T/713. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Nacsa Lőrinc, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, T/713. The 2010 CLXXXII on the Bethlen Gábor Fund. The proposal to amend the law was presented to this House by my fellow Member, Mr Barna Fidesz. The fundamental aim of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, established as the successor of the Parent Land Fund in 2011, is to enforce the responsibility for Hungarians living outside the borders of Hungary, which requires a periodic review of the instruments of this basic objective, and consequently the 2010 CLXXXII on Bethlen Gábor Fund. regular review of the law. One of the objectives of the amendment is that the 2011 CXCV on public finances. As defined in law, the Act establishing a separate State Fund should specify the purposes, sources of revenue, the scope of expenditure to be incurred, the person responsible for the allocated State Fund, the body and, if designated, the managing body and the extent to which the expenditure necessary for the management of the Fund is financed. Within the framework of this bill, the Bethlen Gábor Fund Act will be renewed in a manner that satisfies the conditions laid down in the Public Finance Act and strengthens its consistency and cohesion, as well as certain codification and legal clarifications. It is an important change that, in the context of the government's restructuring, it is justified that, by providing for a certain period of preparation and transitional time, the tasks currently carried out by the Minister for Relations with Churches and Nationality Policy, which the Human Resources Support Manager is currently responsible for coordinating relations with Churches, should be carried out by law on the basis of the bill, in accordance with the transitional provisions contained in it and with the provisions on its duties, and in accordance with the proposal, by the fund manager in the future. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in aid for the social responsibilities and investments of churches, which has so far been managed by EMET. At the same time, the support of nationalities in Hungary has increased more than three times compared to 2010, so it is very responsible to manage a significant number of contracts and grants, which will be provided in the future by the Bethlen Gábor Fund. I used to be a member of the College of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, so I could see the fund's activities closely. I would also like to say a few words about this, because it is clear that the payment of subsidies for national policy purposes and the tendering have never been so effective and transparent. Obviously, this is also the expectation of church and ethnic support in the future. The management of the funds and contracts of Bethlen Gábor Fund was established in April 2011 by Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. You're gonna end up dead. The Bethlen Gábor Fund is a separate state fund which aims to help achieve the goals related to the Hungarian government's national policy strategy. Its main task is to provide support in order to promote individual and community prosperity, material and intellectual growth and to preserve its culture in the homeland of foreign Hungarians. Its task is to operate a transparent tendering system with a view to the use and effective allocation of grants. The fund manager thus contributes with his activities to the strengthening of the nation-consciousness of the world as a whole, to the maintenance of Hungarian-Hungarian relations. The funds so far can be divided into three parts. Normative grants, i.e. grants that, if the applicant fulfils the conditions set out in the call for proposals, he will automatically receive the aid; there are educational, educational and Transcarpathian social programmes. The second is calls for proposals, with applications for cultural, educational sisterhood, youth, community, entrepreneurial or development. The third pillar is individual grants, where there are grants that address the specific circumstances and funding needs of the objective to be supported, mainly support institutions of national importance on the basis of the guidelines of the Hungarian Permanent Conference. There are currently 76 institutions and 12 programmes in this third pillar. These are organisations that have a high degree of organizational power in the communities of Hungarians across the border. They play a prominent role in education, cultural, ecclesiastical, community and social organisation or other fields of national strategy. I think the Bethlen Gábor Fund has been well-filled in recent years. Nothing shows this better than that, while nearly HUF 13.5 billion was treated in 2013, it grew to nearly HUF 76 billion last year. The fund has already carried out important tasks, and its responsibilities will be increased with the current legislative amendment. In addition to national policy, the management of two other priority areas, ecclesiastical and ethnic support, will be the task of the BGA. I would ask the honourable Members to support our proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Congressman Árpád Potápi will now speak as Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-03-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Szilágyi, It is more than eight years since the Hungarian national policy has been put on a new footing. One of our most important objectives in this work was to bring national political resources together and to operate a single support system. The Bethlen Gábor Fund as a separate state fund has been responsible for the past period, and in the next period it will also be responsible for helping the Hungarian government achieve its national policy goals. We have been able to increase the fund's resources, as we have just said, year after year. We also increased the funds every year, compared to those laid down in the Finance Act. I believe that this was not possible in the practice of national policy in the previous decades, and it reached HUF 80 billion in 17 years. This was all available to support and help Hungarian communities abroad, whether we are talking about the Carpathian Basin or we are talking about the Hungarianness of diaspora. This means that, thanks to the funding provided by the Fund, more than five thousand Hungarian institutions from abroad became sustainable and their programmes became sustainable in 12 years, we have restarted the support of the institutions of national importance, 79 of them now, and through national programmes we ensure the continuous operation of a further 176 Hungarian institutions from abroad, which have a prominent role in national policy. Thanks to the Fund's resources, a number of significant improvements have been made in recent years. I would just like to highlight a few. In Transylvania, the Szamosújvár Szórvár Education Centre was built, for example, the church schools and churches in Felvidék have been renewed, the Novi Sad European College opened its doors in Vojvodina, and in Transcarpathia the church lices, which represent the Hungarian secondary school education base, have been renewed. But there is no number of renovated churches, schools, educational and cultural institutions. We can talk about diaspora, where in recent years we have managed to build new Hungarian community houses, Hungarian houses, Hungarian churches, and to inaugurate and consecrate. With increasing resources, we have been able to implement a number of applications over the years. We have supported the operation and programmes of more than 4800 Hungarian organisations from abroad since 2011. In 2015, we launched the sister settlement programme in the Carpathian Basin. So far, we have supported a total of 521 Hungarian settlements organised together with 832 Hungarian partner settlements from abroad. In 2016, we supported the Hungarian youth communities abroad in a separate application programme. We started this, among other things, on the proposal of Congressman Savay, and we thought so ourselves, but we are pleased with the identity of our opinion. In the last three years, we have contributed to the operation and programmes of 376 organisations. [[16.30]] We also fund the educational and educational support of Hungarian students from abroad. Although, at the beginning of the previous cycle, in 2014, we discussed the need to reshape this educational-education support, this failed in the previous cycle. Since 2010, however, we have supported children and their families who have chosen a Hungarian educational institution and are sending their children here with HUF 38 billion. About 240 thousand Hungarian students from abroad receive this support each year. In response to the challenges and attacks of Transcarpathian Hungarians and to the inability of the Hungarian community, in 2015, we launched the Transcarpathian social programme package, which is also financed from the fund. With the initiative, we reached 30,000 people in the order of magnitude and helped to make a living for more than 10,000 families in Transcarpathia. We support teachers in Transcarpathia, art educators, health workers, church educators, pastors, priests, and even those working in the Transcarpathian media. Since 2012, we have been operating the thematic years partly using the resources of the Fund, during which every year we try to strengthen a foreign Hungarian layer and institutional system. This year we joined the year of families announced by the Ministry of Human Resources, so we announced 2018 as the year of Hungarian families abroad. During this year, we support Hungarian families abroad and the environment that supports them, social and ecclesiastical organisations, family or young farmers or farms, entrepreneurs who pursue family-friendly activities. We can say that thanks to the fund and the management of the fund, in recent years we have made the support of foreign Hungarians systemic. CLXXXII of 2010 on the Bethlen Gábor Fund. Following a regular review of the Act, this amendment includes both technical amendments and structural amendments, as the rapporteur, Mr Nacsa, has already mentioned. This amendment responds to the needs arising from the application of the law. The amendment of the law is also required by the fact that, with the exception of the coordination of relations with the churches in the context of the change of government structure and the provisions of the Statute, nationality policy has become the responsibility and competence of the general deputy of the Prime Minister. Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. He'll take care of it. In order to establish the legal basis for the performance of these tasks, it is necessary to record that Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. in addition to the management of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, it is able to carry out the management and operating organ functions of the statutory central management, chapter management appropriations. In this context, the process of transferring and receiving the tasks transferred to Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. is also regulated. CLXXXII of 2010 on the Bethlen Gábor Fund. By amending the law, we believe that we can continue to make a predictable contribution to the growth of the Hungarian nation in line with our strategic visions. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the amendment after the general and detailed debate has been concluded. Thank you very much to the authors. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz group, Mr Barna. [[Dr. István Apáti: Szávay to István!]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-179	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Bethlen Gábor Fund was established by the Parliament at the end of 2010 on the proposal of the Minister for National Policy, more precisely: the majority of the Parliament's Fidesz and KDNP, the MSZP and LMP voted against it and Jobbik did not support it. For example, my fellow Member, Mr Molnár, has voted against the establishment of the Bethlen Gábor Fund; I do not see that he considered it important to be here in this Chamber. I think this clearly describes the opposition's relationship with Hungarians across the border. The creation of the fund was not a step in itself. The Parliament, which was founded in 2010, was the first to adopt a law facilitating the acquisition of dual citizenship for Hungarians across the border, and the Hungarian Permanent Conference was also convened after many years. It was the beginning of a new era. With the establishment of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, a single, independent, separate state financial fund was established for the management of funds intended to support Hungarians across the border. Eight years ago, the Fund was born in the light of four main aspects: unity, transparency, predictability and accountability, not losing sight of the main goal: to facilitate the prosperity of Hungarian communities living abroad in the homeland and their close relationship with the mother country. The operation of the single payment scheme, the central management of resources, has made it possible to eliminate duplication, ensuring efficient use and transparency, while at the same time guaranteeing predictability and security, which is a guarantee of calm functioning for Hungarian organisations across borders. Since the Parliament has discussed next year's budget in the last few days, it is also worth mentioning that it was able to manage its fund from HUF 12.5 billion. Today, this amount is more than double, HUF 28 billion, but it is only part of the amount spent on supporting Hungarians across the border. Only in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade chapter, around HUF 50 billion is available to support cross-border economic development programmes, but if you look at the central budget as a whole, as has already been said, the amount of national political spending exceeds HUF 100 billion. The Bethlen Gábor Fund can spend 5.8 billion forints next year on educational and educational support, which is 25 thousand forints a month for 240 thousand people. 79 national institutions and programmes receive a total grant of HUF 10 billion, of which HUF 3.5 billion is provided by the Sapientia Foundation and 2.5 billion by the II. Ferenc Rákóczi Hungarian College of Transcarpathia receives. Ladies and gentlemen, The Bethlen Gábor Fund Act was passed eight years ago and has since been subject to several minor amendments. The proposal before us is the result of a comprehensive review, which is mainly linked to the restructuring of the governance structure, namely: the payment of church and ethnic support is also carried out by the Bethlen Gábor Fund in the future. In addition, the legislation also includes codification amendments that make the structure of the law more uniform and enhance its coherence. [[16.40]] The Fidesz faction, of course, supports it and I also ask for the support of my fellow opposition Members. This is your chance to make up for what you did eight years ago. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-03-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr István Szávay, notary. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite unworthy of the subject itself and of the debate, as Mr Sigmond has now done at the beginning of his speech, and at the end of it, that Jobbik did not support the establishment of the Bethlen Gábor Fund. As I recall, we abstained, obviously not because... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what he said!]] Obviously not because of what you've been suggesting here, by the way, I'll say it again, I really think it's unfair, because we wouldn't agree with the case itself. Now I didn't have time, I looked here quickly to find out, but obviously we had criticisms of the operation, structure and methods of distribution of the fund back then, and since then, and we have tabled a number of amendments, none of which you have accepted. This is already part of the historical truth, but I am going to go on one or two more issues here, which I am not sure I would have wanted to do, but if Mr Potápi, State Secretary, has taken the opportunity to report on the entire spectrum of government national policy, which has nothing to do with any of the proposals before us, then I also take the liberty of doing so, and I will respond to that. All the more so, because what the bill itself is about and what the reasons for the individual amendments are, in particular, is not mentioned in detail either by the authors or by you, Mr Zsigmond, as a fidesz general speaker and by the Secretary of State. There are a few questions that we would be interested in, however, that I would like to advance, despite what has been said, that we do not have a lot of problems with the proposal, and that we will be able to support it, but I would like to bring a few cases here and ask a few questions. I am only asking this by the way, although I do not really understand why the Government did not take such a proposal of a fundamentally technical nature in its name, I am asking the Secretary of State. It's obvious that you two didn't roll around for days and nights in front of a laptop to bring this proposal together, but you put it in your hands from the Prime Minister's Office. Anyway, we're used to this, and I'm asking you this without any particular tone, but I really don't understand why the government didn't take that in its name, why it had to be tabled as a motion for representation, but let's move on with elegance. Basically, these are obviously technical amendments. One or two issues that have already worked this way, but have not been laid down in the law, this is happening, and there are some changes that, although affecting centralization, are always dangerous in your practice, but in these cases we can even see and agree. Article 1 § 2 deals with the possibility that the management body of the fund may be the beneficiary in the event of any support from the fund. So far, this has only been related to the support of the House of Hungarians. By the way, we can agree with this, this is a reasonable amendment, as is the case with 2nd and 3rd. I'm sorry, too. Article 4 § 2 states that the managing director of the fund is appointed and relieved by the Minister responsible for national policy on a proposal from the committee, or is included in the so-called legalisation of the practice so far, that the employer's rights over the additional or other employees appear to be in order, and that, on the other hand, it is clarified that, in order to carry out the management tasks or part of them, the manager may create, entrust to another legal person a founding right, a participation or a contributing organisation; in addition, they may clarify the conflict of interest rules. So we understand well, then basically the practice so far is named in the law with certain additions. Article 6 § 2 deals with the fact that, in addition to the management of the fund, the fund manager may carry out the tasks of centrally managed appropriations, Chapterly managed appropriations or other separate public fund managers as organ or operating bodies on the basis of legislation. You could have explained that a little bit more exactly what it means or what it means here. I think I understand, but if the three of you have already spoken to this law in their different capacity, then perhaps this could be explained a little bit more clearly as to what specific matters are involved. I myself, as a conservative and a little etatistic person, am fundamentally committed to rational and rationalized centralization if it really is rational and rational and does not serve a kind of power self-target, as we have seen many times over the last eight years in your case or in the case of your legislative practice. In fact, I am the one who has been telling you, criticizing and criticizing the fragmentation of national political support for many years. Árpád Potápi State Secretary also spoke about it here, and the Bethlen Gábor Fund Act also contains the purpose of the Bethlen Gábor Fund to bring together the various grants. This proposal is now taking a small step in this direction, and we can, of course, agree with that, with the explanation that we continue to see these funds and their tasks being carried out too fragmented within the governance structure. All I ask of the Secretary of State is that the fund manager is entitled to acquire, maintain and operate real estate as defined in the Government Decree or in a public decision, but there has not been a word about this either in the presentation or in the State Secretary's comment. This, however, I think, would require some explanation, Mr Secretary of State or fellow Members of Parliament, as to what this is all about. I would also like to be reassured that we do not have to think, by chance, that here with land or buildings purchased with public money, they want to fatten the foreign Fidesz clientship in some way, and that is why it is necessary to display this pass. Please tell me that's not what this is about. Besides, I'm not particularly malicious when I think about it, see the renovation of a tusnad bath camping, it's also worth a mass. In this case, I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the investigation in this regard stands, and about his threefold missed or delayed reporting obligation to this foundation close to Zsolt Németh, which has been juggling HUF 150 million in public money for years, when will finally be final, public and transparent, and when will we be able to find answers to the questions raised earlier in this regard. So much for land and real estate. However, this is always a quagmire in the case of Fidesz, unfortunately there is no other way in the case of foreign subsidies. But let's keep going. Article 8 § applies a uniform list of what and how to publish on the Bethlen Gábor Fund website, exactly here the how is already a little less mentioned. Here is a concrete amendment which I would like to ask the Secretary of State or the authors to consider. If we have already pointed out that the current proposal contains several points which, in fact, only legitimize existing practices, as you have nodded to, fellow members of the Government, then let me ask you to legitimise, according to existing practice, how and how to search for certain data on the Bethlen Gábor Fund website, because this was completely unmanageable in previous years, only the pdf documents of the various Commission decisions were uploaded. If anyone wanted to look into what kind of organization, when, how much money and how he made it, it was quite circumstantial. In the previous years, as long as there was a debate in Parliament on the report on the Bethlen Gábor Fund, you have already banished it to the committee, well, anyway, so, as long as this was a debate, we were able to prepare ourselves by having all the relevant reports printed by my hardworking colleagues, and by making a large Excel table of them themselves, to see how much funding has been received in the last year at all. And after a good three or four years of fussing over this, I finally managed to resolve this issue, or failed to do so, but for some reason there was a political intention to do so, which I welcome. By the way, this search engine now works very nicely on the Bethlen Gábor Fund website, we hope that it will continue to work in the future. [[16.50]] And if it is already possible to legitimise existing practices in this proposal, then I would like to ask the Secretary of State to accept our amendment to talk here about the publication of certain data in a simple and searchable database in the course of the rest. Article 9 Article 3 is added to a half sentence that I do not understand. More specifically, the 9th. § provides for the omission of a sentence of a half of the original law. The Committee may waive interest on repayment of aid other than those provided for in the contract in cases which are of particular relevance, as stated in the original provision. The current amendment would also exclude that this option should apply only to uses other than those covered by the contract. What exactly is this about, Mr. Secretary? I have to admit, we've been wondering a lot about it, but we haven't been able to fully figure out exactly what the intention is here, to whom and why they want to favour it. I'm not suggesting any bad intentions about this, I just don't understand, so I'm asking you to come to this for a moment. Article 10 § is about whether the ecclesiastical and ethnic applications will now be transferred from EMET to the Bethlen Gábor Fund. We have some bad feelings about this, but we're basically not criticizing it, so we can accept that, there is rationality in this. We hope that transparency in this regard will continue to be maintained. Here, I would like to draw your attention to two things, since we are already in transparency and fragmentation of funding for applications. I will continue to take advantage of you and this forum for asking you, Mr Secretary of State, to do everything possible to obtain funds from one place from Hungary for a cross-border purpose. Whether it is the Bethlen Gábor Fund, whether it is the framework of any minister, whether it is the Speaker's framework, be it the framework of the National Cooperation Fund, but it would be very good to end the practice of Hungarian political or educational leaders across a more nutritious border if we think about Transcarpathia, who may be doing very important things, and even doing that, only the money of the Good Lord is not enough for them, and they take advantage of all kinds of Fidesz relationships to make so much of this ministry, and so much of it, and so much of it, and so much of it, and all of it, often in fact, to do the same goals, and say it boldly, on the basis of the same or shockingly similar accounts. This question arises even if church and ethnic support goes to the Bethlen Gábor Fund. I'd be happy, Mr. Secretary, if we could talk about this a little longer, say, at a committee meeting. In any case, I would like to propose that there should be some sort of negotiation or division of tasks between the Bethlen Gábor Fund and the National Cooperation Fund, because in many cases I am not sure that there will be a clear separation of tasks here and that there will be no overlaps that have not been possible until now, as far as these frameworks were not in or from the Bethlen Gábor Fund. My time frame is 15 minutes, Mr. President?
u2018-07-03-182	Yes, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-183	So basically, I can say that if we get a relatively reassuring answer to these few questions, I can ask the Jobbik faction for support of this proposal. But there are some questions that we see vaguely. I would be happy if we could return to these matters, either real estate, commitments and so on, or even to the relationship with the National Cooperation Fund. A number of cases have been mentioned by the Secretary of State on the Bethlen Gábor Fund, to which we would like to respond, but I will do so in a separate speech. And I leave my keynote speakers to the issues that have been particularly closely addressed in the proposal. I look forward to your response and ask for consideration of the adoption of our amending proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-184	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Over the past ten minutes on television, I have succeeded in following the embarrassing speech when the lead speaker of Fidesz gave a keynote speech written by others for another amendment of the law, and he tried to argue for it, which is obviously...
u2018-07-03-186	Congressman, this is not an item on the agenda. I'm asking you to talk about what's on our agenda today.
u2018-07-03-187	It's probably what he did when Fidesz's lead speaker spoke. I would like to begin with respect to the fact that the majority of governments and the Fidesz-KDNP have missed a huge opportunity on this agenda when they have the opportunity to modify, clarify and supplement the inaccuracies and anomalies that opposition representatives, including socialists and other representatives, have indicated in recent years with regard to the Bethlen Gábor Fund. But what we see is that decision-making continues only on the basis of political considerations, less for the sake of Hungarians across borders, but rather according to the Moonyard of Fidesz, who has different applications. An example of this is that the main decision-making forum of the Fund is the composition of the four-member committee and the nine-member college in preparation for decisions, since only an expert resident in Hungary can participate in the pre-decision college, so that, unlike the former concept of support policy, decision preparation cannot be part of the decision-making process by experts from beyond the borders who, for example, participate in the work of MÁÉRT, so they are excluded from this procedure. Obviously, local Fidesz experts know better what to do and how to do. It is very important that the Socialist Government launched a support programme in 2007, which offered to more than ten Hungarian organisations across legitimate borders the possibility of normative, long-term support and predictable funding to institutions across the border. You did this in a completely different way after you came to power in 2010. At the same time, they stressed that this was the way they wanted to continue the normative basis, but this was not the case, but it was on the basis of various political considerations, and this is how these resources were distributed. Meanwhile, behind the sublime goals and the right national policy objectives, there are, unfortunately, sanda solutions, in particular regarding the evaluation of proposals and the composition of various expert bodies. As a whole, it can therefore be said that until the fund, established previously as the successor of the Parent Land Fund in 2010, brought about a substantive change, it was only political weighing and political considerations that were decisively superior, and not the fate of Hungarians beyond the borders, but domestic interests, so that we can see a system that favours opaque, individual and restricted subsidies. This leads to further sharing of Hungarian communities abroad, and obviously organisations close to Fidesz will continue to receive support. Therefore, the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Lóránt Keresztes. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In view of the fact that this is a national policy, I expected a constructive dialogue to follow in the Parliament on this issue, because it is the government and the pro-government representatives who always stress that in the area of national policy, we must strike a tone and act in such a way that we can speak a common language, and that we can define a national minimum, a national minimum, in this area. Well, I regret once again, after the day of national solidarity, that once again it is the pro-government representatives who are kicking this up, which would otherwise be an important aspect and an important unity, so that we can really talk about this matter by putting the party political aspects aside. I have found that the Secretary of State is not responsible for this debate. Obviously, in Mr Potápi's speech, we can agree with what has been said in addition to the appropriate critical content. We also consider these national policy goals and the results listed to be extremely important. Obviously, in terms of a unified system, we find that the criticisms of Jobbik and MSZP are well founded. I'm going to give you my criticism of that. [[17.00]] But overall, I think that the introduction of Mr Secretary of State was certainly capable of launching a constructive debate. I am sorry that Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond began his speech by listing the names of the parties, and he immediately started a party political debate. I think it is very harmful that, on the issue of national policy, we are becoming less and less able to achieve a national unity, and the parties in the motherland, with the exception of a certain opposition party, are able to speak with one voice on this issue. In many cases, however, it has been proven that united action is needed in order to achieve concrete results. This is what I have experienced, by the way, while in Brussels I have done a political task, that there was indeed a need for all Hungarian political forces and international allies and friends to help us achieve important results on the LMP proposal. For example, it was not so long ago, last year, the Eastern Partnership Summit, and in this way we managed to include in the final document of this summit the very important expectation of the Heads of State or Government at the summit that partner countries seeking to reach the European Union must really accept the right of national minorities to education in their mother tongue, which is an extremely important right and is linked to an extremely important European Union value. Unfortunately, states that wish to approach the European Union do not always respect this. Moreover, it should be added that this kind of unity, in order to be united here in the motherland policy, is also underlined by the fact that, unfortunately, many principles are not respected in neighbouring countries, as well as in the EU Member States, do not follow many values that are the core values of the European Union. In this way, unfortunately, Hungarians living outside the border could not enforce their legitimate expectations in many respects and could not guarantee their rights. Unfortunately, I've seen a lot of attacks in recent years that are highly illegal. You have mentioned, perhaps, my fellow Members, in Transcarpathia, what we can observe, the Ukrainian educational law and the language law. So it would be extremely important for it to be the members of the government who really ignore party politics and this unworthy attitude on this issue. Overall, on this issue, I believe that my fellow opposition Members have identified legitimate problems. We can say, too, that despite the fact that we consider the operation of the fund to be an important endeavour, and we welcome the fact that next year's budget also shows that the resources are increasing for these extremely important tasks, we are indeed experiencing serious problems within the system that is considered to be uniform. It is precisely transparency, perhaps mentioned by Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, that it is transparency that is the least relevant, and we see it in terms of the use of resources. This should be fundamentally changed. However, we consider it to be the most important problem, and this is what Congressman Molnár has referred to as less than justified involvement. Indeed, what is happening is that, in fact, on the basis of party political considerations, Fidesz MEPs and Fidesz politicians make decisions regarding the use of the fund and do not sufficiently involve those whose opinions are needed. The stakeholders are not involved, and unfortunately, in this way, criticisms are indeed justified that a kind of culture building or moonyard construction is taking place. We can say that it is not the government's national policy goals, but the Fidesz's power-technical goals, despite the fact that, of course, many important national policy goals are being achieved, I do not wish to be taken away. In terms of the use of resources, we would consider it important to increase rationality, efficiency and, in any case, to strengthen and introduce some kind of feedback system that strengthens or confirms that efficiency has been improved. My fellow Member, Jobbik, mentioned fragmentation as a problem. I think that this kind of centralisation is more of a problem, that, in fact, Fidesz and politicians and people close to the government actually make decisions through personal contacts. For my part, I see this as a bigger problem. Despite all this, I would like to ask once again my fellow pro-government Members that, in view of the challenges facing Hungarians across borders, they are trying to bear in mind that they are really trying to avoid party politics fighting on this issue, not attacking opposition parties. They mentioned the LMP, by the way. I think that the LMP has been a strong representative of its national commitment over the past many years, and we stand on every forum to represent the interests of Hungarians across borders in line with our instruments. I was there again on the 10th of March on the day of Szekler's freedom in Marosvásárhely, and I was surprised to find that there was no one there from the government, in return, Katalin Szili's letter was read to the thousands of Szeklers assembled. So please do not question either the national commitment of LMP, Jobbik or MSZP, I believe that all opposition parties have already demonstrated their commitment to representing the interests of Hungarians across borders. I can say that, in addition to my criticisms, we believe that the LMP faction believes that it is acceptable, and we will therefore support it in the vote. Thank you. [[Dr. Zsolt Molnár and Dr. Tamás Bellozó applaud.]]
u2018-07-03-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc is next. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the comments and for the sensible questions. I'll try to answer a few things. The first question may have been the real estate issue on several occasions. What I can tell you here is that the Bethlen Gábor Fund doesn't currently own any real estate, has no headquarters. He is also in a rented office after moving out of the House of Hungarians. Here, the law allows, for example, to perform trust functions in an empty state property or empty state property, or, as we have seen the dynamic growth of the fund in the last 5-6 years, it may be necessary once to, say, open cross-border consulting offices where cross-border organisations can hold training and tendering advice. This amendment offers all these two things, the settlement of the headquarters and the possibility of later expansion. On the issue of interest equity, I can say that this is an extension, that it is not only possible to waive interest when a person deviates from the objective set out in the contract, but, for example, when a person has an obligation to repay and is late, there is no time to pay back the source he otherwise has to repay. So we're talking about an extension, so there's a lot of things that can be done with equity in the form of interest relief. I wanted to respond to opposition criticisms, the National Cooperation Fund. This is where church and ethnic support comes in. Civil aid was not, it was also excluded from the powers of the so-called Secretary of State, it was the State Secretary for Church, Nationality and Civil Society Relations before, and civil society relations were lost to another department of the Prime Minister's Office. There is no change in the NEA, the National Alliance Fund's cross-border grants, and we have recently achieved the result that the motherland organisation can apply separately for cross-border co-workers, it does not always have to be connected, it is not always separate, and the Bethlen Gábor Fund will not handle those applications. Here, I will continue with the specifically domestic, cross-border ecclesiastical and 12 national support... later. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-192	Thank you very much. He also applied for a two-minute speech from Fidesz, Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-193	Dear House, Mr President, A few answers for the congressmen. Mr Szávay also acknowledged the legislation, and at the beginning he began by saying that he was restless. I would encourage you to calm down, because I think this legislation is completely in order. Thank you for the special recognition of the transparency of data, and I quote, the search engine is working very well. So this is a special recognition of the operation of the fund. With regard to the waiver of interest, which my fellow Member has said, I would add that it does not apply to economic development programmes. Where aid is involved in the first place, the idea of aid and support may appear, and in exceptional cases it may be appropriate for the waiver of interest to arise and to use it for the supporter's benefit. Congressman Savay accused some people of receiving funds from several places for the same purpose. I think if you're aware of a case like this, you should make an announcement. It is not good for us to talk about this in general, but if you are aware of a specific case, make an announcement, file a complaint. They may receive money from different institutions for other purposes, but if they are aware of such a case, they should press charges because it is always dangerous to cloud the case and undermine the case. That's definitely good practice. I would say to Congressman Molnár that it was you who abolished MÁÉRT, who excluded Hungarians from making proposals across the border. These programs reflect the proposals of Hungarians across borders, and anyone can acquire Hungarian citizenship and residence without further delay if he comes to Hungary to live here. So you can take part in this job. But a lot of activities take place outside the borders and cross-border institutions are involved in this work as regards proposing, deciding and monitoring. And about the clientship, is it that everyone from the Hungarians Csángó in Moldavia to Sapientia and Transcarpathia is the clientship of Fidesz, perhaps the 240 thousand people who attend Hungarian school? They are the beneficiaries of the aid, but it may be necessary to withdraw the statement that the Fidesz clientship is the beneficiary of this aid scheme. [[17.10]] One last sentence: I am also a believer in constructive debate. What I said was the fact in the past that LMP didn't vote for it. The whole point of this constructive debate is that I have expressed my hope that this will be voted on and that we can work together on such noble goals as national affairs. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr István Szávay spoke again. Here you go, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-195	Thank you very much. I'm glad that there are normal answers to a normal question, and it's been relatively rare around the house lately. The possibility of such abuse, and indeed the fact that there are such abuses, was recognised by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén himself at the previous meeting of our committee, so you should also encourage the Deputy Prime Minister to report it, he probably knows more than I do and more specifics. Congressman, this is not the way to press charges here. I will not press charges against the Rector of the Hungarian University of Transcarpathia, or one of the politicians of the DAHR, the VMSZ, for whatever it is, I do not want to be specific, I will not report anyone in this case, because what it would look like. Get rid of the loopholes that are there and set up a unified, normal, transparent check that if I want to do a program like this, I'm gonna need money from here, and it's not like I'm gonna call one of my secretary's friends, my other head of department, and my third, I don't know what kind of friend I've been making out with on one of these village days, so please, and I'm gonna need you guys to put that kind of money in here. In short and concise terms, these loopholes must be closed, there is no need to report anyone here, because this is not our goal, and I was not even in doubt, Mr President, that these funds are being used for bad purposes or bad cases, because that is not the case in most cases, and that is not the case in most cases. If so, it's another story, but here's the principle. If you are talking about it, and you have already talked about it in 2010, that it should be unified, transparent, centralised and the rest, it should be uniform, transparent and not just centralised, because it is going very well, it should always go very well, but it should also be unified and transparent to manage these resources, as it is, in this respect, not yet. It's one thing to earn very well, but that doesn't mean it's unconditionally transparent. A lot has been said, in my previous speech I have tried to concentrate on what I have actually been overselling my time, let us admit to ourselves what the questions that are in the proposal are, and on this basis we are trying to judge it, which is always very difficult, let us be honest. For example, Mr Zsolt Molnár is right about this, because when any law, whatever it is, comes before us, an opposition representative must not only look at what is in it, but what else should have been put into it, or what is missing from it, and it is tempting to judge the proposal on this basis. I think the Socialist Party is bad at saying no on the basis of what is missing from this law and not just looking at what is actually in it. Nevertheless, I should bring some things here, Mr. Secretary, and some of them have already been affected by you. If the Bethlen Gábor Fund can come here in some form to the Parliament once, practically every one or two years, then I think that a much broader amendment, a package of proposals could have been brought in. If you think national cooperation is as important as it is not, you just say it, you might have had some sort of consultation with the opposition, or with Hungarian organizations across the border concerned, that no, six or seven years have passed, and even eight now, I think, in 2010, was the establishment of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, seven or eight years have passed, let's look at what the system has come to change. We would have had plenty of ideas for this, by the way, not necessarily just a political one, which we have talked about a million times, I always say, and you always tell me why it is well, but even in terms of concrete operation. What is critical of us, and that continues, and you seem to be unwilling to change that, while we are talking about transparency, is an unacceptable proportion of individual proposals. So it's supposed to be a system where you can apply and get money on a tender basis. In fact, 90 percent of the money is actually decided on the basis of individual requests, which otherwise offer a wide range of opportunities for abuse, poaching and perseverance of cross-border clientele. In many cases, as we have seen from the cited gross example, there are a number of other cases, but there is practically enough a few-page description to win tens of millions of forints, but also hundreds of millions of forints, while, in the various application systems, a civil society organization in Hungary can even acquire a few hundred thousand forints, after passing through various political filters, which is not easy, often complicated, bureaucratic obstacles. We would continue to think it good and right that, among the funds at the fund's disposal, which were significantly increased, much more could be applied for by Hungarian civil society organisations across the border, whether they are church organisations, traditionalists or youth organisations, on which the Secretary of State brought them here. We are indeed pleased that we have been able to make a proposal to you on this matter that has been heard, and we are pleased that the government attaches special importance to Hungarian young people and Hungarian youth organisations within the Hungarian communities abroad. Without them, there is no future; this is rather corny, but deeper truth. The matter of education and education support has been brought here by the Secretary of State. I wouldn't have brought this, but you know, Mr Secretary, that this is certainly a matter of debate in many ways. Yeah, you admitted that, I know, you had good intentions about that, we talked about it several times. I don't know where this thing went wrong, obviously the decision-making within the government is the same as the ordinary citizen's approach to the state: when something unfair happens at some point, the ordinary citizen is angry at the state, he never really knows who's responsible for it, where to get it, and who to complain to. Obviously, there's one person responsible for this, which we may never know. I urge the Secretary of State to take up this fight again at the beginning of a new term in the reform of education and training support, all the more so because we obviously agree on this, from our previous discussion it has come to light that this system is not good, and not only is it not good, but it is beginning to be very little now. Forgive me, Mr. Secretary of State, I do not think that it is a success, which you considered as a success a few weeks or a couple of months ago at a committee meeting, that after taking a lot of money from Hungarian parents across the border earlier, they reduced education and education support from HUF 22 400 to HUF 17 200, and with it, this amount went back from 22 400 to 17 200, and you have raised it after a few years, and now you will receive HUF 22 400 again for families; about HUF 22 400, as it has been since 2001 to this day, so the amount of educational support has remained unchanged for 17 years. I really think that the amount itself is worth changing or even rethinking the whole structure, whether by means of a problem map, whether this money is the amount itself, which, let's say, in the Highlands is not worth as much as it was a few years ago, in Transcarpathian, it was, perhaps, but in the Highlands, for example, it was not necessarily motivated at all to send it to Hungarian schools. So does this motivate Hungarian children, Hungarian parents, or does it motivate only the parents of Gypsy children, for example, in Eastern Highlands? Let's be clear about this case. I have been trying to be clear about this case for years, and it never broke through the media wall in particular, but at least last year, Minister Balog did, and he became a great purpharl, even though he was absolutely right. It must be said that in many places in the Carpathian Basin education support has become no longer necessarily a tool for sending Hungarian children to Hungarian school, but has gone in the direction of creating segregations. In fact, I would like to go on and say this for many times, because nothing has changed in the world, there are also Hungarian schools in southern Hungary where Muslim-religious, Albanian-speaking gypsy children go to the Hungarian school for 20 thousand forints, which your South Country ally, the VMSZ, i.e. the installation of these gypsies in the Hungarian villages, which I think is somewhat contrary to the Hungarian government's vehement anti-migrant policy closed. [[17.20]] And one more thought about education and education grants. Also a lonely struggle for many years with some results, the role of OTP in this matter. The largest Hungarian bank with whom we trust each other, who still refuses to honour the Hungarian citizens and even its clients in every Hungarian branch abroad by using native language subtitles and serving them in their native language, or, for example, by providing a native-speaking administrator in the recruitment of various grants through Bethlen Gábor Fund, most or most importantly education support. Minister Péter Szijjártó spoke about this at his last hearing that he was supposed to have personally consulted President Csányi. We're seeing some progress, so I don't want to be completely unfair to the OTP, but I think they'll still give me a job in the next few months. By the way, I've just heard it, just to give you an example, because when you make an example, it's always easier to solve than if you talk in general. According to our information, the last employee who spoke Hungarian was recently sent from OTP in Széchellye; otherwise we are talking about a 20-30 percent Hungarian city. So instead of expanding the range of employees of Hungarian nationality and communicating in Hungarian, they send the last. This may have been for some other reason, but it is said to have happened. Overall, however, I am running out of time to talk about the total amount of subsidies, Mr. Secretary of State: it is welcome that over the past years, the amount of subsidies the Hungarian State and the Hungarian Government support the Hungarian communities abroad has grown year by year and in different areas. Many times now the amount, especially if we include economic development aid, which was granted up to 2010-12, not to mention the amounts that the socialist government had previously supported this area. It's obvious. The problem is that we are beginning to see more and more, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, that somehow everything else is running out in the process. It's as if it's more and more that the government wants to replace any other stand with money, in foreign policy, in diplomacy. Money is not everything, fellow Members. The increase in subsidies to foreign Hungarians in different areas is good. The fact that the government is becoming increasingly associated with a philosophy that does not confront the neighbouring countries on certain issues; in the event of the adoption of certain laws which adversely affect Hungarians, it does not choose the diplomatic stand either openly or in the background, but is increasingly beginning to be the way that it is well and then paid. In a Chekonic way. They're closing up school in the Highlands? All right, we'll pay for it. Can't we solve the problem of self-educating Hungarian medicine in Marosvásárhely? Okay, then go to Sapientia, then the Hungarian state will pay for it. I think this is a mistake, Mr. Secretary. In this form, I consider this a national political misdirection. I would like to stress that the increase in subsidies is good, but we do not think it is good to see it, and we are beginning to see more and more examples of you wanting to solve everything beyond the borders with money. I can't do this. In many ways, there are also very deep psychological and sociological aspects of this issue; for now, let us just say that we cannot. There are certain cases that cannot be avoided. There are certain cases where European cooperation with Robert Fico cannot be more important. There are certain matters that cannot be more important than the fact that we are in a great deal of fraternity with the current Serbian government, which has been devolved from former Chetniks. I ask you, even if this does not necessarily fall under the authority of the Secretary of State, but we can rarely discuss this issue here in front of the public of Parliament, and not only at a committee meeting, so please consider this. Can't the Hungarian foreign and national policy's goal or instrument be to avoid any conflict and ask for a further one minute extension, Mr. President? [[On behalf of the President:]] Thank you very much, we cannot aim to take on more and more tasks from neighbouring states in areas where the Hungarian system of institutions should also be operated from the tax of citizens of Hungarian nationality. Indeed, the most critical example of this was the highland school affair. When the Hungarian-Slovakian relations were raging and high, and Prime Minister Orbán, after we asked him that, he clearly said that closing one third of Hungarian schools is not a case that he can go to Fico. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Then what could he have gone there with? We welcome the increase in subsidies, but we should put a kind of national political determination on the side, stand up against the Hungarians' violations and stand up for the Hungarian autonomy efforts. I would like to ask you with respect and the representatives of the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-196	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Potápi applied for a speech. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-07-03-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Let me answer a few questions, although most of them have been done by my fellow Members as rapporteur, and I still know that they are applying for a speech. About the property, as has been said, the BGA is in a rental on Gellérthegy Street, the House of Hungarians is also in the Danube Palace, I think it is not in the long term. So we need to resolve the placement of both institutions as soon as possible in a worthy property which is intended to indicate that it is one of the major institutions of national politics if we are talking about the House of Hungarians or if we are talking about Bethlen Gábor Fund. We talked a lot about transparency. I am pleased that Mr President is beginning to feel that he will find the calls for proposals and find out who has won these applications. I am pleased about this, and I will continue to strive for this to happen in the future. I'm going to jump on this question one more time. Where did you fail? I don't know, he's lost somewhere over time. I think that, by the way, it was mainly the disagreement between foreign organizations, because they said something quite different, let's say, the Hungarians in Vojvodina, like the Transcarpathians, and I could put it back and forth. I don't think it's a success to raise it back from 17 200 to 22 400 because it was a retraction. Indeed, the value of this is not as much as it was in 2002. If we have a source for this, we will, of course, try to help. By the way, I would also refer back to the fact that, at the same time in the Highlands, educational support was granted to a foundation that achieved educational goals, but did not come to the parents. We have the intention, the intention, to get to the parents and the children in particular, that Hungarian families should feel that they have received financial help from the Hungarian government, Hungary, to start school. You can't fix everything with money, we know that, but there are cases, and we're not talking about money, when I think that seeking consensus will lead to a much faster goal. In such cases, the possibility of how we can help and solve problems effectively should be looked at. This was also the case in Transcarpathia in 2015 when we got the Hungarian parties to cooperate, let's say the Ukrainian legislative change also played a part in this, but we managed to get them to a negotiating table, and we were able to launch them together in municipal elections. [[17 .30]] This also resulted in historical success. We have not been able to achieve this fully in Transylvania, but I believe that this must be pursued constantly. I do not want to get involved in the details of this, and I think that the general debate in Parliament has slipped a little into the framework and details of the Commission debate, but unfortunately, we also see in the institutions that the impossibility takes place for ten to twenty years. We need to prepare for alternative solutions, obviously not giving up our original positions. The high school. We do not want to take over the Hungarian school system instead of the Slovaks and the Slovak state, but in order to see what kind of problem it was, the closure of one third of the Hungarian schools was at HUF 1 billion, and the Prime Minister said that if this was not the case, the Hungarian government would come to the aid of these schools. I think that this was a pragmatic response to the situation. The fact is that in the case of Slovakia, we have not been able to solve the Double Citizenship Act, but it is also a fact that in recent times particular atrocities have not been worth the Hungarians in the Highlands there. Moreover, this issue does not concern Hungarians in the Highlands, as 90 percent of Slovaks who acquire Czech citizenship are affected by this, especially Slovak businessmen, Slovak artists and doctors who have been looking for work in the neighbouring Czech Republic and have been living there for several decades. I think that they are even more destined and interested in getting their Slovak citizenship back. Once again, it was necessary to amend the law, and obviously this amendment gave us the opportunity, or induced, a smaller national political debate day here in Parliament, but that those who listen to us or look at us in some way in the early evening know that, once again, the amendment has legal reasons, or structural changes, we have to do so because of the changes in the government structure, because the Deputy Prime Minister's duties include, in addition to foreign Hungarians, the supervision of churches, foreign and domestic churches and the 12 nationalities, coordination of their activities, and therefore, since the BGA will play a financial role, it is necessary to amend this law. This is not, by the way, a major, comprehensive amendment to the law, to which a seven-party consultation could possibly be convened. If this is the case, then, of course, the congressman will bang open doors. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. Congressman István Szávay, two-minute comment.
u2018-07-03-199	Thank you very much for your answers, Secretary of State. Three short reactions. I don't want to lie to you for the world, but this billion forints seems awfully small to me. [[Árpád János Potápi: That's it!]] I don't know how many tens or hundreds of schools out of a billion forints can work. But by the way, it wasn't about the amount, Mr. Secretary. It was about the principle, I ask you to understand. So it's a good thing that we have 1 billion forints, the Hungarian state, to do so, if that is what it is; I object, Mr. Secretary of State, that the Prime Minister was not naturally to sit down with his largest national, Central European pal, and tell him that, Mr. Prime Minister, Robert, my dear brother, don't do this, please; I understand that this is not what this is about, rationalizing, or touching other schools, and the rest, but what you want here is that you are cutting home a third of the Hungarian school. And the Prime Minister said he wouldn't do that, because he can't go to the Slovak Prime Minister with a case like this, only I don't know what he's going to do if he doesn't. Intention and attitude are the questions here and my problem with what it was. I welcome it, and I am very pleased with it, and in which we, in this struggle of the opposition, can support the Secretary of State to have something with the system of education and education grants, I am confident that we will do it for our part. But let us proceed with caution because the system that you said was the Pázmány Foundation in the Highlands, which had to be done because of the opposition of the Slovak state, should be a good example, the maladministration of that system, because at that time these funds could not get directly to the families, but it was spent by this foundation, which ended with the provision of EUR 15 gymnastics from the clothing store of the parents who were close to the foundation, and bought things that were not necessarily necessary, but at least some entrepreneurs did well. So let us give an example that it was not necessarily a well - functioning model! Let us search and search for it, or discuss or discuss how this issue could be done better, and what would be the amount that would really help the Hungarian families to send their children to Hungarian school abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-07-03-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to take advantage of this debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I ask the authors how they wish to respond to what was said in the debate, together or separately. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Separately.]] Separately. Here you go. First? [[Nacsa Lawrence points to you.]] Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc!
u2018-07-03-201	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for your contributions in this debate. I would like to point out to my fellow Member in the LMP that, of course, we need a minimum of national policy and we need constructive cooperation, and I think that Mr Szávay has also asked intelligent questions and questions about the proposal, and you have asked some similar questions, and we have tried to answer them, and I think we have managed to answer them. However, it is difficult to stay at this minimum when, for example, a proposal for restructuring, which includes technical amendments, the MSZP representative says that it is not supported, it is not working, it is bad, so I think it is difficult. Obviously, we are not disappointed in the answer to the MSZP, which is what we expected, since we expect nothing more from them in national politics. The paranoia in Congressman Molnár's mind is such that he also lists the Fidesz Cluenture as a group of dove dancers, who receive subsidies, obviously the top of everything. I would like to point out that settlements not run by pro-government mayors have also won the sister settlement applications, and obviously few have applied. So tell the MSZP mayors that it is worth establishing sisterhood relationships across the border, because there are few of them, and there are very good resources for this at the Bethlen Gábor Fund, and great programs are being implemented. I would reject the fact that there are always sub-headings in the tendering system where the Bethlen Gábor Fund will be launched together with a local player in Transylvania, Transcarpathia, Vojvodina or Felvidék as a regional tender. This is usually about teaching associations, so the involvement of local actors is as good as possible, and we are even putting the application in place. I think that their opinions will be fully heard, and they have absolute say in it. I say to Mr Szávay that I fully agree with the OTP case, and it is obviously very important that these inscriptions, like bilingual subtitles and Hungarian subtitles, should be replaced wherever they should be. However, the fact that the ability to assert interest and the money are all I would reject is that in the last one or two years only two cases, the situation in Transcarpathia, with the Ukrainian education law or the Roman Catholic Lyceum in Marosvásárhely, where, I think, Mr Potápi State Secretary, Deputy Prime Minister Semyen, Minister Szijjártó or the Prime Minister has done everything to settle the matter, and they have moved everything, they have met and talked to everyone they needed. So obviously we have seen a very high level of interest enforcement here, and I think that we have also achieved results in this respect. [[17.40]] This is obviously why, for example, Katalin Szili was appointed Prime Minister for such negotiations in terms of autonomy efforts. So the subject has a responsibility, by the way. It was also about individual applications, Mr President. Maybe the name's wrong here. This may not be the case, but about 85-90 percent of the framework here goes to support institutions such as the National Council or the Sapientia or the Scout Associations or the Jókai Theatre in Komárom, the Csemads, the Europe College network, the Szeklerland Ice Hockey Academy and the Rákóczi Association. Therefore, these institutions receive this support for their programmes on a programme basis. This is called unique in the BGA system, which account for 90 percent of the unique line. In addition to that, there's the 10 to 12 percent you thought that if you filed it, there's a force majeure. For example, in the storm damage in Transylvania, several churches were injured, and there we were able to help. I think that there is obviously a need to maintain a certain framework for such cases, but 90 percent of the specific BGA framework goes to support such institutions. I would like to thank everyone in this debate once again for the constructivity from whom we have experienced constructivity, and I would also ask the factions, the MSZP fraction, to reconsider their position and support the law. I think it is talkative that the Dialogue and DK fractions did not talk to him, but did not represent themselves in the debate; this is not an important issue for them at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-202	Thank you very much. Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond finishes his response to the questions and speeches he has said. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would also like to thank you very briefly for the constructive contributions, which have been constructive, but there have been several constructive contributions, and I would like to thank you again. I would like to respond to Mr Szávay's last speech in a few points. Again, he uses the word "clienture" and repeatedly this smokescreen. I would suggest that, in a spirit of constructive atmosphere, we set a positive example and say that the subsidies go to the right place, the system is transparent, the system works well. This should be the message we're taking, because if we really support this case, if we really believe in it, then we think it's important, and we see 99.99 percent good, and if there are mistakes or things we don't agree with, then it can be mentioned. But once again, I would ask you not to make a fuss that there is a culture and that we apply other negative indicators to the system. We stress the positive features, because in the other half of this speech, you pointed out how good the system is and how well it works and how effectively this policy works. In relation to OTP, as a senior consul, I have found that many times Hungarian based multis, like OTP, MOL, Richter, and others try to use the Hungarian language either in ATMs or in banking software or in gas stations, have different practices. I agree that we should encourage companies not to give up, because it often means extra energy, extra money, and therefore they are often exterminated by the authorities, because that's what they do. We see how observant the OTP is, the Romanian authorities did not allow it to purchase another bank. So let's say, in a hostile environment, these companies often operate. I have often found that local entrepreneurs do not use Hungarian, local Hungarian entrepreneurs. It's another dimension. I agree that we are pushing for this, and what I have seen with regard to OTP is that they are doing everything in their power to use the Hungarian language or to be employed in Hungarian where possible, and they support a lot of Hungarian events, whether they are OTP, MOL, Richter or others. But I agree that we should push for this step in any case. Money is everything, and that's a strong word. I don't want to go to internal political dimensions here, that for money, for power. So I would suggest that, in a spirit of agreement, we emphasise that national policy considers the symbolic dimension and the economic dimension to be important at the same time and considers it important to respect traditions and modernity at the same time. I think that Fidesz-KDNP's national policy is successful because it has been able to combine them, it has been able to bring in a new dimension that considers these dimensions important at the same time. In this constructive spirit, I think it would be appropriate to find new chapters where we can work together, new directions where we can make Hungarians across the border grow both in terms of soul and living conditions and living standards. This legislation is also aimed at this, so I would definitely ask for your support for this legislation. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The 2011 CLXII on the status and remuneration of judges now follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by our Fidesz fellow Members Csaba Hende and István Bajkai T/711. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr István Bajkai, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, István Bibó chose the spirit historical analysis of the separation of state powers as his academy chair in 1947. According to István Bibó's creed, state theory is the eternal issue of state operation, the practical application of the principles of power sharing, and the way in which moralism and service influence state functioning. As we know, the Hungarian legal system is closest to the German, Austrian legal system as part of continental law, and there they also formed an independent concept of the consciousness of the service, in German Servicebewussstein, which is an unfortunate principle that has been almost completely eliminated from Hungarian public thinking and public administration practice for the long, bloody decades of socialism. The theory of Montesquieu's division of power, which he explained in 1748 in his work entitled The Spirit of Laws, was also translated in Hungary during his travels, also respected by Cicero, Berzsenyi, Kölcsey, in fact, on the dogma of the flumen orationis aureum called the golden river Aristotle, based on the so-called Aristotelian State formatology, which Aristotle began to formulate in his final form more than three centuries before the birth of Jesus during the teaching of Alexander the Great, and in his book Politics IV. He explained in his book, chapter 14, which I quote literally is a theory of more than two thousand years: Each state organisation has three factors, and from the point of view of these three factors, the serious legislator has to determine what benefits each state form has. One of these is the body that consults on state affairs, the second is the senior officials' office and the third is the judiciary. For more than two thousand years, therefore, the division of power, i.e. power, must be limited by power, one of the important principles and criteria for the proper functioning of the state. Based on these millennial principles, it is therefore an important requirement of the constitutional principle of the rule of law that judicial activity is exercised solely by public courts. There is a prohibition that justice cannot be exercised by other public bodies outside the courts, bodies of social organisations established for that purpose, such as professional committees or individuals. The principle of judicial monopoly of the judiciary is set out in Article 25 (1) of the Fundamental Law as a constitutional rule. The Fundamental Law states that the courts carry out judicial activities, further specify which cases should be used for judicial purposes, and allow me to state the principle of judicial independence in this area. We use the concept of judicial independence with two contents: on the one hand, judicial independence means the independence of the judicial judgment, when the judge is obliged to act under the law, but when judging the case and applying the law, it is best to follow his conviction, to say, without any influence. On the other hand, in a broader sense, judicial independence is the independence of the judicial organization system, which is the basis for determining the place of the courts in the system of division of power, and for settling their relationship with other constitutional bodies, in particular the Parliament, the President of the Republic and the Government. Personal independence is a protected status for the judge against his/her superior. As a result, the judge is not subject to any disadvantage which may affect his or her person as a result of his or her inappropriate judgments. However, together with personal independence, professional independence must also be guaranteed to the judge. Article 26 (1) of the Fundamental Law ensures that judges can be removed from office only for reasons and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the cardinal law. [[17.50]] The 2011 CLXII on the status and remuneration of judges. I am going to shorten this constitutional provision as Bj., and this legislation is also the basis for the proposal before us. Dear House, Article 25 (8) of the Fundamental Law states that: "The supervision of the organisation, administration and central administration of the courts, the detailed rules on the status of judges and the remuneration of judges are laid down by a fundamental law. The legal status of the Judges, i.e. the formation and termination of the judicial service, the rights and obligations of the Judges, the rules on the assessment of the Judge's work and the incompetence procedures, the practitioners of the employer's powers against the Judges, the disciplinary liability of the Judges, the liability of the Judge for compensation, the rules on disputes arising from the service of the Judge and the remuneration of the Judges are Bjt. It's regulated. How can a person become a judge? The formation of a judge's service is essentially possible in two ways. Among the more frequent cases, when the lawyer starts his work as a judicial author, he is appointed as a court secretary after having passed the legal exam, and then he applies for the vacancy. The second is when a lawyer applying for a judicial position operates with another employer, so he is not a member of the judiciary, and so he applies for appointment. A person over the age of 30 may be appointed, who is a Hungarian citizen, who is not a guardian of legal capacity or has obtained a university degree in law, has passed the legal exam, has made a declaration of assets, and has obtained a certificate of competence for the practice of the judicial profession, or has been a court secretary or a judiciary-related activity for at least one year. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Former LXVII of 1997 on the status and remuneration of judges. Taken over by law, Bjt. 23. Paragraph 3 of the Act provides for judges appointed by an international organisation or an agency of the European Union to enter into a legal relationship or other work related to the administration of justice and to act as rector or head of a research institute or research institute acting as a budgetary body of a state higher education institution to return to their judicial profession following their duties as referred to above. Pursuant to the rules in force, a re-appointed Judge shall be requested within 30 days of the end of the term of office, which shall take place without the publication of a tender. On the proposal of the President of the National Court of Justice, the President of the Republic shall be entitled, if the judge has previously held a fixed-term appointment, to a fixed-term appointment if he has previously held an indefinite appointment. A post at the place of duty shall take place following the appointment of the Judge. The procedure for the post at the post of duty shall also be laid down in the current Bj. In that case, it shall be treated as if the Judge assigned to the OBH ceased his office. The Judge shall be assigned to a place of effective judicial post and, where appropriate, to the post of President of the Chamber without a proposal, or shall be appointed at least at the same level as before or at least at the place of employment, preferably at the place of residence of the Judge. In other places of service, the judge may be assigned only with his consent. The current legislation also provides that the time spent in an international organisation or an institution of the European Union or in a public higher education institution, research centre or research institute is to be considered as a period of service. It does not change the regulation of the bill substantially, it retains the system for the time limit for submitting the application, the rules on appointment, the rules on position. However, the rules in force need to be corrected in order to ensure that there is a standard clarity requirement and the unity of application of the law, since the text in force provides that the judge may request that he be re-appointed as a judge within 30 days of the end of his term of office. The Bjt. 23. Paragraph 3 of Article 3 contains a number of different provisions concerning the legal relationship established with a body of the European Union, an international organisation, or established as a rector in a state higher education institution as a leader, a research centre or a research institute, for which there may be different rules, and it is therefore appropriate that the law refers to the termination of the term of office instead of the expiry of the term of office. This turn of events ensures a uniform interpretation of the law for all legal relationships. The provision of Bjt, which is to be amended by the bill, is fundamental in accordance with Article 25 (8) of the Fundamental Law and Article 26 (1) and (2) of the Basic Law. §2 is also a fundamental rule under this provision of the Fundamental Law. Dear House, On this basis, I propose to the Parliament that you support the motion before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, if he would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As stated in the exposé by the authors, this amendment must be supported in the interests of clarity. I ask my fellow Members to support it.
u2018-07-03-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Salacz. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-209	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to announce that the Group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance supports the bill before us, as it introduces a text that meets the requirement of standard clarity and ensures the unity of case law. Dear House, My fellow Members, the rapporteur's speech also shows that the motion before us contains a provision whereby CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. Law 23. § 3 becomes more precise. It is proposed that if the Judge's service is Bjt. 90. § (g) or (n) because the judge establishes or receives the legal relationship specified therein, after the expiry of his term of office, he may ask that he be reappointed by the President of the Republic without a tender being issued. The Bjt. 90. Paragraph (g) and (n) of the Act covers several different mandates, and therefore the latency of the law applied by its current text does not ensure the application of the single law, so that we can make use of the change in the future. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that my fellow Member has already made a long presentation of the need for a bill, which makes it easier to re-judge former judges, I would like to ask you to support this proposal, which is duly supported by the profession. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-07-03-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal before us is a technical point which is eligible, so there is no problem with that, but, Mr Secretary, when I read this and thought about it as a small, eligible technical, interpretation point, it seemed to me a little bit as if that was the only problem with the law of the court, and that otherwise everything would be okay in the house of justice. This is obviously not the case, and I have to say that I would like to live in a country where we have had all the debates, all the problems have been resolved, and there are no more proposals to be made by the opposition, but only one or two technical amendments, the appointment exercise or the seconded judges who do not actually engage in judicial activity, if this legal relationship expires, then how can they be reinstated into their positions. That would be normal. [[18.00]] My fellow Members, perhaps my fellow Member from Bajkai, who spoke before me, started from far away with such Greek examples. I didn't understand how this technical proposal was associated with it, how it was related to it. But let me talk about some of the things that should have been changed, or the government should have come up with a solution in some way, because today, judicial independence, independence of justice are being damaged every day, and this damage cannot be eliminated by the government, or Parliament, without the legislative activity. Unfortunately, we are now at a point where I have to think, or I am convinced, that this was part of a conscious legislative work that left these loopholes for the current OBH President, in this case, Tünde Hando. Today, we are talking about the fact that the head of the courts, who, although an administrative director, is an administrative director, is in many cases most responsible for the fact that in many cases the laws are not properly enforced and enforced, and this raises concerns that judicial independence can indeed be damaged. By the way, we are not the only ones saying this now, because when the laws establishing this were adopted by the Parliament in 2011, it was considered that these loopholes could be used for abuse. Of course, the majority of Fidesz-KDNP denied it then. But as there are usually loopholes that are opened, they also go through it, not only through the loopholes, but by stretching it out as an elephant, they spread the loophole into a big gate, and they actually break through the wall through this attack point. What am I thinking? Although some of the laws concerning the appointment of court leaders or judges have been amended, at the moment there is a situation where the President of the OBH, the Fairy of Hando, does not have a boss, can do virtually anything, can effectively deviate from the law itself, and there is no one to speak against it or to speak out, but its effect is a large round zero. We have heard from the government that the National Judicial Council is the body that is entitled to do so to check out Hando's Fairy. Well, that was only so long as we could hear government speeches until the National Judicial Council decided that Tünde Hando's appointment practice did not comply with Hungarian legislation. We may also recall that the Constitutional Court is talking about the regulation of Tünde Hando, which has destroyed certain points in relation to the Code of Integrity, which would have imposed restrictions on the private life of judges and on their conduct as a public office which did not comply with constitutional requirements. I think in every rule of law, if even a few points of a court leader's rules are thus annulled by the Constitutional Court, the minimum is not only to offer his resignation but also to resign from his post. Not only did this not happen, but the government did not react to this situation, I would add that the Constitutional Court cannot be accused of not having any overlaps between the Fidesz interests and the opinions expressed by its members in relation to its members. Not to mention that it also seems in very clear situations that when the law should be abolished, the Constitutional Court does not decide. But I don't want to talk about the Constitutional Court. Even this body of composition couldn't undertake not to destroy the integrity code. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] We also had to see that some judges, in addition to turning to the Constitutional Court and having achieved some success there, were obliged to turn to Strasbourg against this appointment practice if the government had done nothing. And there has been this very strange case, although with all due respect to the court of first instance, which has delivered this judgment, that it has also been declared by a court that Tünde Hando's appointment practice has been illegal in respect of the individual, not only of the leaders, but also of the individual judges' posts. What is happening is that, after a tender is put out, it should be evaluated, and the various forums for commenting within the judicial forum, Tünde Handó, would have the opportunity to appoint a candidate or to request a derogation from the ranking from the National Judicial Council. In many cases, he did not do so, but resorted to the third instrument, as regards the declaration of non-compliance with the tender. This means that, despite the fact that there were several excellent candidates, if, let's say, there were no candidates in the lead, or if they did not, who the President of the OBH would like to appoint, he will throw the entire tender back and start again. He's running again, and if he's declared ineffective twice, it's possible to put almost anyone there on assignment. Can you imagine that if there was a candidate on the job for a few years, it could have such an impact on the next proposals that the judges of the court were supposed to break down and put him in a better place in the next tender, and then he could be appointed immediately. That's the drill we've seen more than once. In this case, too, there is an obligation to state reasons for the President of the OBH. But things have moved on. So not only in the case of court leaders, where another loophole of inefficiencies, as I said, was left open, although not for this case, but when someone, say, comes from the court to the courtboard, has a tender, he wins it, then the chances of the president of the OBH declaring this tender ineffective are much stricter. Not only must there be an obligation to state reasons, but also to refer to reasons for organising work that the post no longer has to be filled. What has happened in many cases? For example, in the case of Judge Csaba Vasvári, who launched this labour law suit, which he won in the first instance, what happened was that his application came first, Tünde Handó did not appoint him on the grounds that he did not have to fill that post, but he wrote the new application in the same motion on the same job, and this happened twice. I think if, according to the Labour Code, it happened to a business company for a false reason... There are lawyers here, not only in the National Assembly, but also in the Chamber. You think if someone gets fired for a false reason, that there's a downsizing at the firm, but not just no downsizing, but they're taking someone else's place, would you win that lawsuit? Of course he'd win. What's still the picantria of the Vasvári Csaba case is that Tünde Handó, according to the latest press reports, asked for the whole case with reference to the second degree procedure, I think, court or court board... obviously, I was only able to find out about the case on the basis of press reports, maybe it was on one of the benches, but the point is that he asked the entire board to be disqualified by the fact that all the judges who worked there must be biased in relation to his president. That's interesting, because based on this logic, they admit that a court leader, let's say, a forensic, court-table or district court-martial may then make the whole court biased. This is, of course, not the case, or I dare hope it is not so yet, but this thinking, which appears at the moment through the Fidesz-KDNP, and which rings forward to the courts through the activities of Tünde Hando, is characterized by this logic. Then it makes sense why you want to appoint court leaders who are loyal everywhere, because they believe that they can supervise the entire judicial system, if not in a year or two, but we have now come to the conclusion that since 2012, it has been possible to say that, in this cycle, courts will certainly be taken in if things go on, which obviously will not be of much benefit to the Hungarian rule of law. Then, how to prevent it and where it goes or where it goes, there's no way to know. We can obviously present these problems here in Parliament or to the public, but we have very few tools, even in spite of obvious violations. [[18.10]] By the way, and we have also tried to clarify this with the Secretary of State in interpellations, but there is a shorter time frame, so it is partially unsuccessful that it is not just a problem from the outside, from the point of view of the government and the Parliament, that if the National Council of Judges, who is its top organ, would be the controlling body of the Fairy of Hando, it is practically unable to function. Because, as you can see from the press, Tünde Hando has asked me again to give up all the members who are loyal to him and who are loyal to him, so that it can be said that the National Judicial Council is inoperative and that it cannot or cannot try to implement the decisions taken. This is completely a stalemate that undermines justice. So there's a lot of work to be done. At the moment, it is Tünde Hando who exercises these rights, but it is true of the current OBH President, so if his mandate expires for Tünde Hando, the next appointed will probably carry on this exercise. Without control, the judicial administration cannot operate in this form, and if Hungary becomes a country where a person can decide to appoint judges, court leaders, and if he violates the law or not, he will be completely indifferent and unsanctioned, then Hungary will not be a rule of law. And we're not there, or we're not even there to get the answers to the specific questions that have been asked. This can also be seen from the minutes of the Judicial Committee. President Imre Vejkey is also sitting in this room, so he can confirm, I believe, that in the small, small seven minutes that each opposition faction can spend every year asking the President of the National Court of Justice or asking questions, we have not even received concrete answers. It wasn't even that they tried to poke our eyes out with some kind of answer, but they were talking about something completely different or the president of the OBH didn't answer the questions. And this has happened again, I would like to refer to the official announcement of the National Judicial Council, which is exactly what they said, that they have not even received a professional answer to their questions from the President of the OBH once. And we're really just talking about the tip of an iceberg, I'm talking about it, because there's a lot of stuff that could be added here. Unfortunately, we do not expect Hungary to rise up on international lists presenting the democratic situation until these have been corrected. I must say that, in such a situation, I do not believe that a system can be set up that could be a step forward from the point of view of administrative courts. There is only one reference in the Fundamental Law to the establishment of administrative courts. We do not yet know how this will be implemented. This could be done well, and it could be bad enough, as the examples I have presented here and now show. I ask at least for the administrative courts to show some restraint by the government, and the present proposal that I have said that, in addition to being eligible, these problems that I have said are being tried to eliminate as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-212	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman. And now I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2018-07-03-213	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In agreement with what István Bajkai has already explained in detail as our fellow Member, as regards the legal basis of the bill, at the legal level, as regards the detailed provisions of the bill, I do not wish to repeat them. However, it should be stressed that judicial independence is a standing star of democracy, which is a constitutional value of paramount importance, to which we will always insist and will continue to insist. Ladies and Gentlemen, CLXII of 2011 on the status and remuneration of judges. Law 23. Paragraph 3 of this Article ensures that judges appointed to international organisations or to a body of the European Union for legal or other work related to the administration of justice, or as rectors of a public higher education institution or head of a research institute or research institute acting as a budgetary body, return to their judicial profession after the end of their term of office as referred to above. Pursuant to the rules in force, a re-appointed Judge shall be requested within 30 days of the end of the term of office, which shall take place without the publication of a tender. The present bill is Bj. does not change its rules substantially, retains the system for the time limit for lodging an application, the rules on appointment and post. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, the current legislation, as we have heard, needs to be corrected. The Bjt. 23. § 3 contains provisions in respect of several different legal relationships, for which there may be different rules, and therefore it is justified that instead of the expiry of the order, the law refers to termination or termination of the order. This turn of events in all the legal relationships I have just listed will ensure a uniform interpretation of the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, No matter of status, organisation or administration should adversely affect the judicial activity of judges, and even our aim is to promote an increase in the professional level of judgment and to increase the prestige of judicial judgment. In closing, allow me to respond to the thoughts expressed by our fellow Member Mr Gábor Staudt. Our fellow Member Gábor Staudt acknowledged, in essence, the fact that he did not have a legal objection to the proposal. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Not in this.]] However, when it has expanded beyond and complained that the government is not interfering with the OBH-OBT conflict, there are fundamental questions about this. And here I would like to emphasise once again that Fidesz-KDNP believes that if the division of power in Montesquieu, the division of power in three is an extremely important principle, and that principle does not go beyond that. If the government intervened in the internal affairs of judges, OBH and OBT, it would violate this threefold division of power. The government is doing its job, the Parliament is doing its job, and we believe that the courts should also do their job. Thank you very much for your attention. On this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/711. Bill No. 1. Please support me. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-214	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, head speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2018-07-03-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member from Bajka could not spend eight minutes of his speech to say anything about the bill. It's not a coincidence, by the way. It is not a coincidence, fellow Members, because I cannot be as forgiving as my better colleague: it is a cowardly and corrupt bill of a cowardly and corrupt government, which has been brought here even more cowardly by its representatives as an independent motion to this House. It speaks of nothing more than the possibility that Andras Patyi may be re-judged, presumably, as President of the Supreme Court of Public Administration. If they had the guts, they would call this law what it is: this is the amendment of the law on the status of judges to appoint András Patyi. Nothing else. [[18.20]] In addition, we are talking about András Patyi, ladies and gentlemen, who, in public throughout the country, crept and humbled and begged Viktor Orbán for his mercy only because, as president of the MVB, following the laws, he fined the Prime Minister, following the majority decision of the panel. [[Dr. Pál Völner: What's wrong with that?]] Secretary of State, this video was proudly displayed on the Prime Minister's website. What's wrong? He's giggled around. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I wasn't laughing, I was just asking.]] Here's the problem: this is the man you're planning to appoint as head of the Supreme Court. And in case you don't know what's wrong, ask Bajkai's fellow Member, who spent the first eight minutes talking about the principles of Montesquieu, and specifically about the independence of judges, which really has judicial independence and indeed has organizational and personal independence. And from the man who, after following the laws, publicly pleads his apologies to the Prime Minister in front of the whole country, that he dared to punish the Hungarian law in compliance with the Hungarian law, because the Prime Minister violated the electoral procedural law, they say that with political pedophilia, well, this is the man you think is now the head of independent justice. Ladies and gentlemen, If they had touched the law, there really would have been something to fix. There was something to be corrected, as described in the GRECO report, what the profession has been saying for years, and what we have submitted several times in recent years to Parliament, which would indeed have strengthened the independence of the courts, and in particular the declines in the powers of Tünde Hando, especially as regards appointments. That's what we talked about. A review of the evaluation system for judges would be at least as important. It would be equally important to restrict the commission of judges to another place of service, and it has also been mentioned, at least as important to review the notorious code of ethics of the court. In the days that this law is presented and negotiated, as we are discussing, when the administration of the judiciary is betraying those judges, my fellow Member of Bajkai, who dare to stand up for their own independence of judgment. These people say nothing less or more than what the OBH even represented a few years ago, specifically in the case of administrative jurisdiction. Therefore, they are being sold out, and disciplinary action is being taken against them. And we are having this legislative debate just in the days when, as my fellow opposition Member has already mentioned, it is expressly stated by a court judgment that Tünde Hando violated law when he abused his powers of appointment. Then they're putting in a law that's written for the convenience of a specific person. I think it's outrageous, and I can't say anything else, and it's a cowardly, especially cowardly solution. The Attorney General could have stood here then, standing here for anyone who was so important, and tell them to tell the whole country that they would still appoint András Patyi, and if they had to, they would have changed the law. There can be no other reason for this proposal as a representative. And I wish they would deny me, but I'm afraid that the cynical smile of Mr. Secretary of State only confirms that I'm right. This bill is rejected as strongly as possible by the MSZP. Thank you for listening.
u2018-07-03-216	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2018-07-03-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is relatively rare, but I agree perfectly with the Member before me. I, too, think that it is extremely cynical behaviour that my fellow members of the Government have shown. Mr Bajkai, Member, spoke very long, going into literary heights about various things, but not about the bill. However, that is perfectly all right, because the justification for the bill does not say a word about what is intended for it; as Mr Bellozó said, it is not what is written here. This is not about clarification; this is not a proposal for a uniform interpretation of the law. This is all about making András Patyi the head of the administrative supreme court to be introduced. Technically, this lex Patyi, we call this bill by name. I think it is not worth wasting a word to justify this bill. In fact, what this bill is talking about, the Supreme Courts of Public Administration, and the appointment of András Patyi, appointed to the head of it. We can say that in itself a rather strange hysteria has started in recent weeks in connection with the introduction of an administrative court, although this is not a proposal that is originally rejected. There was an example of this, until 1949 there was administrative justice and administrative court in Hungary. At the same time, it can be seen that this is no longer the goal that the Minister of Justice put forward two or three years ago, because this new unit would have been placed under the Curia in the system, and now it would be set up as a fully independent court. So the arguments that we have heard over the last few weeks in connection with the debate on the bill or the debate on the amendment of the basic law, when the Fundamental Law enabled it or defined the purpose of the government. The government is now preparing an amendment that actually increases government influence and is capable of further weakening the independence of the courts, and this proposal is therefore totally unacceptable. I don't want to talk about András Patyi any longer. My fellow Member said that András Patyi proved that he was a loyal man to the extreme, a loyal actor, and it is scary that the government would like to appoint this man in this way, so concealed, cynical, falsely, to the head of the administrative supreme court. At the same time, Vejkey and my fellow Member from Bajkai also gave a long discussion on the importance of courts and judicial independence. I would like to make proposals or ask questions to support such a guarantee to be incorporated into the system. With regard to administrative courts, we have some proposals to implement certain rules of conflict of interest in this area as well. If you would support this, fellow pro-government figures, you could prove that they were sincere when they spoke about judicial independence, otherwise quite eloquently, we acknowledge that. Our proposal is about conflict of interest rules so that it is not possible for an administrative judge to be an official of the party in the last five years, who has started as a candidate for the party, who has served as a state leader, or who has held a position of government commissioner, prime minister, minister or government commissioner, or who has served as a public-law office to which Parliament has elected him. We consider it extremely important to apply for leadership with three years of uninterrupted judicial practice. We consider full openness, transparency in the judicial tender procedure to be extremely important, especially with regard to criteria, criticisms, scoring and transparency of applications themselves. We also consider it extremely important to talk about the real content of legislation or the law, so that, in order to prevent a subsequent stealthy extension of powers, the powers of administrative courts are limited in substance to the review of administrative decisions. Of course, the LMP will not support this perverse bill, and I will vote against it. Thank you.
u2018-07-03-218	Thank you, Congressman. Bence Tordai is not present, so the Group of Dialogue cannot now deliver the speech of the lead speaker. Now there's a two-minute window of opportunity. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2018-07-03-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I just hope this isn't lex Patyi. But I would like to say a few words about the fact that when I read this draft legislation, I was once again convinced that Fidesz's legislation was quite badly incomplete and flawed. Anyone who knew the law of the judicial organization before 2011 knows that when any judge was assigned to any non-judge position, position, position, elected, there were countless such situations and there were, then he automatically regained his position of judge. So it wasn't like he had to apply again or lynched to take the position he was in. It was an automatism. In this place of law, in this amendment, I am surprised whether the question is whether someone who has been appointed as a judge has not resigned from his duties as a judge has not been lost for any other reason, and because he has not automatically returned to his position, either as a public function or as another office that he has been accepted by the appointment of him. [[18.30]] I hope that this legislative amendment proposal is nothing but a substitute for this gap. But what I have said is that, after we have learned how to fidesz in the last eight years, I would like to ask the rapporteur and the MPs that it is not, again, a law that, after we have discussed this in a general debate, we have come up with proposals for amendments that will give rise to a completely different piece of legislation. Calm me down. By the way, I have Imre Vejkey's word for it, so if he says it's about that and nothing more, then I'll believe it. Let me know that this is not a front-runner or an initiative of a new legislation, and then we can no longer discuss it. Thank you for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-220	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey in two minutes. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Let's hear it! Let's hear it.]]
u2018-07-03-221	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to respond to the speech of our MSZP colleague Tamás Harangozó. I must reject what the Government said and what István Bajkai said about our fellow Member. Secondly, I must deny that this bill, the amendment of the law, is about lex Patyi's law, or even about administrative justice itself. The amendment of the Fundamental Law, which was adopted less than a week ago, created the framework for us to talk again about administrative justice in Hungary at all; it created the framework. After that, the Minister for Justice asked a very excellent Gremium, mainly a group of scientists and lawyers, to draw up a framework for this. They're working on it right now. As far as I know, the work will be completed by September-October, and then it will be presented to Parliament. So what I can tell you about this is that this amendment to the law is not about introducing administrative jurisdiction, and it's not about who should be president or who shouldn't be president. This is a technical amendment that, if you look deep into your heart, fellow Members, you also acknowledge. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-222	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2018-07-03-223	Mr President, Dear House, I have the courage to promise that I will not embarrass any of the MPs as much as the congresswoman. To be honest, the reason we didn't ask for a keynote speech to this bill is because we're not going below a certain level. So you're gonna bring in a bill, you're gonna choose a single paragraph of one law, and you're gonna go through it a little bit. And we're supposed to believe that you've been led only by sudden goodwill, sensitivity to problems. But Thursday afternoon, that thought came to me, before that, it wasn't a problem. Now, however, we need to do it immediately and immediately, without reviewing the entire law on judicial status, with which there are many problems and without giving at least one fair explanation. Because I am impressed by the scientific educational lectures on the history of law and the separation of powers, I can also do it, because I have serious shortcomings in this area, and thank you, but that does not justify why we have to tamper with this legislation now with emergency, static laws. We're not gonna be able to support you like this. Then, once fair legislative proposals are introduced in a fair trial, it will be worth considering how to support them. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-224	Thank you, Congressman. Now we're going back to the regulars. [[For signal:]] Then I will give the floor to Mr István Bajkai as rapporteur in two minutes.
u2018-07-03-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to answer briefly, using the possibility of two minutes. Firstly, indeed, as I said in the proposal, it is an amendment to the legislation which I think is almost self-evident. I'm off the BJ. This may have escaped the attention of Mr Bellozó from that certain number of minutes. The provisions currently in force are also very similar. As Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said, who is obviously well aware of the organisation of the courts and the legal status of the judges, it was almost natural earlier, and this is a principle, as one might say, that one who was once a judge was in line with the rules of the judicial profession, and he did his duties well, although he could not return to the court. I think it's a value that if you were a judge, and then you've proven yourself somewhere else, for example in the field of science, you can use that knowledge later, and you can continue to judge within the judicial system. But I do not fully understand the outrage from the side of the MSZP, that what is natural in a rule of law is that anyone who was a judge can once again be a judge, what is outrageous to him and what is shady to him. Well, we could give examples of the governance of the MSZP as to what we consider to be sneaky, for example, with regard to judges. But I certainly refuse to have people targeted here in the debate on this bill. In many cases, it has also been said as a criticism that, for example, in the case of judges, in the case of judgments, there is criticism of specific judgments in the building of the legislation, on the part of the legislators, where appropriate. Therefore, you have this principle of law, which you repeat with a loud voice, and what I must see now is that certain persons or cases are being judged. I don't want to get into a question that's not on the subject, by the way. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll be brief, I'll finish it, it's not the subject of the current bill, although we can discuss this issue if it comes up in connection with the operation of the OBH. But the fact that you place targets on a specific person, specific legislation, and case, and you want to shoot with sniper precision in a case that is natural in the process of a rule of law is certainly meaningful and speaks for itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-226	For a two-minute comment, I give the opportunity to Congressman Tamás Harangozó.
u2018-07-03-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Bajkai! I assume you've seen the proposal because you're recording it. They're changing a word in this. One word. Therefore, if it is similar to the legislation in force, I do not need to draw my attention to it, because a word is being rewritten in the law, obviously similar to the legislation in force. With the exception of one word, everything else is the same as the legislation in force. The rector and the head of the research institute could not be brought back to judge under the current rules, and can be returned after this amendment, even if his mandate is not complete, but resigns or terminates his rector position in the process. According to the current text, he could only be appointed after his appointment has expired. That's what your schemes are all about. I will apologize to you in public throughout the country if someone here swears in a record that this bill is not about the appointment of András Patyi, and that András Patyi will not be brought back to judge in the next few months until the court is set up. I'm gonna apologize to everyone. Otherwise, I would ask the Members who have spoken now that if they do, and that is why this law has been prepared, then give them back their mandate, be kind, because their word will not be worth a lousy bastard in anyone's eyes. That's my point of view on the case. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2018-07-03-228	Thank you, Congressman. So now we're really going to get to the people who want the normal word. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2018-07-03-229	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be brief, though it may be a little longer than two minutes after all. I must respond to what has been said here. Now I'm curious whether András Patyi or not András Patyi. [[Defiance.]] I was intrigued by the debate, and indeed, if it turns out that the pro-government representatives are playing the cards again, it will not be fair. I would add that Pál Völner and Imre Vejkey may not even know that this is the case. I can imagine something going on, but you don't know. I'm not even gonna say you guys are in the party. Perhaps, as rapporteur, my fellow Member of Bajka should know by now. But I'm not even sure, so I'm looking at the experience of the last eight years. [[18.40]] However, what I would like to respond to is that, in practice, when Mr Secretary of State responded to my interpellation and tried to explain the problems of justice, anomalies, the treatment of the government, he used practically the same argument that Imre Vejkey is now using, and that is why I have to tell you where the reference to Montesquieu is wrong. Poor Montesquieu is spinning in his grave, I think, if he hears this, because this system has been designed, or at least it has been said, that the OBT, the National Judicial Council, is the control body, a superior body, who has to monitor the activities of the current OBH president, at the moment, Tünde Hando, so this is the basic situation. If a control body and an official or OBH president controlled by it, or anyone who is such a person, not only with regard to courts, but also in the context of other administrative relations, it is not a dispute that anyone who has to say that the subordinate body or person is not acting properly, then this was not a dispute, but an exercise of his control tasks. And if that doesn't have any consequences, and the superintendent can't move, let's say, the controlled one, then the government or even the Parliament has to put this situation in order. The other half: in a situation where you consciously create a legal environment in which the appointment of judges and court leaders can be significantly influenced, you allow loopholes in the direction that a current leader, at the moment, Tünde Handó can enforce his own will, his appointment through any judicial body, and then, when this legal environment is created, appoint the already mentioned Tünde Handó, who is a personal good friend of Viktor Orbán's family and his wife, and otherwise, József Szájer is the wife of Fidesz-founder and MEP, and after that, the problems that the opposition indicated before his personal identity, namely that the person of Tündo Tünde would have been made public, that he was going to hold this post, we indicated that after the legal regulation of the office itself gives me the opportunity to abuse, and, moreover, a person whose independence could be questioned only on the basis of his personal, family relations, and then, the controlling body would have been made aware of this position, which was already the Hungarian, although there is also a constitutional law, that it is a legal basis, that it is not legally binding, that, that there is a legal regulation, that the law, that the first, that, that, that the law is not binding, that the law, that the law, that, I'll tell you what you're waiting for: a few more years, and there should be no judge who dares to speak out against this practice, or all court leaders will be replaced. So, this is a false explanation that not only can't be accepted by the opposition this way, but I think it is no one who is objectively investigating the functioning of the Hungarian justice system, and this is incredibly regrettable. In addition, and I would like to conclude by saying this, we heard that the decisions of the Curia which, by the way, complied with the laws in everything, how the leaders of Fidesz or Viktor Orbán, personally, rated it the last time, after the election, that the Curia took away a mandate from Fidesz, this was said, only because it said that part of the submission of letter votes was indeed irregular. So part of the letter votes were sent irregularly, and by the way, the Curia only approved the previous decisions, and so it can be said that if the Curia was exercising politics while acting only in accordance with the law, it would have taken a mandate from Fidesz. If the Fidesz leaders or the Prime Minister... [[Dr. Pál Völner: It is not in the law.]] Mr. Secretary, I'm very interested in your opinion, and I'm going to listen to it, believe me. So, if such things can be said, I think the minimum is that, by the way, if there appear to be violations of law in the functioning of the justice and judicial system, then those laws must be amended or dealt with so that, say, Tünde Hando's activities can be investigated. I would add that I have not been able to list many times the decisions that have been made to say that he has not acted properly. Another question is how interesting it is in Hungary today, according to the rules in force, but again in 2011 the President of the Republic can propose, let us say, the dismissal of the President of the OBH, or the finding of his indignity to the office of the OBH President, which the Parliament must say, but the Parliament can't do in its own power, despite the fact that Parliament is the appointment of the National Assembly. And János Áder also, I recall that he was a Fidesz member and Fidesz-potenta, but if I refresh my memory, I also remember him as some Fidesz MEP. So the circle is closed, and as a result of this whole procedure and of what has happened, I must say to you that Montesquieu certainly did not mean that when he formulated his many-mentioned principles. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-07-03-230	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2018-07-03-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I believe my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm, and if he says that my fellow Member Vejkey can be believed, then I believe the voice of my fellow Member Vejkey, because our fellow Member Vejkey did not answer that question, so he did not say anything about whether he would propose an amendment to this law. Therefore, as there will probably be an amendment then, perhaps not a substantive amendment proposal will probably be submitted to this bill at the committee, which is why I must tell my fellow Member of Bajkai that we do not know what the subject of this bill is at the moment. After all, you've been developing a shady method of lawmaking over the past few years, which has once stopped the detailed debate between the walls of this House, but it's been brought down to committee level. Now you are using the method of submitting legislative proposals, opening this law with technical amendments, and then for this open law here, in the general debate, we could, in principle, argue whether the comma is in the right place, or whether the exchange of words is appropriate or inadequate, but what this bill will be about when we vote on it, we do not know at the moment, because you will submit substantive amendments, the content of which we do not know and we are not aware of at the moment. I think it's kind of sneaky, if that's the way it's gonna be, kind of sneaky and mean, that's a mockery of parliamentarism, in my opinion. The fact that you're assisting me with this, and unfortunately, I think it's your shame. But you can look down on us opposition representatives in this whole way, and you can feel free to say what you want, because we are the majority here, and we will tell you what will happen in this country. The only thing they forget is that when they look down on us like this, when they try to trick us like this and try to trick us, they cheat the voters who sent the opposition to the parliamentary benches, you look down on the voters who voted for the opposition in the last election. If you think this is the right method, then your soul is on it, but I think that at least if you are so superior, if you can do everything within the walls of this Parliament, because you have the right majority, then at least you would have the courage to submit the bill in such a way as to bring it to the general debate with its true content and with its true purpose, and at least to argue about it. [[18.50]] There are very few general debates where you are debating at all, commenting on the proposal and answering the questions raised by the opposition, and not only in the closing words, you will make a statement. But the fact that you don't even describe the real goal, but slylyly, you will be able to draft the final bill with Commission amendments and we will have to vote on it, in my opinion, that is outrageous. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-07-03-232	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey in two minutes.
u2018-07-03-233	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to answer my colleague György Szilágyi to reassure him, and I would also like to answer my colleague Andrea Varga-Damm. As far as I know, there are no further amendments to this bill. This bill specifically applies only to the clarification of termination. So I can continue to say that it has nothing to do with administrative justice or anything but specifically what the technical bill is about. And I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, that he himself explained how strong this division of power in Montesquieu is in Hungary. Therefore, the government cannot be accused of not interfering, since the government is not entitled to move the President of the OBH, but, as you said, my fellow Member, the President of the Republic, to make his motion. Once again, it is not the government who decides it, but we, the legislators, have jurisdiction. So the government is out of the loop in this respect. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Poor government!]] I would definitely like to say that I thank my better fellow Member, Gábor Staudt, who confirmed that the Hungarian Government respects the courts and respects the division of power. I would like to add that the criticism of the Curia does not fall within the circle in which its decision cannot be criticised by the government. Otherwise, the Constitutional Court has also given the Prime Minister the truth because it has found that the Curia's decision is against the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-03-234	Thank you. In two minutes, I give the floor to Staudt Gábor.
u2018-07-03-235	Thank you, Mr. President. The decisions of the Curia can, of course, be criticised, but I think the wording that the Curia has taken a mandate from Fidesz is stronger than that. My fellow Member, what I said before was wrong. I was just telling you that the system was designed that way in 2011... Justismord was committed in 2011 when these laws were drawn up by two thirds, but they did not even comply with the passages of these laws. Obviously, it is difficult to say that János Áder will intervene when János Áder was also a member of Fidesz, the husband of Tünde Handó is still a member of Fidesz and a Member of the European Parliament. The system is designed so that someone can always point fingers at each other, and the person they point at is always a fidesz or ex-fidesz potenta. So it works very nicely, but I think everyone but my hard-core Fidesz vote sees how things work. It is true that, in such a system, knowingly, in a system designed to eliminate justice and judicial independence, if several bodies say that a leader has abused his powers and that the appropriate sanctions are not being imposed, then the government, in this case the Fidesz-KDNP Group, should, as a government with two thirds of its number, make proposals to Parliament in order to eliminate the situation that has already taken place, the independence of the judiciary, and not to go on this path. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-07-03-236	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in a normal time frame.
u2018-07-03-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Especially because practically only colleagues sit on the opposite side, no matter how I look around, from Mátrai through Judith, Congressman Vejkey, Pál Volner And István Bajkai. So, this is an amendment to the law on the organisation of the court and the status of judges. I'd like to ask why the Minister of Justice isn't filing it. It's a serious law and a serious amendment. I have great respect for Congressman Bajkai so he doesn't speak from the front of the house. But such legislation is only submitted by the Ministry of Industry, who is most concerned with the area. So accept from us that doubt, mistrust itself, begins from why it is not submitted by the Minister of Justice. Plus, here's Pál Volner... [[Intercoms: Völner!]] Or Paul Völner, forgive me, Mr. Secretary. Next time, there'll be Volner. [[Sic! Defiance.]] After all, you are sitting here, yet the Minister of Justice has something to do with this issue, and in comparison with this, a motion from his representatives is submitting such a bill, which is somewhat late for six years. Our fellow Member, who submitted how right I was to say that this was automatic in the previous law, that he had not lost his judicial status, and it is good that we are making this amendment. What we don't understand is why not sooner. But if there is such a clear professional reason for this, then what is this bill really doing as a motion for individual representatives? I would like to hear this from the Secretary of State, although he does not have to answer. In addition to what my fellow Member has analysed in his speech a little longer, and which is bound to arise when we discuss a court organisation in any way, we discuss proposals and reports, and I say with a calm heart: in the court system, in the last hundred years, such destruction as Tünde Hando has done has never been done before. The morale, the unbridled abuse of right, power and authority that he has been doing for many years now, not only by courts and citizens, not only by the judicial system and opposition Members of Parliament, not only by disgruntled prosecuters or by people who may be brought to justice, but also by the judicial profession, I do not think we could imagine such terrible destruction. So there's the same atmosphere of fear, no one's talking to anyone. Until a month and a half ago, I was in the courtroom several times alone with judges, and they dared to speak, especially when I was a candidate for Parliament. Then they dared to tell me what was going on. That appointments are the result of different buddy relationships and have nothing to do with the profession. And the reason why these different applications are being destroyed is because it is not possible for a strong, a knowledgeable, a fair judge, to be in a given position, because he cannot be led by manual control. So I would just like to say to the pro-government Members and Secretary of State that you should not be surprised at the fact that when such a question, even if it is technical, comes into the House and, moreover, it comes in as a motion for individual representatives, we really have the guts to say that, once again, what is the purpose. That's how bad the last six and a half years, seven years of experience about what's been going on in the court system. And you have to understand that. I would like to add one more thought to my fellow Member, György Szilágyi, who just said that we can be looked down on, but they look down on our voters. Not just our voters. Because when you asked the voters to give you a two-thirds mandate, you kept suggesting to your own voters that if you can trust someone, you can trust you in every respect. [[19.00]] And when they take their oath, they say that the laws will be respected, that they will work according to their conscience, and that our conscience is clean and upright, and that if you at any time do not treat the law in a lawful and abusive way, then at least you do not deceive our voters, most of all your own voters, at the very least the news does not get to them, it may be, but we do know that. And I would ask you with great respect, especially with a third-two-thirds mandate, to do me the favor, because I would be happiest if I had to come into this House every day so that we would never doubt what would happen to any of your proposals, so what would happen again? I do not believe that you, whom I have known for decades, have gone to the same grade, went to the same school, taught us the same principles, we live fairly and honestly, that at least at that time you, who are not truly involved in corruption or any kind of illegal system, should achieve the ability to put the germ and spark of constant distrust to sleep. We would so much like to do that we can trust our colleagues, our decent, well-educated, educated colleagues as Members of Parliament, and I can say that when I leave here, we are really opponents, because we are on another side, one is the pro-government, the other is the opposition, but there is only one factor for which we are going together, hand in hand, and this is the welfare of the Hungarian people. And it is a very important element that at least people who make laws, who vote, who can judge whether it is good for people, trust and believe in each other. If we can achieve this, whether you have two thirds or not, we will support everything that is in the interest of the people. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-07-03-238	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] Since I do not see a candidate, I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai, who has indicated that he still wishes to speak to him... [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Pál Völner also came forward at the moment [[Dr. Pál Völner: Sorry.]] And since you have to give the floor to the author, I would like to give the floor first to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2018-07-03-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to clarify a few things. My colleague Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned that those who go to another organisation maintained their judicial status. No, for whom this part is about, those who have gone to lead an international organisation or elsewhere must resign, and, in fact, as the previous regulation has done, this will ensure a smooth return to them, since they should not be disadvantaged because they have in the meantime held a different position, and it is clear that they have previously been excellent professionals and have come to that place. And indeed, as I mentioned at the outset, this is a clarification to make the text clear in the law, as the practice has shown, so that anyone who returns can return, and not to argue what my fellow Member Bellozó raised about how, where appropriate, now should we understand what is expiry or termination, and there is a difference between them. If this is a problem for the MSZP, it's going to happen right now, and then it's basically going to turn out that termination is clearly regulated by these issues. Otherwise, judicial staff are equally subject to this passage, and if any person is appointed anywhere, the law will cease to apply not only after that but will continue to apply to all those to whom this may apply. So I think we need to decouple him from all these other ideas. [[Gergely Harvestó: Why hasn't it been written by name?]] Indeed, there have been other issues here, the OBT and the OBH debate. I would just like to make it clear here that the OBT practically has the power to contact the Parliament in case of debate or if it has personal objections. So it is not the President of the Republic, nor the Government, who has the authority, but, of course, the Parliament, who can decide on these matters if it comes here. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's why you canceled it!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-240	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And then, as rapporteur, I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai.
u2018-07-03-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In my previous comment, I tried to clarify that it was an amendment, an amendment to the legislation, and if I understood all the comments correctly, and if I appreciated and allowed myself to carry out a kind of evaluation activity, then I could say that, in fact, this type of amendment to the legislation has made the previous regulation better. The fact that, say, political commentaries are added on the part of the MSZP, or that they add facts that do not belong here, the political considerations are not new, but it does not affect our work here in the legislation to create laws, and the laws, if we have the opportunity, to make it better. All other aspects are so to say unnecessary, or any other aspect that goes beyond that is actually beyond the legislative work. That is why we remembered or why I remembered Montesquieu and Aristotle with a certain weight, and at that time we did not even talk about Plato, the concept of a good state, because indeed, in this debate, we also found out how important the question of powers is, how important the questions of competence are. So when we talk about legislation or about legislation, it's about legislation. And when the comments reveal, say, what kind of activity a judge is engaged in, or how a judge is appointed, then we are in fact out of our jurisdiction, we are out of our jurisdiction, and we are taking a stand on matters falling within the jurisdiction of others. In fact, I consider this to be a prohibited activity, and it follows from the principle of division of power that we, within the legislative framework, are conducting our debates, quite rightly, and I believe that no one denies that the debate in the legislative process is a necessary element of democracy, and is also a necessary element of the development of the law, for example, that our laws should improve and that we should contribute to the development of law by our own means. There is no question that in the executive power, which is separate from us, there are debates there, and it also improves government activity. And let's not overlook the fact that, by the way, in the judicial power or in the judicial power to quote the classics, there are debates there, and those debates must also be held. So what is to be done within the judiciary, such as the adequacy of integrity regulators, the appointment of individual judges, the efficiency of the judiciary itself, the correctness of the judgment, the interpretation of the law, the debate in the framework of justice. Here, when it comes to amending a law, and we attach elements that are not really our jurisdiction, we are, in fact, violating the principle of power-sharing. I therefore recommend to the attention of my fellow Members that I believe that it is a law-abiding attitude and a democratic principle that we should hold a debate in the circle that is indeed part of the legislative building and is linked to legislation. Unfortunately, this is not the first and only example that they are talking about something else in connection with a law, and it also means nothing to me, but I cannot spare the intention of criticism that there really is no subject. And if we go back to that question, although I do not want to mention it separately, our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned why such a proposal was not made by the Ministry of Justice, I can only say that I think we are following the most noble traditions then. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] when the representative enters this building with legislative or legislative intent and presents one of these. So I think it is a nice tradition, and it is not a condition at all for the Ministry of Justice to present such a bill. So I consider this to be an attitude of natural representatives, and I also consider it natural that, in relation to, say, any other comments that have been made here, one of the opposition representatives would take the trouble himself and, say, use a bill and perhaps put it in writing. This means a certain job, no doubt, a lot harder to do than to criticize, but it is undoubtedly a job. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It's happened a few times! It's even, Stephen! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And I would say to my fellow Member Gábor Staudt that he took an example from the world of labour law, and I would just like to say that judicial status and judicial appointments follow a stricter system, and that is why I am saying that he must be thinking that, for example, he must have thought that there is no obligation to justify the termination of employment for senior officials when it comes to companies. So you mentioned a lawyer's job, and you certainly can't sue a winner where you don't have to justify a senior officer, and that probably wouldn't be one of the winning lawsuits. [[19.10]] In summary, I would like to point out to everyone, to all my honourable Members, that this legislation is a work carried out in the area of our legislative activity, making legislation better and supplementing it, and I do not want us to rise above it or add anything else to it than the original intention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend the laws relating to individual elections until closure. Presentation submitted by representatives of Gulyás Gergely, Bajkai István, Zsigmond Barna Pál, Kocsis Máté and Németh Szilárd István T/714. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr István Bajkai, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2018-07-03-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In every rule of law, elections play a prominent role, as the people exercise their power through their elected representatives. The election is a celebration in all democracies, even if we had to live by the fact that the opposition, with the help of foreign advisors, often conducted it as a devastating war and wanted to degrade it into an unqualified campaign of discrediting. It is our job to ensure that voters have the fullest freedom of will during the elections. In our country, which started after the change of government in 2010, the transformation of public law, which, following the adoption of the Fundamental Law, led to changes in the rules on the exercise of certain fundamental rights, as well as the rules on the most important public bodies. In this context, a code of new electoral substantive law and then rules on electoral procedure were established. The direction of the electoral rules was fundamentally influenced by the reduction of the number of Parliaments, which was defined by the Fundamental Law in 199 instead of the previous 386. An extremely important national minimum has been established by the provisions of the Fundamental Law that the existence of permanent residence in Hungary is no longer a prerequisite for the exercise of suffrage, and this has allowed Hungarian citizens living in separated areas to take part in the elections in the motherland despite the hysterical protest of the left-wing opposition, which rejects the whole Hungarian minority from abroad. The left-wing opposition refused to join forces with Hungarians, so allow me to quote an important sentence of our Christian teaching: ablue peccata non tantum faciem; wash off your sins, not just your face. Creating the possibility of participating in the elections in the mother country, including it in the electoral system, was also expected to create new electoral legislation. The biggest change in our election system, while maintaining the mixed system, was the establishment of a simpler and more transparent two-channel system, a national list instead of a former three-channel individual area, a regional list, a national list. In addition, the electoral reform has provided an opportunity to introduce the experience of the elections of the last 20 years into the electoral system, by which both voters and law-abiders can meet a clear and practice-oriented regulatory system. Another fundamental change to the reform is that it has replaced several important issues that have caused a number of anomalies in previous elections. These serious problems have reached a level that has already threatened the democratic legality of the elections, which has been highlighted by several international organisations. Appropriate solutions have been found to these problems, such as the proportionalisation of electoral districts with severe differences or the elimination of maladministration in the recommendation system. These steps also point to the fact that the new electoral system has resulted in the resolution of decades of problems. The new citizenship law and the new electoral law have made a correction in the political system, which has made Hungarians from abroad part of the political community. The Fundamental Law does not require the right holders to have permanent residence in Hungary, thus opening the way for Hungarian citizens who do not live in Hungary. According to the preamble to the Act on the Election of Members of Parliament, the National Assembly guarantees that Hungarian citizens living outside our borders are part of the political community, but there is a significant difference that, while voters with a title in Hungary have two votes, Hungarians from abroad can vote with one vote, only on a party list, and thus become part of the political community. In more than 20 years since the change of regime, the parliamentary representation of nationalities in the territory of Hungary has not been achieved by any of the previous governments. After 2010, the second Orbán government also corrected this omission. The Fundamental Law lays down, I quote, that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and are the factors that create the state. We cultivate and protect the language and culture of Hungarian nationalities. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The substantive rules governing the representation of nationalities in Parliament are set out in the Act on the Election of Members of Parliament. The law binds both active and passive suffrage to inclusion in the register, the rules of procedure of which are laid down in the law on the new electoral procedure. As a further reform step, the central electoral bodies have been renewed. The National Election Committee shall have seven elected members and shall have a term of office of nine years. Parties with a parliamentary faction and nominating organisations may delegate additional members to the committee. The National Election Office has become the highest-level body in the hierarchy of electoral offices, responsible for organising and conducting the state tasks of the elections. The National Election Office acts as an autonomous administrative body in order to establish independence from government. The new procedural law places great emphasis on facilitating the exercise of the rights of people with disabilities. The disabled can use a barrier-free voting room and a booth. At least one of these will be established in each settlement and every constituency. The law helps the visually impaired with a Braille written notice and a ballot box. The new law also contains provisions on the status of an international observer. In the absence of this, the head of the National Election Office has laid down rules for the operation of international observers in action. The international observer shall be registered by the National Election Office and shall have the following main rights and obligations. You can monitor the entire course of the electoral procedure and be present in the work of the electoral bodies. You can look into the electoral committees' documents. It may address questions to the members of the electoral bodies and draw their attention to the anomalies they have experienced. However, the electoral procedure and the activities of the electoral bodies shall not be disturbed or affected, and shall carry out their activities impartially. With this detailed legislation, the clarity and transparency of elections is also ensured. In addition to the new legal institutions, it is also worth reviewing the long-standing problems on which the new law has provided effective answers. The institution of the recommendation coupon has ceased, recommendations can be collected on a recommendation form. It is also possible to express the political opinion of voters with multiple party preferences, as the voter can give not only one, but several recommendations in force. Recommendation on the recommendation sheet also increases the protection of voters' data against so-called knocking tags. Voters staying in Hungary away from their address but in Hungary may continue to vote in the settlement where they are staying on the day of the vote. However, this is not a certificate, which previously caused a number of abuses. Name of the new legal institution: transfer. In place of the certificate issued on paper during the transfer, the election office shall add the voter residing elsewhere on the day of the vote to the register of the electoral district concerned. During the transfer, it will be ensured that the transferors vote for individual ballots according to their address. In this way, the possibility of many abuses of voting tourism has been eliminated. [[19.20]] In every election preceding 2014 there was a problem with how voters in the electoral district could exercise their voting rights on the day of the vote. The new law therefore assists the ballot counters and the chief minutes, as they should be added to the register of the electoral district in which they are working on the day of the vote at their request. Although the foundations of the electoral redress system have not changed, some previous problems have been removed by the 2013 Act. The inefficiencies of sanctions applied by electoral committees and courts have caused many difficulties. The proposal therefore introduces the legal institution of the fine. If the election committee grants the objection, it may impose fines in addition to the current legal consequences in the cases provided for by law. A fine may be imposed, inter alia, if the candidate or nominating organisation is unable to account for or violate campaign rules with the recommendation sheets. There was no orderly situation before the creation of the new legislation if the electoral body did not perform its tasks. Due to the silence of electoral bodies, a new special procedure is therefore introduced, whereby the objection to silence can be submitted to the election committee at the higher level. If the National Election Committee fails to comply with its procedural duty within the time limit, the Curia shall, within three days of the date of receipt of the objection to that effect, determine the existence of an infringement and instruct the National Election Committee to proceed out of order. We can conclude that the law on the new electoral procedure has corrected many anomalies, fundamentally reformed the electoral procedure, which has laid down more democratic, simpler and more realistic rules for both electoral bodies and voters. After the entry into force, several votes have already been held in accordance with the new rules. Over the past four years, there has been enough experience to modify, where necessary, certain electoral laws and fine-tunings. Dr. András Patyi, President of the National Election Committee, summarized in his oral report, following the traditions of public law, the subjects where the Committee's experience suggests that a legislative amendment is necessary. Together with my fellow Member, the time has come for us to make the necessary changes to the bill before us, as well as to the electoral bodies, as we ourselves have experienced. In addition to the Act on Election Procedure, the necessary amendments to the 2013 LXXXVII on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament. It also affects the provisions of the law. In order to facilitate the bona fide and fair use and settlement of campaign funding, the proposal relating to the latter law requires that all candidates on the party list and all individual candidates on that party list are jointly and severally responsible for the reimbursement of the State campaign support for the party list. The proposal also provides that a party, a nominating organisation, which did not account for State campaign support under the law during the previous parliamentary elections, may not claim any further campaign support. XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure We want to amend the law in several places. The most visible problem for voters may have been standing in front of the electoral districts reserved for the transferors. It was not only an inconvenience for those who had waited for a long time to exercise their voting rights, but also for the whole country, because until the last person standing in line voted down, the state of the processed votes could not be made public throughout the country. The ruling parties have tried to remedy this major problem on several occasions, but the adoption of the solution has always been subject to other non-problem-related incoherent conditions by the opposition. The Act on Election Procedure 24. At last, the amendment of §2 of the Act allows the ballot counting committee of the electoral district appointed to vote on transfer to operate with a higher number than the general rule, in a way that facilitates the smoothness of voters' voting. The necessary number will be extended by adding additional members to the ballot counting committee from among the necessary number of alternates by the head of the local electoral office, if this is justified by the number of voters re-entering the ballot box or by the number of voters requiring a mobile ballot box. This problem is closely linked to the fact that, under the rules in force, if the voter is not in the area of the electoral district according to his address in Hungary on the day of the vote, he may request until 4 p.m. on the second day before the vote, that he be able to cast his vote in the settlement where he will be present on the day of the vote. A significant majority of voters leave the request for a transfer to the last day, so that local electoral bodies will find out at the last moments what number of transferors they will have to expect on election day. Prior to the immediate expiry of the deadline, a huge amount of applications require the employees of the electoral body to work late at night in many places. To address these problems, the proposal: from the current second day before the vote to the fourth day before the vote, the date of closure of the register will be changed, i.e. the deadline for submitting a request for transfer, which will create a much more predictable situation for electoral bodies. The requests for a central register had to be rejected by a large number of electoral bodies due to formal errors. In view of this, the amending proposal simplifies the formal requirements for applications. In this context, on the one hand, the proposal reduces to the minimum the scope of personal data to be provided in the case of voters submitting an application after electronic identification. It also simplifies registration and voting in the case of voters who do not have a Hungarian address, if only the personal ID or passport number can be used. All naturalised citizens have a personal identity and a simpler sequence of numbers than the naturalisation document or the citizenship certificate number. Hungarian citizens living abroad, who obtained or emigrated citizenship prior to simplified naturalisation, have typically registered and voted with passport numbers. The exclusive use of the ID and passport number also precludes a person from being included on the register several times, for example with a naturalization certificate number and a personal identification number. In order to ensure the cleanliness of the election campaign and the proper information of voters, the proposal requires that the press product publishing the political advertisement should also publish, for each political advertisement, the order of which it publishes the advertisement. The proposal states, based on the practice of the Constitutional Court, that there is no need to include an impression in political advertising if the content of the political advertisement clearly reveals the identity of the candidate or nominating organisation promoted by political advertising. In order to prevent, at least to reduce, the recent irregularities experienced by certain opposition parties, the proposal provides that, in the event that a press product intends to make a political advertisement, it shall, within five working days of the date on which the election was set, forward to the State Audit Office a list of its advertising services, which it shall register and publish on its website. The same price list of the press product is published on its website. Political advertising may be made only for consideration determined by the registered price list. Once again, I would like to emphasise that these provisions serve the cleanliness of the election campaign, the transparency of campaign spending. The election office only informed the electoral committee competent to register the candidate, but not the candidate, of the decision to examine the recommendations collected by the candidate and submitted for verification under the current rules. This amendment, in order to remedy the deficiency, provides an opportunity for the candidate to be informed of the outcome of the verification of the recommendations if he so requests. The parliamentary election in 2018 was an important issue in view of the expected and effective withdrawal of candidates from opposition parties in favour of each other, which is the single deadline by which the candidate can legally waive his candidacy. This open question is also dealt with in the bill before us when it is stated that the candidate will resign if he resigns in writing at the earliest starting foreign representation until the starting day of the vote in accordance with the law. [[19.30]] In relation to the mandate of the members of the electoral committees, the parliamentary elections of 2018 are not yet problematic, but at the municipal elections, it may cause a situation that threatens the functioning of the elections, that the current rules do not distinguish between the types of elections and the committees that are entitled to delegation. At the moment, an independent candidate or candidate for mayor may delegate to the local electoral committee in addition to the local election committee, which may extend the committee to the extent that it may become inoperable. This amendment addresses this problem by regulating the rules of delegation by type of election. Thus, the amendment proposal contains specific provisions for parliamentary elections, for the election of members of the European Parliament, and for the election of local government representatives and mayors. According to the rules in force, regional electoral committees do not participate in the electoral procedure of Members of Parliament, which led the National Election Committee as a central electoral body to operate with a significant additional burden, since the large number of decisions imposing fines on the NVB due to the registration of individual candidates and the timely return of referrals were subject to a direct appeal to the NVB. This bill aims to reduce this burden by bringing regional electoral committees into parliamentary electoral proceedings as a primary forum for redress in the cases mentioned above. The change is not a legal certainty problem, since both procedures are formalised, they have no discretion when taking decisions, and therefore the decision on cases is subject to a simpler assessment. The requests for judicial review against decisions of the territorial electoral committee in the second instance would be examined by the judgment panels under the general rule of appeal. The regulation of posters posted during the election campaign currently does not provide clear, well-concreted provisions for the legislator. In view of the fact that a substantive restriction is limited solely to taxatically marked objects on the fence and on the wall of the building, there is often a conflict between the right to post a poster as a right to freedom of expression and the right to private property. The bill that we are going to discuss also aims to provide a reassuring solution to this issue by removing the taxative list from the law and not listing the items on which the poster can be posted. 11/2014 on the interpretation of the rules of the relative territorial ban. In accordance with the NVB Guidelines No.3 the provisions on campaign bans have been added to the proposal. It is important to point out that, before the voting day, the presence of posters legally placed outside the polling station and the polling station building on the day of election does not constitute a campaign infringement. Each election raises the problem of perceived or real organised transport of voters. The law in force also clearly states that a public invitation to transport to the polling station shall not be published, that the carriage of passengers by bus to the polling station shall not be carried out. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Microbus. Z. Kárpát Dániel: It is not a bus.]] However, this provision, on its own, is currently an opportunity to circumvent regulation and, therefore, to add a new paragraph to the proposal ensures that the ban cannot be avoided. The new paragraph defines a public invitation to transport to a polling station and a call for transport to a polling station as follows. Literally, I quote. The publication of a public invitation to transport to a polling station shall constitute an invitation, a public announcement or a poster calling for the organisation of transport to a polling station, promoting or calling for the use of a means of transport to a polling station. An invitation to transport to a polling station is the organisation of transport to a polling station and the production of a means of organising transport to a polling station. With these precise definitions, it is hoped that the possibility of circumventing the ban will cease. As a result of the shock caused by the results of the parliamentary elections in 2018, several opposition parties who got into the legislation also considered the possibility of refusing to represent their electorate before the Parliament's inaugural meeting. All we need to think about is the amok flight of Ákos Hadházy. [[Defiance.]] The form in which a Member may do so was not defined in the legislation. To remedy this, the proposal states that, after the day of the vote, the elected Member may resign by written declaration to the National Election Committee, pending the confirmation of the mandate by the Parliament. There is a considerable difficulty for persons with limited mobility to send two applications and, in addition, to the electoral body in good time if they wish to vote away from their place of residence, with a transfer. It has often been the case that he has submitted his request for a switch-over to the ballot box when his request for a transfer has not yet been examined or has not been submitted to the electoral body. The proposal before us, in view of the fact that the voter's right to vote, which is limited in his or her movements, should be exercised as easily as possible, requires that in such cases the voter be transferred to the register of the electorate appointed and that he or she should be provided with a mobile ballot box. The enforcement of the electoral will was hindered by the fact that a large number of letter votes were declared invalid in the 2014 and 2018 parliamentary elections because of the incorrect completion of the identification declaration. The need to only provide the data strictly necessary for identification in order to enforce the electoral will has been stated. We propose that identification of the person entitled to the election should not be required to give his mother's name in the future, as the person can be clearly identified without providing this information. Most of the errors were caused by this type of data, for many did not include their mother's maiden name on the statement. In addition, the proposal does not consider the absence of a birth name or its incorrect indication to be the grounds for invalidity of the identification declaration if the name of the voter and the name of the voter are the same. In this context, it is also worth noting the fact that more than 4,000 letter votes were wrongly found invalid on the grounds that they were mailed in an envelope with their own address and not prefabricated, or that the envelope was damaged. In the electoral procedural law, there is no mention of the expected form or appearance of envelopes; the decision-maker gave the law virtually new content, which the legislator did not state, and basically he added to the law on electoral proceedings. In the future, therefore, in order to ensure that the electoral will can be enforced, the proposal states specifically: "The sealed inner envelope and the completed identification declaration shall be sealed by the voter (a) in the outer envelope or (b) in any other envelope addressed to the address of the National Election Office or any foreign representation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, Knowing the bill, you can see that we have put a comprehensive professional proposal on the table, based on the guidelines for the application of the law, covering the whole procedural law. Accordingly, I would ask you to support this bill with your professional proposals, constructive comments and votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-244	Thank you, Congressman, for presenting a detailed explanation. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, on behalf of the Fidesz Group. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Watch out, for you are reading the same thing as before!]]
u2018-07-03-245	Mr President, Dear House, In the rule of law, a democratic choice is of paramount importance, in which the right-to-election holders are convinced to decide who to be who to represent their interests. [[19.40]] Suffrage is, on the one hand, a fundamental political right to participate in power, and, on the other hand, suffrage is the sum of the laws which determine the way in which public representation bodies are set up. In a broader sense, it is a collection of legislation which sets out the substantive and procedural rules for the election of members of public representation bodies, and therefore the regulation of suffrage is one of the most important issues in the life of a democratic state. After the change of regime in Hungary, the substantive and procedural framework for the general, equal, direct and secret voting was established. The rules of substantive law include the rules on the right to vote, i.e. who and under what conditions may participate in the election of members of the public representation bodies. The rules of procedure shall include the provisions on the selection of candidates, the order in which the election takes place, the distribution of mandates, the establishment and functioning of intermediate bodies, and the rules on the order of remedies relating to the election. In Hungary, a mixed electoral system has been established for the election of Members of Parliament, which includes certain elements of the majority electoral system and of the proportionate electoral system. After 2010, it was necessary to review the electoral legislation, as problems have emerged that have endangered the legality of the electoral system. We can think of the disproportionateness of constituencies due to different numbers of voters or the dangers of abuse due to referral coupons. There was no dispute between the parties that the Parliament was too large for the size of the country. These and many other major problems were addressed by the Fundamental Law, the Act on the Election of Members of Parliament adopted in 2011 and the Act on Election Procedure voted in 2013. Parliament's number as a result of the new provisions 368 Instead of a representative, he was reduced to 199, of which 106 were elected by individual mandate, and 93 from a national list. The system of knocking tags for abuse has also been terminated, and instead you can collect the supporting signatures for candidacy on the recommendation forms. It is essential that the new regulation has corrected the serious differences between the constituencys and the districts have finally been established in a proportionate manner. [[Continued noise in opposition benches.]] From the point of view of national cohesion, it is of particular importance that Hungarians across the border were given the opportunity to participate in the elections in the motherland. I would also like to stress the important step that, from the 2014 elections, voters included in the national minority register have the opportunity to vote on the minority list, which makes the German national minority representative now a member of the National Assembly, so that he can represent the interests of German nationality at the level of the legislation. Dear Parliament, After more than four years, the time has come for the revision of the electoral procedural law and for the necessary amendments to be made after deduction of the consequences. That is exactly what the bill before us meets. In view of the proposals, it is noticeable that, in several cases, the proposals and guidelines of the National Election Committee are transposed, so it can be concluded that this is not a self-serving amendment, but a professional concept based on professional grounds, which takes into account the enforcement marks. With the exception of one legislation, the changes concern the electoral procedure law. The other law to be amended with the exception is the 2013 LXXXVII on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament. Law. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that, if a party fails to fulfil its obligation to repay in connection with campaign support within the deadline and cannot be recovered from it, the party's senior officials and list and the candidates for individual constituencies are jointly and severally responsible for the repayment of the aid. This proposal aims to ensure the sound and fair use and accounting of campaign funding. One of the most important objectives of creating electoral laws is to ensure that the electoral will is expressed as fully as possible. This was significantly hampered by the parliamentary elections in 2018, the annulment of thousands of votes across the border in the context of the response envelopes. The bill before us aims to exclude future misinterpretation by clarifying the validity of unofficial or re-opening reply envelopes. On 8 April, we were only able to learn about the partial results of the elections and some of the results that were quickly processed. The reason for this was that the citizens who voted for the transfer were waiting for a single electoral district per constituency, and these electoral districts operated with an insufficient number of ballot counters, so there were still polling stations after 19:00, where voters waited in full queues. There have been several attempts on the part of the ruling parties to eliminate the anomaly, but in any case, opposition parties have bound the inclusion of the solution into the law to some unacceptable additional condition. So the time has come to find a reassuring solution on this issue as well. According to the proposal, the head of the local electoral office shall add additional members to the necessary number of alternates if the number of voters transferring or the number of voters requiring a mobile ballot box so justifies. In our view, this change will be able to avoid long waiting in the future in front of the polling stations. The intention to close the register is directly linked to the proposal made earlier, not on the second day before the elections, but on the fourth day before that. It is important to accept this change, linked to the previous point, because the head of the local electoral office will use it to see the final number of candidates in time, so that he can assess in the days prior to the election how many additional ballot counters will be needed in the respective electoral district. The National Election Committee worked with considerable pressure at the parliamentary elections, because regional electoral committees do not participate in the parliamentary elections procedure. According to the current rules, a large number of decisions imposing fines for the registration of an individual candidate and for the return of a recommendation form within the deadline were subject to a direct appeal to the NVB. The bill before us aims to reduce this burden by referring the above-mentioned task to the territorial electoral committee in the parliamentary election procedure as the primary forum for redress. Ladies and gentlemen, From what has been said, it can be concluded that a necessary and professional proposal has been drawn up, in which the comments and guidelines put forward by the legislator have been added in several places. I would ask you to support this proposal in order to ensure the cleanliness of the election, the promotion of the law enforcement work and the simpler exercise of the right of voters. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-03-246	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[19.50]]
u2018-07-03-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal before us does indeed address some of the problems that exist. So I have to say, you had to touch the electoral procedure bill. But, on the one hand, there were some issues left out, which were also to be resolved, which was proven not only by the opposition, but also by life, that they should also be resolved. There are also a few other solutions, which can be corrected if the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP are required. Of course, I do not want to repeat fully the positive amendments that have been made. What I would like to draw attention to, however, is the unblessed state that Parliament is trying to correct, that practically hours after the election ended, let alone the result could not be announced, although it was annoying, in itself, that everyone would have waited to get to know it in advance, or even partially, where the information comes from, what the election has led to, but apart from that, it is annoying to sit in front of the TV and wait until dawn to see anything. But what's even more annoying is that our fellow countrymen had to wait hours on the outside to get in and cast their votes in any way. This alone is a circumstance that was completely scandalous. I would add that the solution to this would not necessarily have been that, which is the solution on election night, that they would not allow the preliminary results to be published or the data received. Anyone who's already in that line probably had an idea of who he wanted to vote for, so the fact that there was such a tumult doesn't necessarily justify that the results shouldn't come in. But we hope that this will be fully resolved in the future, and that from now on the conditions will be eliminated, not only after 7:00 a.m. many voters would have to stand in line, but also during the day in the polling districts where the re-registered voters were able to cast their votes, there were amazing long lines. It's obviously annoying even if someone has to line up for three or four hours so they can cast their votes before 7:00. This is certainly a point that has clearly relished society as a whole, even, as I said, those who have not suffered it. My fellow Member, István Bajkai, has referred to one or two points that I would like to point out that the transport of voters will be determined what constitutes an invitation or the clarification of this regulation will be included in the law. But we point out that it is still possible to carry a microbus, a vehicle of nine, to help the voters to vote. I consider this to be a reprieve in itself. This was introduced by the law not too long ago, when the new law was passed by the Parliament with two thirds of the Fidesz-KDNP. This can be annoying even for passenger cars and the rule of law, and that the minibus belongs to this category; at most they will turn more. But we could also see that there were room for more. The minibus may have been nine-man, but it could fit more than nine voters, even in a cross-border way. We've heard a lot about that. It should also have been corrected in itself by abolishing the entire provision. If it were up to us, we would also have introduced stricter provisions on how information can leak out about the voters who participated or have not yet participated, as it is a practice that either the party delegates or paid delegates in municipal colours, but who are known to be party-bound, will be able to get out the information about who was not voting among the voters, and in particular in rural areas, they can be sought out and encouraged to vote. I would add that the law has only so many provisions, because it is possible to campaign on election day, so the encouragement to go out and vote is not necessarily a violation of the new rules in itself. Thus, of course, it is easy to say that a party activist, when, based on the information obtained against the rules, which voters did not depart, can send them in a targeted way. It's very difficult to control, to track, the chance of being caught is almost zero. And we are well aware since the publication of the Cubatov lists, that Fidesz-KDNP has registered not only its own voters but also the voters of the opposite side on this basis, but, of course, it is enough to mobilize its own voters for a result that could call into question the purity of the election. I would also like to point out that, if we had already touched the letter votes, of course, it is very right to clarify in which envelope and not only to put these votes in the form envelope, but it would have been good to reopen the debate that had just stopped before the Constitutional Court, even in a social or seven-party consultation. I would not just go along with the fact that, on the basis of the composition of the Constitutional Court, it is a good thing that something is canceled on the one hand or just tilted on the other, or that the Constitutional Court does not cancel it. So the regulation, which, we believe, is discriminatory for those who emigrated from Hungary, or, let us say, working abroad with the intention of returning for years, but having kept their address in Hungary, they are not entitled to cast their votes in a letter, but they have to go to one of the foreign representations. In many cases, this is indeed a trouble, for they may have to go hundreds of miles or thousands of miles to wait in line for hours to come. And perhaps, indeed, because this is what we have seen as very difficult to get in. It also shows how many voters have been forced to leave the country, and believe that many have not left because of an adventure, but because of economic compulsion. It's very difficult for them to cast their votes. And there's no reason why they should be able to use the vote in a letter, at least there's no legal reason. The political reason is that they, as it turns out, did not vote for Fidesz-KDNP. They also voted with their feet first when they went out, and then they wanted to express this in a large number of votes cast at the parliamentary elections. It was very difficult for them to do so. If it is necessary to indicate in time that someone wants to exercise this right, then the single mandate constituency voting list could also be sent out to him, on which they can draw the appropriate X's and then send their votes to the post office. This is obviously not the purpose of the current course, but it is still due to Hungarian citizens who, let's say, work in London to keep their address as they live in Transylvania. Or even in England, if the Hungarian citizen from Cluj-Napoca and Szombathely or other Hungarian settlements is working but has a home address, then it is easier for one to live with this vote and for the other it is unreally difficult. Not to mention, the possibility of introducing an e-vote institution should also be examined. This works in a lot of countries. Estonia, Switzerland may all be examples that may be justified in any case. It cannot be said that Switzerland or Estonia are places where opportunities have not been explored and democracy is not working. In the case of Switzerland, it is extremely difficult to argue that we are not talking about a mature system. [[20.00]] Then one or two points that seem small, but I still have to mention from the proposal, which I also tabled and tabled amendments to. In the case of the export of the mobile ballot box, I understand in itself that it will be brought forward a little bit, so that the demands will not be disrupted, and that can be understood. But that they only write that an extra 10 ballots can be taken out, as many voters have asked, is not enough in itself. 'Cause if we don't add a figure for how many people claimed it, then they might take 11 out to a voter. That's why we're sensing that this is a bit of a disproportionate solution. I propose that this should not be more than twice the number of people asking for it and taking it out, since it is only possible to improve one evil. So even if every voter fails to fill out the ballot, it should be enough to double the ballots. Then I do not understand that if we are talking about equal opportunities, we are talking in the media about a balanced presentation of candidates, then in the case of the various periodicals, which may be municipal papers, why they only regulate the requirement of equal opportunities for two consecutive violations. This will mean that it can be broken in one card number, in the next a little more balanced information, and then in the next sheet number it can also be broken. We have seen that Fidesz-KDNP now has the most mayors and representatives of the local government, but unfortunately, it was still typical of the Socialist Government or the Socialist Party in some way that there was a strong distortion of the chances of local government publications. I would add that during the Fidesz-KDNP, this has been further developed at the local level, as we have experience. In practice, candidates may get a little introduction, but on each page they grin in three places one way or another, say, the Fidesz candidate; not as a candidate, but as a Member of Parliament who gives something to the mayor, photographing a local or national potentate, or appearing at other events. Or if, let's say, a mayor runs for Congress and hasn't been a congressman before, then as mayor, as deputy mayor, he can be run in an amazing way. This also means inequality of opportunity, and this should also be regulated in some way. But the two consecutive cards are already an interesting regulation in themselves. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Then also an actual pass to the end: against the decision of the National Election Committee to establish a national list result, if someone wants to submit a review, and this happens quite often, it will be one whole day. I think that, as lawyers, we all realize that it is a very limited deadline, especially if someone wants to submit it with substantial evidence, even the three days are quite short. But, let's say, in terms of the electoral procedure and the outcome of the election as soon as possible, three more days can be understood. But a day is actually prepared for lawyers, if all the evidence is available, it's almost impossible. Or at least it's impossible in such a way that he won't be able, let's say, to dismiss it with ease or formal objections. So, regardless of the fact that many good proposals have been included in this bill before us, but at least the same, and those that have been included, need to be amended on a number of points. I trust it will be some kind of reception skills. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2018-07-03-248	Good evening. Welcome to this great evening. KDNP lead speaker, Congressman Vejkey. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-249	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/714 on the amendment of certain electoral laws It is not surprising that the submission of the legislative proposal No.3 is not surprising, as the opposition siren voices in the press have already said before the general debate, but on the contrary, on the basis of practical experience, further fine-tuning was justified, which was clearly proposed by András Patyi, President of the National Election Committee, as well as Ilona Pálffy, Head of the National Election Office at the Parliament's inaugural meeting in 2018. The fact of the amendments is therefore not surprising, but rather necessary. Ladies and Gentlemen, Thus, it is not surprising that the 2013 LXXXVII on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament. Nor is the need to amend a law, which is manifested in this bill. In order to facilitate the bona fide, fair use and settlement of campaign funding, the bill provides that all candidates on the party list and all individual candidates on that party list are jointly and severally responsible for the reimbursement of the State campaign support for the party list. The proposal also provides that the party or nominating organisation, which did not qualify for State campaign support under the law during the previous parliamentary elections, may not claim any further campaign support. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of my introduction, the XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure is also not surprising. Neither is the amendment of the law. The primary function of this amendment is to address the difficulties encountered in the conduct of elections, to facilitate the exercise of the rights of voters and to make the organisation of voting more predictable. More important changes are the following: simplifying the submission of requests for registration, making progress of the closing date of the register, making a shareholder contribution to collecting recommendations for private areas open to public traffic, clarifying the validity of recommendations on the basis of the NVB Guidelines, ensuring the protection of ownership for non-state or municipal entities, clarifying the provisions on voting day campaign bans on the basis of the NVB Guidelines, simplifying the invitation to or the ban on the organisation of transport to polling stations, publishing political advertising for all political advertisements will also be required to publish the publication of the advertisement for whom the order is made, remedying constitutional failure to notify the Commission decision of second instance and the decisions taken in the course of judicial review, clarifying the legal regulation as regards the validity of unofficial envelopes or envelopes closed after opening, simplifying the content of the identification declaration, and clarifying the provisions concerning the determination of the election result. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what was said before me in the exposé by my fellow Member István Bajkai and what he said in the speech of our fellow Member László Salacz, the lead speaker of Fidesz. I therefore wish to conclude by saying that the parliamentary faction of the KDNP supports T/714. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[20.10]]
u2018-07-03-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zsolt Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP is next. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of Jobbik has just mentioned many details, which would be important if the initiators had brought real questions concerning the electoral process and campaign funding primarily to the Hungarian Parliament. Like the Bethlen Gábor Fund, I will mention those that are not included in this proposal, and therefore you can do nothing but withdraw your initiative and withdraw it for procedural reasons, because you are a pro-party, and you have already made an apology as Fidesz-KDNP one-party proposal to the Parliament without any substantive discussions. Neither other parties, civil society organisations nor electoral experts have been consulted on these otherwise important issues; they have not taken into account the recommendations and recommendations of international forums concerning a fair procedure, a fair electoral procedure. So that's the procedural part. The shortcomings in content are much more important, and I would immediately mention the question of the vote on letters, the extension of which would be essential for the nearly one million of our countrymen who live around the world and cannot live with this eased vote, in a completely discriminatory and unacceptable way. It has been mentioned here earlier that it was difficult for the Constitutional Court to conclude that double citizens who do not have a domestic address can live with this institution and those who have a domestic address, but who do not reside abroad in a lifestyle. The political will is obvious: as few of the citizens who have already expressed their views on the government by leaving Hungary and living abroad as a way of life, but as many people as possible should vote, even dead souls should vote through a letter vote through dual citizenship. Remember, registration, which becomes automatic and does not need to be renewed, raises the strong doubt that there will be people who are no longer alive. Therefore, if the institution of voting letters is not corrected and added, it is not a problem of dual citizenship, as it is a good legal institution, even a vote is acceptable. It is not acceptable in the form in which you have entered it into law, and as you are now trying to fabricate it so that, if possible, all letter votes are valid: let those which come in damaged envelopes, which come in doubt, and which, if any, I say come from dead souls. The other very important issue is the relationship between fake parties. You are now attempting to operate with the institution of joint and several liability, but this would be a much simpler solution: the elimination of the plural recommendation, which has led to multiple criminal proceedings, has led to a series of abuses. During the last election, we saw what copies, what suspicious coincidences were, for example, in the individual constituency in Zugló, where it was dangerously similar to another individual candidate in the list required for the recommendation of the representative of Fidesz. These could lead to a series of abuses that could only be eliminated by the abolition of the institution of the plural recommendation. This would be a blow to the fake parties, and not to import joint and several responsibilities, because there can always be people without wealth in a fake party, so it may not lead to anything in this sense. And the fact that you can't get support for a party that hasn't been accounted for before; well, then there will be new parties, there will be no assets, and there will be abuses again. The institution of the plural recommendation should be terminated, so it makes sense to negotiate these proposals. What's going on here is a bullshit. The third point that should be included in these proposals is the ban on campaigning and advertising of public and municipal bodies in the parliamentary campaign. It is unacceptable for public and municipal bodies and companies to advertise either as paid advertising or as social advertisements, in quotes for social purposes, obviously as social advertising with the right or the right content for the government. They have no place in a fair parliamentary or municipal campaign, the prohibition of these would be essential. If that's what's going on, it makes sense to talk about details. As long as these are not included in the proposal, there is, in fact, a misconception, a smokescreen, and it is therefore totally unacceptable that we are debating these issues in such a way. There is nothing more than the conversion of letter votes into a voting factory so that the Fidesz-KDNP, I repeat, can remain in power with the votes of dead souls. We ask you, with great respect, to withdraw this proposal, to include the extension of the letter vote, as suggested by other parties, the Socialist Party repeatedly, to end the plural recommendation, to ban the fake parties from the Hungarian electoral system, and to prohibit campaigning by any means, directly or indirectly, to state and municipal bodies. If these are the subject of the debate, there is a place for further reflection on details in the Hungarian Parliament, but as long as they are not, there is, in fact, misunderstandings, fogging and fishing in confusion. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-07-03-252	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, Democratic Coalition!
u2018-07-03-253	Mr President, Dear House, I am forced to start by having three very similar legislative proposals before us, the first of which will be followed by the Assembly Act and then the Privacy Act. These three legislative proposals are very similar on one thing: it is not about the common good, it is about protecting citizens' rights, it is about what the fears of Fidesz are. You are afraid of free press, fear of free assembly, fear of freedom of expression, and, as this bill proves, you are afraid of free elections. The electoral law has only one purpose: to make campaigning more difficult for opposition parties. Fidesz is now avenged by the fact that the electoral law, which you also wrote unilaterally, still has legal guarantees that sometimes the electoral bodies, especially the Curia, dare to judge you on one or another. It is possible to follow how you led Fidesz through negative court decisions on this bill, how you extract the guarantees on which these decisions were based. This law is nothing more than a law of mouth gag, a law designed to make it even less possible for the opposition to compete in fair competition in elections. By doing so, you are violating not only the rules of democracy, but also the obligations of Hungary, including the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights, which states that the expression of the opinion of the people, free elections, must be ensured. The opinion of the people is what you do not want to hear in the elections. Mr Bajkai also shared with us the success of the electoral law before reading the explanatory statement. I have to tell you, there's not much to brag about. On the basis of this electoral law, two parliamentary elections have been held so far, after both the OSCE electoral observers have come up with a long list of errors showing how the principle of fair elections has been violated. There are, of course, a lot of rules that really should be dealt with in relation to the electoral law. This is the drawing of the constituencies that sometimes turn in a comic way in order to put Fidesz in a better position. This is the perverted institution of winning compensation. Such is the system which essentially deprives or at least significantly restricts the voting rights of our fellow countrymen who work or live abroad. Such is the rule, which, at the same time, regulates the right to vote, the rules for the vote on letters, and gives rise to a number of abuses in relation to their votes. So there is something here that should be arranged, but there is no attempt to do that. Their goal is only to make campaigning even more difficult for the opposition, and to cement themselves even more. Let me give you a few examples of this, and I would also like to follow the Member's self-limitation, not repeat everything that Mr Zsolt Molnár has already said. Let me highlight a few points. One of these is that it is clearly intended that the monopoly that you have already acquired with regard to billboards should now be mercilessly enforced by making it virtually impossible to place advertising on other platforms, since no one can think that either the municipalities in your hands or the energy companies in your hands, let us say, will contribute to the ads of opposition parties on electricity poles, for example. [[20.20]] These will be purchased through your companies, where you've been well-buyed, of course, not on equal terms. It is also written in this law that the cross-border vote, the letter vote, is valid even if it is not in a regular envelope, if it cannot be verified in any way that it has opened these envelopes after filling in, it has rewritten the letter vote in some way. There is no way to verify that these votes are credible, but since they are a decisive majority of Fidesz votes, they are still good for you. In addition, they are also changing the regulation of registration of cross-border letter voters, which is still very loose and full of security holes, to make abuse even easier. With some personal data, it is now possible to produce the dead souls, the fictitious Fidesz voters we will never meet, only when their letter vote arrives nicely evenly, with one hand filled with hundreds. Although not included in this law, it is also worth mentioning that the assembly law also limits the holding of electoral meetings and demonstrations related to elections. In principle, the rules on fake parties would even be eligible. The only problem is that we can see them correctly, they have been interpreted in a very selective way. They do not act in cases of obvious fraud, if it is in their interest, and, of course, they act against others if it is in their interest. But the solution would be simple, as Mr Zsolt Molnár mentioned, just as everyone can vote for only one party and one candidate, so we must bring back the solution that everyone can only offer a candidate in a credible way, and there will be no such problem immediately, there will be no fake parties. Finally, let me point out that this proposal is also completely unacceptable because of the way it is submitted, since it was brought here in the ordinary legislative process in seconds, the only difference is that the otherwise not particularly selective Ministry of Justice did not dare to take it and take it into its name, and was therefore tabled as an amendment by its representatives. But if I were to share with my fellow Members his optimism about the credibility of Mr Vejkey's opinion and think that the aim is indeed to correct at least the most obvious errors in this terrible bad electoral system, then my question would be why, then, even the pro-active Members did not call a multi-party consultation, why did they not try to make a proposal by consensus. But I will not ask, of course, because it is clear that this is not the purpose of the proposal, the sole purpose of this proposal is to ensure that Fidesz guarantees by as many legal means as possible, to support its own election victory. This proposal cannot be improved, it cannot be put into an acceptable state and we will therefore not support it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-07-03-254	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP is now coming. Here.
u2018-07-03-255	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Joining my fellow opposition Members, I will also be fundamentally critical. Maybe I'll be a little bit tougher than the ones I've been talking to. However, as it is very important, we are discussing today's most important law and the most important bill, and we are, of course, preparing to submit proposals for amendments. It's a very important law. So, even though we do not believe that we can bring this law into an acceptable state either by means of the amendments, we have nevertheless done so that we have tabled amendments on the most important issues, in case some of them can be accepted by the pro-government majority. I can agree with the rapporteur, Mr Bajkay, on a number of points, such as the importance of elections and the importance of ensuring that voters are free to express their wishes. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] I can also agree on this and that the electoral system is one of the most important issues of public law, but unfortunately, we differ in our opinions. It was said in the introduction that Fidesz started reviewing and simplifying the electoral system in 2010 and 11th. We see this in such a way that they have begun to shape the electoral system in such a way that this is in all respects in their power interests. And indeed, as has been said by many of my opposition fellow Members, this is a one-party electoral law, so here national minimums can only be discussed in a few cases. Obviously, overall, this electoral system cannot be regarded as a national minimum. Therefore, it is no wonder that not so long ago opposition parties were able to put a proposal on the table in agreement, which, regardless of the existing ideological differences, expresses that there would be an amendment to the electoral law, which, we can say, could appear as a national minimum. This would be necessary on such an extremely important issue, but obviously we do not have any illusions as to whether the government shows openness in this respect. With regard to the current situation, I can make an assessment of the situation that in 2011 the new electoral districts were set up with virtually spatial information systems on the basis of power-technical considerations, so they were manipulated. In fact, the exercise of suffrage has been limited by administrative means since then, and the fair conduct of the election campaign lacks adequate guarantees. Now that this bill has been tabled, I have to say that there are really forward-looking elements, so there are some proposals, some points in the proposal that offer even working solutions to real problems, but overall our opinion is that the electoral system will be even more distorted. So if the bill is thus adopted unchanged by the pro-government majority, it will take you even further from being called a democratic procedure. A little more detail on the proposal, and I do not wish to be stingy either in my comments to mention what I agree with. For example, here is the proposal which, in a way, refers to the suppression of the operation of the fake parties. In order for the list candidates to be responsible for the reimbursement of campaign support, we consider it an important proposal and we consider it acceptable, noting that the creation of fake parties and the glamour of fake parties are essentially due to Fidesz. Such a proposal, which, say, may be a step in the right direction, is in itself little, so it would be expected of Fidesz and the government to submit a proposal that clearly excludes the possibility of fake parties operating, that these actors should be even interested in launching such fake parties in the election. In itself, it may also be a good proposal that parties, organisations who have not been able to properly account for campaign subsidies, should not be entitled to use campaign support in the next election. At the same time, we are about to have the suspicion or concern that the organisation that is entitled to control the use of party support will, in fact, unbiasedly assess the work of the various organisations. There is a proposal in this bill that the electoral committee in the constituency can only be nominated by an organisation which has started an individual candidate in the constituency concerned. We consider this to be an unjustified restriction, and we cannot accept that. Here, several opposition fellow Members have indicated that a system for registering voters living abroad, i.e. with no address in Hungary, would not be a problem in itself, but we share the concern that those abuses will not be excluded so that the names of the voters who have died can be used to obtain votes. So we do not see the guarantee in this system that it eliminates or excludes this extremely important problem and potential abuse. In the system of collection of recommendations, we consider it a very serious problem and restriction to exclude the possibility of collecting recommendations in private areas open to public traffic, obviously thinking of car parks and the rest. We believe that the responsibility assigned to property in the Fundamental Law is the guiding principle in this regard, so this kind of responsibility underlines the need to make this particular private area available to public traffic for such an important public purpose. So we have also put forward a proposal in this regard to continue to do so. It is a very prominent proposal and it negatively affects opposition parties by banning so-called wildlife posters. In a rather cynical way, I would introduce a justification that, in addition to the protection of built and natural interests, it is justified, given the proportionate protection of private property, that, say, a poster may be placed on an electric column. After being beautifully dominated by billboards, the market for various advertising platforms, this clearly refers to or aims at this amendment of the law, this point is that opposition parties who do not have an oligarch behind them who have advertising platforms cannot send messages to voters in this way. This is totally unacceptable. In this connection, we have also tabled an amendment which would make this regulation a little easier to place on these certain elements, let us say, on a solid board in a way that does not cause injury to the advertising surface. [[20.30]] I hope that my fellow pro-government Members and the pro-government majority will see that this could be a compromise, a proposal for an amendment that would certainly make this proposal tabled more democratic. My fellow Members have also spoken about the order of the vote on the letter, and they have not yet said that the proposal includes an extension of the deadline for the vote on the letter, of the time available. This is acceptable to us, so this can be a justified step, but at the same time it is noticed why they will not open up the possibility of voting letters for everyone who is not in Hungary at the time of the election. The distinction between the vote on letters and the vote on foreign representation is totally unacceptable, and there is obviously no way to compare the amount of energy or energy that citizens who vote in different ways can invest in the election and how much work it takes to do so. It was also mentioned that the letter vote can now be sent in virtually any envelope. This concerns us, too, because in this way, indeed, as my fellow Member said, it is not possible to be sure that the package has not been opened earlier and that the vote cast has not been modified. These are, therefore, the most important problems that I would like to highlight, but we also see other problematic elements. However, I would also like to talk about the amendments that we have tabled. I do not wish to list all of them, but I will mention the more important ones, and I hope that my fellow Members will be able to see that there is a need for you to support these amendments. What I have already mentioned is that in such a more civilized way than posters, by placing such a fixed disk surface, we find it necessary and justified to ensure that posters can be posted, in addition to traditional advertising platforms. Typically, the municipalities do not place advertising platforms, this option would remain, but I have seen a lot of places in the country during the campaign, that there are hardly any municipalities that would make sufficient provision for these advertising platforms to be deployed. Unfortunately, this is not a solved alternative. We consider it very important to continue to ensure the possibility of campaigning in private areas opened up to public traffic, because we believe that communicating with voters in this way is a significantly more important interest, and it is certainly not worth defending the right to private property in this respect to a justified extent. In relation to the decisions of the electoral committees, we consider it extremely important to publish the decisions of the electoral committees immediately after their birth, so that the decisions of the electoral committees can be made known. It's amazing that it has to be taken care of, because it's not guaranteed. We have also submitted an amendment that does not constitute a poster for temporary projection on the wall of the building or building. I think it is understandable why we have tabled this amendment, and I think it is entirely logical, and we think that is entirely logical. Indeed, I do not know which of my fellow Members, perhaps Gábor Staudt, mentioned that it would indeed be appropriate to leave a narrower time limit for the examination of violations of equal opportunities. Indeed, the very lifelike example, as my fellow Member has said, is that it is completely unnecessary to wait for the next issue to be examined for the facts of the violation of equal opportunities. All in all, we must therefore say in the context of the bill that, in addition to some really important and acceptable amendments, this bill will limit the freedom of choice in this way, by adopting it we will be further away from a democratic electoral system, but, nevertheless, I ask my fellow Members to examine, accept and support our proposals submitted, but I can say that unfortunately, the LMP fraction will not be able to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-256	Thank you too, Congressman. Congressman Coach-Cake Olivio, lead speaker of the Dialogue, please.
u2018-07-03-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Because it's getting late and I'm the last speaker [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I'll try not to repeat what I've said before, most of the opposition...
u2018-07-03-258	Don't trust that. [[Defiance.]]
u2018-07-03-259	... I fully agree with most opposition speakers in the evaluation. However, I must respond to some of Mr Bajkai's statements. I don't know why it was necessary, but you mentioned that the opposition employed foreign advisors. You must have meant Arthur Finkelstein, who gave Fidesz advice on his hate campaign. He talked about either the very different constituencies before 2010, and he must be talking about the constituency in the I-V district, across the Danube, or the district in Siófok, where Siófok city and the city of Taszár are in a constituency. So, I kind of think it would be nice if we talked professionally about a bill, then to make professional arguments. In the first round I also miss the conciliation, so this is a law on elections, where the parliamentary parties are here, planning to participate in the next election, they also took part in the previous election. The way would be, the elegant way would be if there was a conciliation process, at the end of which we could adopt a consensus proposal. Obviously, it's not elegant, the way it's submitted, but we're used to it. In the end, I will propose that we do not adopt this bill, but that there be a conciliation process. There are good directions in the bill, and I'll say a few words about them, but what we've noticed is that the goal is to change what was not beneficial in the law passed by Fidesz. Several people have mentioned the facilitation of letter voting here, and we support this, so it should be as easy to vote in a letter as possible, there should be no administrative obstacles to not being able to cast the vote properly, but here many have mentioned to us that yes, citizens living abroad with a Hungarian address should also be able to do so. narrowing down the posting of posters is a very cynical proposal, especially today, when there is news that the government is launching another 2.3 billion-dollar poster campaign, and I say the government for a reason, because the government and Fidesz's communications are completely coincidental. So in this respect, we can easily talk about it with practically the same messages from the government as Fidesz. Knowing that we know who the giant posters companies, the citylight companies, the elephant ear companies are owned by, this proposal virtually removes from opposition parties the minimum surfaces where voters can inform about the candidate and their ideas. This will make the campaign completely one-sided. The general justification states that the purpose of the bill is to address the difficulties encountered. Now, the biggest difficulty, as many have said, was the biggest difficulty of the elections, the biggest difficulty of the previous elections was the position of the transferors, but this was already known in 14 years, so it was four years to change this, but it is only now that this change is taking place. But we think that the proposal that has been tabled will not solve this problem, as they are thinking more about such large-scale ballot counting committees and committees divided into different rooms, which will not solve the problem of standing in line. I understand, and that is why the applications have been moved from two days to four days, and I understand that it is good to know in advance where the polling districts will be where the voters who have signed up will vote, but it is quite possible to know this, so they are usually university cities, and perhaps even district areas in Budapest can be told which of these places could be prepared for this, and the solution would certainly be to divide these voters into several polling districts. Restricting business parties and fake parties is a good direction that we can support, but otherwise, they're less fake parties, they're business parties. The elimination of the plural recommendation should be tried; I am not sure that this will solve the problem, because if the candidates can be quasi bought by these business parties, they will probably buy those few hundred signatures as well. As long as the system here is such that it gives money to those who are leaving, unfortunately, these parties will start and take advantage of this opportunity. This legal problem can be solved with the previously mentioned unclaimed party officials. [[20.40]] It should be approved that the number of members of the ballot counting committee, as well as the number of directors of the minutes, could be increased and expanded; this was indeed a problem in the previous system. What I would like to highlight, which hasn't been mentioned, here at the posters, is the lack of impressions. If I've read it right, you can post a poster where the candidate and the party are on it, and you don't have to put an impression on it. This seems practical at first, but it can also be an opportunity for abuse, so they can post a poster with the candidate, the party name on it and make it look bad. So maybe that's worth thinking about. The proposal does not remedy the possibility of fraud and does not close the loopholes with regard to referrals. In the last midterm election in Zugló, we also saw these sheets being copied, and the 2014 VI. Mr. Bajkai must have been aware of such a case during district municipal elections, where the Schmuck Social Democratic Party copied the arcs of Fidesz. There's been an investigation into this case, but unfortunately, they haven't been able to make any progress. Finally, our proposal to have a dialogue between parliamentary parties in this area, I do not think that we are being chased by the Tatar, and in the autumn we can accept such a proposal to have this proposal for the elections to the European Parliament, for the elections to the local government, and to adopt a consensusary proposal that can be supported by all parties. Thank you.
u2018-07-03-260	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing nationalities, so I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Here you go, Madam Speaker.
u2018-07-03-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Spoštovani Predsednik, spoštovane gospe Poslanke in gospodje Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The 13 indigenous ethnic communities living in Hungary are LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. it has been given the opportunity to establish its own political organisations and minority self-governments, based on the provisions of law. The same law has already laid down the possibility of representing national minorities in Hungary in Parliament. 20. Paragraph (1) of the Act states:. Minorities have the right to parliamentary representation in a manner specified in a separate law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. While the local national governments, and then the regional and national bodies elected from the delegates, were established in 1994 and 1995 respectively, the nationalities in Hungary had to wait until 2014. The 2011 CLXXIX on the Rights of the Fundamental Law and nationalities. Act XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure, which takes into account these provisions. Laws allowed a part of Hungarian voters who registered in the national minority register to vote for candidates for minority representatives during the 2014 election. The Ve. Chapter I, which sets out the scope of the law, 1. § (c) names the election of representatives of local governments. It is well known that, according to today's laws, most of the 13 Hungarian nationalities do not have a realistic chance of having a parliamentary imager in Parliament with a reduced mandate. I consider it a matter of consideration for Article 1 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. In addition to the provisions of the Act on the election of Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. In this way, more and more Hungarian citizens will probably learn about the essence of national representation and its importance. The 2014 parliamentary election pointed to some difficulties in the national legislation of the electoral procedure. These reflected, in particular, the anomalies of the electoral procedure, which the committee of Hungarian nationalities, which was formed in 2014, responded immediately. As a result of the amendments, national electors could use the right of election in a simpler way, and the aim of settlements wishing to create local governments became more secure. From February 2014, persons appointed by nominating organisations, including national minority authorities, who set up a national list at the elections, can participate in the work of the National Election Committee, as national minority authorities have been entitled to make a national minority list. However, in the field of the Act on Election Procedure and its practical implementation, there are numerous cases of critical comments in the minority communities concerning certain paragraphs of the Act under discussion. The T/714 in front of us. Legislative bill No.3 does not allow a substantive response to questions concerning the right to vote of nationalities. However, the general debate may bear some insight beyond the paragraphs currently tabled for amendment. The most sensitive issue for national minority voters is already in 2014 and 2018 the two national lists, i.e. the need to choose between the party list or the nationality list. Many national voters, who claim to be dual identity in Hungary today, consider that if they have to give up one or the other, they are limited in some of their rights. Of course, we know that if national voters could vote for national party lists, national minority lists and individual lists, they would not be entitled to two but three votes against those belonging to the majority society. In the absence of this, however, voters belonging to a nationality are forced to decide: in general, the members of the decision-making legislative body of Hungary as a whole are supported by their votes cast on the party lists, or by their preferential representatives representing the interests of their own nationalities. In particular, the group of young people belonging to the nationality feels that it is their civic duty and right to have to do with the mandate to govern the country. Many ethnic advocates have a very low number of votes because voters prefer to vote on party lists. It is obvious to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary that this amendment does not remedy this observation, but many of the members of the committee have appreciated that this should be said openly before this House. The experience of two parliamentary elections in the case of ethnic communities is that the allocation of campaign funds to the National Election Office after the receipt of the national electoral lists significantly hampers the preparation for the elections. The voting rights of national electors are subject to registration. However, the intensity of registration implies very serious information work, in a manner of speaking, campaign work by the candidate national authorities. At the meeting of our Committee, it was clear that part of the campaign costs should be devoted to the work of the registration period, so it would be important for communities to have them at the same time. Our proposal is that at least half of the amount that can be spent on campaign activities for national minority authorities will be allocated to the registration campaign as soon as possible after the elections have been launched, while further payment of expenditure should be made during the campaign period or at the end of the campaign period. At our meeting, the question again arose as to why citizens living in Hungary, who are no longer nationals, are now members of a minority community, cannot be elected by ethnic communities or can not vote. It is clear that this is covered by Article XXIII of the Fundamental Law. Article 1 (1) and the wording of the provision that every Hungarian citizen of the age who has the right to vote in the municipal elections may vote in the general election of representatives of national governments, if he has been registered as a national elector before the election, of course this will give a clear answer to this question. [[20.50]] The experience of the last two parliamentary elections is also some of the shortcomings which relate partly to the registration processes of national elections and the operation of local election offices and local electoral committees. Since the law makes the election of national representatives subject to registration for both national and local elections, registration should operate without problems. Voters should also be able to promote this possibility, or, if they so wish, its duty, with substantially more substantiated and clearer public advertisements. Following a number of comments, the National Election Office's information material was published only during the campaign period through the media, which concerned the right of national minorities to vote for registration. These briefings were rarely screened or rarely broadcast on certain radio channels. In the television programmes of ethnic communities, registration material was not allowed to be published either by nominating organisations or by advocate candidates. National minority self-governments as nominating organisations and national minority solo candidates could appear in their national programmes for a total period of three minutes during the campaign period and had three minutes on the radio. Of course, we could also exercise the right to a one-minute television appearance provided by MTVA. It is obvious that the Act on Election Procedure is 148. In the case of media and press appearances, in addition to compliance with the provisions of Article 4 of the Act, they are extremely important. Registration as a national electorate is not self-evident. Although nationalities have done their best with their own opportunities where national authorities operate, diasporas are difficult to reach. The request made by the members of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is also a question of issuing the register of national voters to the nominating organisation. National minority self-governments as nominating organisations should be able to complete the nationality register at least three times. The effectiveness of the incentive to register would be helped if the nominating organisation knew who the Hungarian voters were in their own circle, who they still had to address on the grounds of registration. It is regrettable that sometimes those who wish to register rejections in a nationality register have received reasons that are difficult to interpret. For example, a specific case, a doctor, received the answer in her reply that she had tried to register in an inappropriate manner, since she had a different name since birth, her birth data did not match those published in the register, although I think she probably knows her own data. We expect the rejection of a number of further registrations to be lifted in the present bill 79. Article 93 of the Act on Election Procedure. It clarifies its section on several points. During the election of members of electoral committees and ballot counting committees at different levels, it would be considered a significant step forward if members of nationalities were included in these categories. With bitter taste, we have found that although the National Election Office organised a number of further training courses for members of local electoral committees, members of local electoral offices, in many of these trainings, the treatment of national electoral voters, ethnic minority lists as a specific category, or the specs of ethnic elections have not been revealed. For example, it may have resulted in several election committees not being able to handle the situation well when the voter, appearing in the election, was looking for his national electoral ballot instead of the national party list, but it was not available despite the fact that the voter had the confirmation sent to him that he had registered as a national electorate. In the course of legislative amendments, it would be appropriate to emphasise the presence of the specific situation that national lists of national minorities and voters of national minorities are also appearing in the parliamentary elections in Hungary today. We look forward to T/714. Amendment to the Act on Election Procedure to further facilitate the conduct of national elections. Hvala za posornost! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-262	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. Now, dear Members, it's a two-minute lap. There are candidates. First, Congressman Vejkey, representative of KDNP in two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-263	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly in one sentence to opposition speakers. Gábor Staudt, our better fellow Member, complained about the lack of introduction of the e-vote. Indeed, it looks forward, but international experience shows, in particular, the German example, that the German Constitutional Court, the Verfassungsgericht, has established 2.6 million votes, which could not be accounted for in connection with the e-vote. We do not want a similar case in Hungary with regard to voters, just as with one vote, let alone 2.6 million votes. Zsolt Molnár, our MSZP fellow Member, recalled the dead souls of Gogol, but we have to establish that, despite their search, they did not find this during the 2018 elections. Our colleague Gergely Arató, DK, said that this bill is about fear. It is not about fear, my honourable fellow Member, but about fine-tuning itself. I do not want to be cynical about what László Lóránt Keresztes said, but what my fellow Member from LMP said about what he agrees with István Bajkai, I can confirm from our side that we agree with you on that. Last but not least, Kocsis-Cake Olivio missed the dialogue on the part of the Dialogue. Here I would like to point out to my fellow Member that this is a motion for individual representatives, where prior consultation would be difficult. And the second is that he challenged the line, why there were queues... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] If you'll allow me, Mr. President, to finish, briefly.
u2018-07-03-264	But it's two minutes, Congressman, that's the point. Next time, thank you. Finish the thought. We're sitting here at 9:15. We're very reasonable in this regard. [[Defiance.]]
u2018-07-03-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The conclusion of the idea is that we wanted to solve the line and many of the issues already in 2017, but we did not receive the support from the opposition at the time, which would have been necessary for the two-thirds adoption. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Shame! Cancel!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-266	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr. Jobbik.
u2018-07-03-267	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Mr Vejkey, why they wish to fine-tune in the form of a motion from individual representatives, to solve a matter of such importance and fundamental rights. I feel like an amazing cynicism. I'd like to tell you that you're arguing about the size of envelopes here, and I don't want to say that you're a clown. But I expect a clear answer from you on why, in the case of Hungarians who are forced to migrate to the West, the institution of voting in the letter is not willing to discuss what is the reason for your reading. And I want a very specific answer to that, even from the State Secretary's level. It is quite clear that Fidesz's pure political interests are against this. If you had examined certain regions, you might not have been included in Parliament, perhaps among the Hungarians voting in Britain. Once again, I do not want to be cynical, I would be very interested in your response to what is said about voting against the letter among Hungarians who have been displaced abroad, while in other regions, in the disconnected parts, it has become a viable formula. [[21.00]] I would like to point out to my fellow Member that, if there are ominous data coming from Germany regarding the e-vote, I would suggest that it is not from the Baltic region. So, not the way the method is supposed to be destroyed, just because it doesn't work well somewhere, but you have to find the fine-tuned method that makes it work well. Based on your logic, e-administration should not be introduced, because there is an area, county, canton, city in the world where there have been huge scandals. However, I would like to encourage you to look for a working solution, a working solution coupled with as little abuse as possible. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2018-07-03-268	Thank you very much. Secretary Völner asked me to give you the floor. With all due respect to the fairness that we're still in a two-minute circle, and... [[Dr. Pál Völner: I asked for two minutes.]] Very good. Here you go. Let's measure it.
u2018-07-03-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Only here is the specific issue, and in the context of the voting letters, I would like to clarify that there is also a decision by the Constitutional Court, which has stated that regulation must be established with regard to homogeneous voting groups. Now the Hungarians from abroad, those who live in, say, the neighbouring countries, and Hungarians with a home address, are not a homogeneous group. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] The fact that they are in the same position as the people in this country can vote according to the same rules. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Isn't suffrage equal?]] If you want to vote in a letter, get an address there instead of here, and you will be entitled to vote in the same letter as those forced to do so. So they're basically studying the Constitutional Court's decision, maybe it'll reassure you properly. I think that there have been a little bit of criticism here in relation to the electoral district borders, because in the previous system there have been up to two differences in the number of voters, a 15-percent derogation is now allowed. Let me just give you one individual example: I used to have a tape-like constituency of almost 80 kilometers long, and today it covers a walk with a few surrounding settlements, practically a geographical unit for voters to vote for. That's why I'm telling you, these ideas... Just in comparison with an earlier Council of Ministers regulation, legislation was created at the statutory level, which was repeatedly issued for the Constitutional Court's request. The objection to this is not entirely fair. I could say other things, but I appreciate Mr President's efforts to be operational. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-270	There's a great deal of agreement between us at 9:2 p.m. Bence Tordai will obviously represent this spirit. He'll be revealed in two minutes. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-271	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Colleagues, on the other side. Let us be very clear: this amendment to the electoral law is about the fact that you are still afraid of people's opinions. In spite of the fact that the third two thirds are announced with a large number of votes, the fact is that in 2014 and 2018 the people who wanted to change were the majority in the election. Those who wanted change, those who voted for opposition parties, were in the majority. The fact that the Fidesz-based election system has resulted in two-thirds of these results is not the problem of voters and not the problem of Hungarian democracy, but the crime of Fidesz. Despite the infinite amount of spent public money forints, despite the collapse of the entire media, despite the silly propaganda and hate campaign, it seems that there are still the majority of those who do not want Fidesz on the government. And you do not fine-tune, but continue to govern the electoral law according to the interests of Fidesz-KDNP, so that the opposition, if possible, does not even have as much chance in the next elections as it has been. That means that, despite your determination to play the role of the unquestioned leader of the country, you are still afraid of the opposition and are still afraid of the change of government. They're doing it for a perfectly good reason, because there are a lot of criminals in your ranks who, after a change of government, would go to jail after an independent justice system has been established. I understand, therefore, that they have a great deal to lose, and these opportunities that the opposition could use to overthrow the government in the next election are being sought out by all kinds of legal tricks. This election law amendment is about this, not anything else. We can talk about fine-tuning, but the truth is this. Thank you. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's why you're there, not here. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2018-07-03-272	Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK, two minutes.
u2018-07-03-273	I feel that Mr President wants to encourage the debate, and I would like to take this opportunity in any case.
u2018-07-03-274	There have been debates between us before, and now the Member is pushing this further.
u2018-07-03-275	So, in any case, the part of the Secretary of State's statement reassures me that a convenient constituency has been set up for him in this electoral system. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] The problem, Mr. Secretary, is that not for others and not elsewhere. This is just the problem, that the constituencies have been tailored to their individual needs, and such wonderful constituencies as Baranya 2, where Komló and Pécs join each other on the same handle, so that the relatively left-wing voters are well grouped together. And I could continue with the examples for a long time. As a matter of fact, it is a homogeneous group or group, well, indeed, it is not a homogeneous group of Hungarians working abroad and Hungarians working abroad, because the former vote for Fidesz, so they allow them to vote in the letter without any substantive control, the latter tend to vote for opposition parties, so they should stand in line for hours in front of the embassies. That is all that is unacceptable, honourable Secretary of State, unfair and totally unfair. Finally, Congressman Vejkey said that there were dead souls here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that earlier in a letter, the Election Office drew attention to the maladministration that if organisations register Hungarians' letter votes across the border and thus acquire personal data, this will open up the possibility of abuse. That's what happened. Outside organizations registered people, often linked to other political actions, I wouldn't go into this in detail. Of course, you can't prove dead souls, because there's a hole in the regulation just so there's no abuse, there's no evidence of abuse. But that's what's unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2018-07-03-276	Thank you very much. We will now return to the speech of the Member who has asked for a normal word. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP!
u2018-07-03-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First, I would like to return to Mr Bajkai's national exposé. A sentence hit my ear hard. You said that you had mistakenly decided to remove a mandate from Fidesz. That's what we've heard from the Prime Minister, the Mansion. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Constitutional Court.]] No, I'm not, Mr. Secretary, but I'm going to talk about that. You know very well that it's not true, but you've graduated from that university, and you can read. In the previous debate, you spoke here for a long time about Montesquieu's separation of powers, how sacred and inviolable the independence of the courts is. And now, in a parliamentary exposé, you're telling me that the Curia's final judgment, a decision that was wrongly decided. This is your personal opinion, or the Fidesz-Hungarian Civil Party, or I don't know if the Curia made the wrong choice, because in the latter case, I think it's worse than anyone would think. By the way, the Curia didn't take that mandate; it's just that you at least once know what happened. An observer of the MSZP was present in the National Election Office building, when the first letter votes arrived before the Sunday vote, and he noticed that the envelopes created for this purpose by the electoral bodies were otherwise damaged and that they appeared to be touching it. That has been the point so far, my fellow Members, and every body that has considered this vote to be destroyed has made a very legitimate and correct decision. They were glued with special adhesives that you can see if you touch them. You can't tape it back later. By detecting such envelopes, he made a motion to the National Election Committee to do something systematically. This committee, with a majority decision, has decided that it is right. Then, by the way, the Curia approved this, and the Constitutional Court stated that it could not decide or decide on this matter, Mr State Secretary. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The 30 days are up.]] He didn't decide. So that's why there are objective things. Please, there's no wrong way to explain this. If the Constitutional Court had decided, today they would have 134 seats in Parliament. [[Dr. Pál Völner: He has not decided because of the deadline.]] And yes, I don't think it's fair that what you're putting in the bill is that, by the way, a security system so clearly and clearly designed for this purpose will be abolished, and everyone will be sending letter votes in an envelope and in a way that they want, obviously, will provide a huge opportunity for further abuse. [[21.10]] State Secretary Pál Völner said that the 500-600-700 thousand, if I understand correctly, is not a homogeneous group, and we do not know how many hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who live and work in Western Europe or elsewhere in the world. And if I understand it correctly, he said that it would be very simple in this respect to become homogeneous with Hungarians across the border if they canceled their permanent address in Hungary. I understand that's what you said. [[Dr. Pál Völner: If this is how you want to vote.]] I see. So you suggest to our nearly 600-700 thousand fellow citizens that you give up your permanent address in Hungary permanently, if you wish to vote in a letter, that is the solution; it is not that you write two more sentences in this law, by the way. It is simply a matter of cynicism and contempt for people, while, Mr. Secretary of State, let me inform you that such a great technical obstacle may not be possible to find our citizens working abroad, because I have actually seen that letter sent to me from a circle of acquaintance that a girl who worked there recently went to Austria and received a letter of thanks from Viktor Orbán, a girl who worked there, addressed to her Austrian address by Hungarian public money. So, when Prime Minister is using political capital to write to citizens from public money, we find them in Austria, when, by the way, they need to be given a vote in the vote on the letter, they are not homogeneous, and, of course, no technical solution is possible for them to vote in the same way in a letter. Finally, I would like to read to you a quote on how serious and fair and fair this bill is today. , 1. I propose that the Legislative Committee of the Parliament, together with the National Election Committee, review the experience of the electoral procedure and, if it considers appropriate, propose to Parliament that the electoral procedural law be amended. 2. This year, 23 parties have made national lists, never before. The following figures reveal a great deal: 16 out of 23 parties did not reach 1 percent support, 15 did not even reach half a percent. The last ten runners in the election competition received slightly more than 22,000 votes in total. Each party setting up a national list received at least HUF 153 million in support. Unfortunately, based on previous experience, there is a chance that they will not be able to account for this. I therefore suggest that you consider the honourable Parliament, that it should not go back to the former regulation and prevent some from making a business out of the celebration of democracy. 3. We have all seen that on 8 April there were polling districts where the voters had to wait 2-3 hours to cast their votes. This is unacceptable and, therefore, without prejudice to the responsibility of the legislator and the legislator, on behalf of the State, I apologise to our fellow countrymen who are in such an unworthy situation. At the same time, I thank them for waiting patiently, without sobs. For me, this responsible attitude has really made the 18th parliamentary election a celebration of democracy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, This was the speech of the President of the Republic of Hungary here in the pulpit not so long ago, for the first time after the elections. He made three requests against the Parliament. One of these three has now been partially brought into this bill, and the other two have been given a great deal of attention. Are you telling us, Mr Vejkey, how would we coordinate with an individual representative's motion? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Well, that's the problem!]] Your former vice-president, the President of the Republic of Hungary, has asked you here to review this law with a meaningful, meaningful work by the Legislative Committee and the National Election Committee. Did it happen? I don't know who filed it, and who gave him this text about how many people filed it, and who sent you this text, but do you think that was the settlement that the President of the Republic asked for here? They applauded, we sat here, they applauded the president. Your second request has not been granted, of course. The president made it clear that you should return to the old system. And it is not a matter of absolving and absolving who will take responsibility later on financially, but of what each of my fellow Members has already said here, and you know it: the system of plural recommendation is the basis of manipulation, abuse, theft, fraud. We should probably pull one sentence out of the law, maybe two. And this was very specifically requested by the President of the Republic here in the ugly election [[Dr. Pál Völner: After your defeat.]] after the completion of the procedure. And you can also comment here, Mr State Secretary, but the President of the Fidesz Republic was forced to apologize to the Hungarian electorate for the way this election was conducted. You were sitting here, I didn't see that smile on your face. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you either don't take your own President of the Republic seriously, or that is simply what we have seen so far, that the authority of the Hungarian Parliament from your point of view is worthless. Either way, I think it's a disgrace to you, and believe me, this bill is not going to do anything. I also say to those who have taken it into their name, and I very much hope that if you still have any influence or authority on your President of the Republic, then he will talk about it, too, although I may have a hand in the pot at this moment. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-07-03-278	On behalf of the government, Secretary Völner has asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I asked him to speak to me. I didn't suggest it. I said there was a technical possibility. So if your friends feel they want to vote in a letter, they can do this because there is a technical possibility, they can join that homogeneous group. Those who have a Hungarian address and work abroad form a homogeneous group with the citizens of Hungary; perhaps my argument has not been made exactly. The other is the existence of the problem itself. There was practically no institution for voting in the letter, and before 2010, we know that Balliberian parties ruled in this country, then this was absolutely not a problem, and today, it seems to be the main problem of the Hungarian electoral system. I believe that this proposal will comply with the request made by the President of the Republic. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: In what?]] The fact that he has raised technical possibilities is obvious that he does not tell anyone how to solve these problems, and, as I said, these technical solutions, as Mr Bajkai said in his introduction, can be a solution. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Well done! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-280	Thank you very much. Congressman Torda in two minutes, Dialogue!
u2018-07-03-281	Mr President, I just think that we didn't rightly remember how the election law was adapted to Fidesz and the election frauds that were presented during the election in 2018. Yeah, it's clear that tens of thousands of votes have been cheated here in the last few months, and they have court judgments on that. And what the electoral districts looked like before and after the 2011 electoral law was redesigned is just a figure: the electoral districts leaning towards Fidesz have an average of 10 percent less soul than the left-wing constituencies. This means that Fidesz voters have more seats in law. Again, it's a net election fraud, even if you state it by law. The fact that your constituency is closer to the sphere than an elongated rectangle is actually an individual social problem. What matters is that there is Gerrymandering, whether there is an effort to convert the Fidesz votes into several mandates or not. And you, of course, have solved this well, because you have a talent for this kind of power technology. In the same way, it has been resolved that, in addition to the fragmented opposition, a two-way electoral system should not cause you any problems. They turned the electoral system into one turn, so they were able to bring individual seats with a relative majority, up to 30-35 percent vote. Obviously this is part of the opposition's responsibility, but on the other hand, it is the result of conscious planning, adapting the electoral law to fidesz interests, which you so well resolved in 2011; and because of which, since then, I say that their governance is completely illegal, the results of elections 14 and 18 are illegitimate. Thank you.
u2018-07-03-282	Dear Parliament, With nothing but the power of duty, I ask you that someone else would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. [[21.20]] Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, in this case Mr Bajkai, how he wishes to react. [[On Dr. István Bajkai's signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2018-07-03-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Also, given the progress of time, and by the opposition, I can safely say this, and let me actually say, as a summary assessment, that I am actually trying to give a correct answer to pointless accusations by simplifying the fact that today, with regard to the legislative proposal submitted, I think that today's meeting would have covered the position of the legislative body in relation to individual Members' motions. It was a lot of things, but let's face it, this proposal has not been discussed. Of course, I would like to stress that you are not a stranger to the attitude of the opposition, so that your thoughts can wander anywhere else on any issue. We know the expression "obstruction" in Hungarian law and even political history. I can see that the opposition is talking about a lot of things, which is probably what it wants to buy time to make the decision as soon as possible, but it will come to that, so calm down. I'll go a little bit on time. In fact, in today's session, the two expressions that fear and the disproportionateness of the electoral system have also been said. I'm sure it would be cheap to talk about it, or I could list inexpensive excuses, but in fact, I would refer to the election campaign, to two parliamentary elections, in particular, that some of the opposition's sentences, if I quote, were to speak only of fear and use the expression of fear, who directly put in jail for members of the government, or even for the conservative side. It was part of their campaign technique, and fear-promoting was more than enough to fit into electoral proceedings. Then it was possible for this communication to announce itself as the winner of the elections, and even unconfirmed reports suggest that government formation negotiations were already under way on the day of the election, and then, sometime in the southern region, they were interrupted for some reason. So this electoral law gave everyone the opportunity to express their views and to participate in the elections knowing and under the conditions of this electoral law that even the threat could be included. Bence Tordai likes criminological expressions, and even in every language, some kind of crime always appears, or some form of crime, so it is safe to say that extremists are actually represented by those on the benches of the opposition. However, and that is the point of this proposal, I am always happy to talk about the fact that even the Romans, they say, have developed their legal system along the principle of progress. This is also an example of progress, although I do not want to carry on such greatness when it proposes amendments to the electoral law on the basis of the experience of law enforcement used by the legislators in the presentation and expoze. These amendments would have been the subject of today's discussion, but unfortunately, this was not the case at today's meeting. I am also very sorry about this direction of the debate and this turn of events, because it is not about discussing the laws or discussing the proposal, but about making our own voices heard. This is also self-serving, it is also an obstruction, but I would like to put it this way, and I would like to point out to some of our fellow Members sitting in the benches of the opposition that, if we want to benefit this country, we should talk about what we do, about legislation and the tasks of legislation. Mr Secretary of State has already addressed a number of questions, and our fellow Member Vejkey has, in essence, answered what has been said. However, I would like to ask you two questions, if I may, but I would like to talk about them or return to them. First of all, it has never been expressed in a prominent form that the objections expressed by the electoral law or by international organisations condemned by international organisations have been expressed. It was a summary term for you, and I could put it as a Member of Parliament, but perhaps as a lawyer, it would be good to talk about specifics if we talk about something. It would also make sense, even if there was such an observation, to be formulated in relation to the proposal by its respective representatives. They didn't do that. They usually like to refer to international organisations, experts from somewhere away, or even press statements, but I think that we should respect this House and respect each other by saying that when it comes to excuses, we are putting concrete points in front of all of us and we are talking about concrete issues. Well, there's nothing to do with those sentences, not even from a lawyer's point of view. More emphasis was also expressed here on the issue of letter votes. I would like to say that it is one of the aims of the vote on the letter, and I think that no one has been able to dispute this, so that the broadest possible number of voters and those who wish to live with the right to vote can obtain an opinion and decide on the fate of this country. If the possibility of voting in a letter by you is an important institution of our rule of law, it is an important institution for as many people as possible to express their views, for as many people as possible to decide on their fate and the fate of this country, then the intention to deal with a specific issue which is partly apparent from the Constitutional Court's decision that there is a legitimate solution to it, because the current rules are legal, and those who wish to exercise their electoral rights can exercise their rights according to the rules of the letter vote. Moreover, this institution is not given in this form in many countries of the world, which is also part of the democratic community. So I could safely put it this way, obviously I do not want to praise ourselves in particular, but that is what I must do, however, that our current system provides a very democratic and wide-ranging opportunity for those who wish to exercise their suffrage. So you're fighting something or something that serves this country, and it serves to make as many as possible use of their suffrage. I do not want to ask a rhetorical question, because there are only a few left in the room, and I do not think they will ever answer that question, what is the problem with this, when it is really about the wide range of voting rights and the possibility of living with suffrage. Why is that a problem? Obviously, there are political reasons behind this, but I think that we are once again going back to the problem that I, as a new Member, can only put here in the house of the law to talk about laws and the spirit of the law. We have already quoted Montesquieu's 1748 work on the spirit of the law once today, and I would like to remind you all, believe me, it is very topical, very timely. Fake parties, little couples. This is partly linked to a constitutional issue as to the conditions under which a political organisation and party can be set up under the relevant legislation and how to distinguish between departure and participation in elections. I think this constitutionality issue is now resolved by this bill, because obviously freedom of party formation and freedom of association are part of political freedoms. Starting in elections is also an important opportunity for all organisations wishing to intervene in politics or participate in politics. However, it is clear that the elimination of fake parties is unjustified, let us put it this way, and we would only want to implement significantly stricter rules for start-ups for making money. I think it serves constitutionality together and serves at the same time what the President of the Republic has said here earlier and has also been quoted to act against this harmful phenomenon. Finally, the last sentence I would like to share with you is the line. This fact was obviously unfortunate, and was also detrimental, where appropriate, to those wishing to exercise their suffrage, causing difficulties, and, as I explained in my presentation, this was actually a problem for all of us. We are offering a solution to this, and we believe that this solution will serve the cause of everyone who will take part in the elections and will provide adequate preparation for the election. [[21.30]] One parentheses note, please allow us. If we look at the countries of the world, or at least a significant part of the developed world, there have been such phenomena everywhere, there are also such phenomena. This does not mean a failure of democracy at all, and it does not mean that we should, so to speak, cry out with some kind of loud cry regarding democracy or the protection of the rule of law. I stress that there is obviously a better solution than the current regulation. This is what the bill serves to provide us with a better solution to avoid such situations. However, there is no reason to shout out loud and say that democracy is now over, because they have been in line for a few hours. We regret that the President of the Republic has also explained this, and I regret it myself, but this does not restrict democracy or the freedom of choice. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-07-03-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the draft law on the right of assembly and the draft law on the protection of privacy will follow until closure. Government referrals T/707. and T/706. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, author. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Parliament recently adopted the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law confirming the protection of private and family life and of the home. The joint general debate of two legislative proposals that are closely linked to the new VI of the Fundamental Law will be launched today by this House. However, it does not merely refer to its implementing rules. If we take a look back, we can conclude that our earlier constitution only named some aspects of the private sector, but did not provide general, comprehensive protection for them. Former Constitution 59. § (1) guaranteed, for example, the right to good repute, the integrity of private dwellings and the protection of privacy and personal data. However, with the entry into force of the Fundamental Law on 1 January 2012, the protection of privacy in Hungary has risen to a new level of regulation. The expression of the general protection of privacy in the Constitution provides the highest level of legal recognition, which also corresponds to the protection provided for in Article 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. As a result of technological progress, digitalisation and the modernisation of media publicity, the protection of the individual's private sector is facing new challenges. In the digital age, the protection of privacy includes not only the intimate sphere, good reputation, but also a wider privacy, the individual's family life, home and contact. Modern tools for information communication have changed and continuously shaped the daily forms of communication. The individual's dignity and right to privacy should also be guaranteed in the social media space. Privacy protection should cover both physical and online harassment. Internet harassment is, by the way, a new, extremely serious behaviour that can have either suicide or other tragic consequences, especially for children or minors. In the framework of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, the Constitutional Court considered it necessary to provide for Article VI of the Fundamental Law. Complementing Article 4 of the Act, which guarantees an increased protection of private life as a result of the fact that freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly should not result in harming the private and family lives of others and their homes. In addition, it stated that the State would provide legal protection to the home in order to preserve its calmness. The draft law on the protection of privacy is a proposal for a separate act which is part of Article VI of the Fundamental Law. This article opens the right to respect for privacy, family life, home and contacts. In fact, this proposal serves as a bridge between the Fundamental Law and the specific laws which affect privacy in any way, it seeks to guide individuals who want to enjoy the right to privacy and those who seek to enforce that protection. The right to privacy must also be respected in the free debate on public affairs. This also means that both public and non-public actors have the same right to privacy and home protection. The most controversial, frequently discussed issue of the last quarter of a century was the criticism of public figures in the field of freedom of speech and the ability to know their private lives. The definition of the level of protection in the proposal is not related to visibility, but to the functioning of a democratic society; it is essential for the free discussion of public affairs, which is the factor that draws the line between privacy and public life. In contrast to communications or conduct outside the scope of free debate on public affairs, the public operator shall be entitled to the same protection as a non-public actor. This is the purpose of the amendment of the Civil Code, while ensuring consistency with the Fundamental Law, in view of its seventh amendment. Consider that without protecting the privacy of the public figure, for example, it is not possible to protect the non-public actor's family member in this way. According to the bill, in the event of a breach of the right to privacy, everyone can turn to public authorities or courts. In order to protect the private sector and its rights in an efficient and comprehensive manner, as defined in the separate Act, the law is about to divide the private sector and its rights and regulates in separate chapters the right to privacy, respect for family life, respect for home, respect for relationships. The rest of the home is the space where people can retreat from everyday bustle, everyone is entitled to the last rescue of the tired people, to quote a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2016, in which they borrow this term from the US Supreme Court. The quietness of the home ensures the development of private and family life and the free and full living of the private sector. In order to respect this, everyone's home as their private life and family life has increased protection. If we manage to clear public debate of personal and unimportant speech, it will increase the quality of political culture, and this will ultimately be reflected in the strengthening of public confidence in the state and the branches of power. Hopefully, the proposals will lead to the development of a single Judaica that will develop more and more areas of privacy protection and will result in the predictability of fundamental rights, the right to privacy, freedom of expression and the exercise of the right to assembly. Dear Parliament, The other proposal before Parliament, however, seeks to renew existing legislation, the importance of which cannot be exaggerated. Quoting from Tamás Vécsey's article in 1884, the importance of assembly takes precedence in indirect democracies, where the people leave the decisive decision to the elected ones. The press and the assembly are the spaces in which voters can comment and in which opinions can be expressed by the senders, the principals, and even those outside the censor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, the reason for the renewal of the regulation cannot be discussed, as the Constitutional Court already stressed in 2008:. In particular, the legislator must consider the extent to which it is appropriate to amend and supplement the provisions of the Assembly Act in order to prevent abuses and to reduce the difficulties in applying the law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The development of the regulation of the Hungarian assembly law was fundamentally determined by the futile desire for modern legislation. For nearly a century and a half, the legislator covered the public assemblies, rather than the fundamental rights approach, in a partial and only regulatory way. How difficult the current government is to regulate the right of assembly is to show that in 1868 the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice drew up a draft law on the right of association and assembly, but the government did not finally submit it to Parliament. In the 1880s it was even disputed that there was any general assembly legislation at all in force in Hungary. Towards the end of the World War, on 24 March 1945, the Minister of Interior of the Temporary National Government issued the 5.159/1945 on the announcement of the meetings. Decree No. BM, which, for reasons unknown to date, but until 1988, was in force until the date of entry into force of the Assembly Act on 24 January 1989. [[21.40]] The introductory part of Act I of 1946 on the State Form of Hungary declared the right of assembly as a natural and inalienable right of citizens, XX of 1949 on the Constitution of the Hungarian People's Republic. According to law, the right of assembly had to comply with the interests of the workers, the people after 1972. However, there is no doubt that these provisions have not been applied in practice even after our accession to international conventions. Chapter III of 1989 on the right of assembly a legend was built around the law, most of which were probably never true. The role of the current regulation in the peaceful change of regime is undisputed, but it is also a virtue in itself that this was Hungary's first legislative and national assembly legislation. It is a common mistake that the Assembly Act was born as a classic system-changer law as a result of the National Round Table negotiations, whereas the last Parliament of the Party State accepted it months before the National Round Table was established. It is clear from the Parliamentary Diary that apart from the Minister of Justice Kálmán Kulcsár presenting fundamental rights aspects in his expoze, there were very few speakers in the debate who did not regard the proposal as a question of power technology or of law enforcement. When the Assembly Act was adopted, it was neither modern nor followed international standards nor any other pattern of rule of law, but it has now become a reality in all respects. It served nearly three decades, fulfilling its historic role. During this time, he has undergone several minor modifications. Where the Constitutional Court annulled some of its provisions, and where the Parliament adopted the amendments called technical amendments. Its application, however, or rather, became increasingly difficult, especially since the early 2000s, there have been serious challenges for law enforcement. Who would not remember the demonstrations in autumn 2006, political and legal debates following the violence of the authorities, or the uncertainty about spontaneous and urgent meetings. It recorded the nature of the ultima ratio in relation to the dissolution of the ban on the assembly and stated that the assembly law had two grounds for prohibition: if the smooth functioning of the public representation bodies or courts would be seriously compromised or if transport could not be ensured by any other route. As a result, the general limits may be the basis for the dissolution of the assembly, but there can be no prior limits to its holding. The practice of the Court and the Constitutional Court interpreted the grounds for prohibition as inapplicable, essentially eliminated, and the practice of the courts eventually became fragmented and inconsistent. There have been cases where the same reporter repeatedly reported a protest on the same agenda, on the same quiet street, and after a while the police began to forbid it. Despite the same announcements and police decisions, the court has made several decisions. At times, he considered the ban to be a proportionate restriction, at other times annulled the decision, but also ordered the police to proceed with a new procedure. He once assessed the number of events on the same subject that the notifier had previously held, and this could not be taken into account. The Constitutional Court also found that there was a lack of constitutionalism in two decisions. The Constitutional Court also stated that the reasons for a decision prohibiting a meeting should state that the practitioners have taken into account the possibilities of a less restrictive restriction than the prohibition. However, the current regulation is comparable to a two-way switch, the police either acknowledge the announcement or prohibit the meeting, there is no third version. Even if the requirements in the practice of the Constitutional Court have not been annulled, the Assembly Act cannot comply, its full review has become inevitable. In the codification process, we made a wide-ranging international legal comparison, and in addition to the members of the European Union, we examined in detail the assembly legislation of Norway and Switzerland. We have processed domestic judicial and constitutional practice, ombudsman case law and recommendations that have not been complied with, and we have also taken into account the opinion of the Curia case-law analysis group. Both the relevant international treaties and the assembly regulation of European states generally define a direct, disproportionate and unnecessary risk of public security and public order as grounds for banning them. The regulation of the existing assembly law is considered to be unicical because of the arbitrary nature of two grounds for prohibition of direct, disproportionate and unnecessary harm to public order, but does not respond to any other situation which is as serious as public order or public security. We can't find a similar regulatory solution in a European state. The Casuistic tax-based regulatory model is a false guarantee, the experience of law enforcement over the past 29 years, and the changes in direction on the interpretation of the grounds for banning just support the fact that their interpretation is not more predictable than public order clauses and the application of the related tests. In connection with the public order clause, two dilemmas arose during codification. On the one hand, it is necessary to refer to the fundamental rights system in any way in this context, and on the other hand, that it is necessary to give interpretation aid to the general clausulas. The answer to the first question following the decision of the Constitutional Court to establish a failure to comply with the fundamental law could not be doubted, despite the fact that the protection of the fundamental rights regime was included in the concept of public order by the practice of regulation and enforcement abroad. However, we had to take into account the decision of the Constitutional Court and, in the proposal, not only the right to the private sector, but also, in the event of conflicts between other fundamental rights and the fundamental right to assembly, the aspects of its dissolution and its procedural framework have been laid down. The Constitutional Court also ruled as an illegal omission that the Assembly Act did not regulate the establishment of legal provisions for the lifting of conflicts of fundamental rights which ensure the simultaneous enforcement of conflicting fundamental rights with the minimum possible restriction. The proposal also makes clear, in response to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, that the violation of the rights and freedoms of others can be found, in particular, if the invitation or assembly is capable of restricting the right to the protection of the private and family life of others, their home, human dignity, the dignity of the Hungarian nation, national, ethnic, racial or religious communities, or the right to freedom of movement, freedom of residence. We have considered a great deal of the need to provide an interpretational aid for the clause. We finally gave a positive answer because, so far, Hungary has not developed a system of criteria to determine whether a particular phenomenon endangers public security or public order, or whether it is a violation of the rights and freedoms of others. This crutch cannot be interpreted alone, but only in conjunction with the generator, i.e. in any case the resulting test must be carried out. Moreover, the police acting as the assembly authority have the possibility to apply less restrictive restrictions than the prohibition, as set out in the German legislation and by the Constitutional Court, and thus to eliminate disproportionateness. With this prior restriction, the ban will indeed become an ultima ratio. The government's position has always been clear on totalitarian ideologies and systems, so we protect the memory of victims of inhumane crimes committed under the rule of the national socialist or communist dictatorship, and we do not allow it to be defiled. The Saxon-Anhalt assembly law contains a similar rule that protects the memory of the victims of the national socialist and communist dictatorship and the Soviet occupation, but the German federal, Bavarian and Lower Saxony assembly laws also protect the memory of the victims of the national socialist dictatorship. According to the Constitutional Court, the provisions of the Assembly Act do not cover the entire range of instruments dangerous to peaceful assembly and the right to life, and the Assembly Act does not provide for the cover-up of the face, which should in principle be prohibited, for example, if it is a means of nonverbal communication. In view of this, the proposal lays down rules on restrictions ensuring the peaceful nature of the meeting using foreign regulatory models and provides for a ban on protective equipment, uniforms and face cover. In practice, it appeared as a recurring problem that the organizers and leaders of the meeting were at times completely excluded from consulting and cooperating with the police. In this context, it is an important innovation of the proposal that the organizer or the head of the meeting and the police cooperate in organizing and holding the assembly, requiring continuous communication. Before the meeting, the organizer, while the leader, will be obliged to inform the police of all relevant issues, of risk factors, primarily through his on-site member. This duty of cooperation guarantees the smoothness of peacefulness and assembly. [[21.50]] The well-known deficiency of the law is that it does not lay down rules for competing meetings. The proposal is based on the solution used in the Finnish Assembly Act to resolve the conflict between competing meetings. The change of the rules of the notification serves to fulfil several previous recommendations of the Ombudsman. It is of a guarantee nature to determine how soon a meeting can be announced before the starting date. Today there are a number of locations in Budapest for which a meeting was announced for every national holiday for a hundred years in advance, and these were noted by the police for no reason of prohibition. The new legislation does not just seek to eliminate the legal contradictions that have been identified previously. Not only is it lifelike, but it also wants to be modern. The legislator should respond to new trends in the right of assembly, changes in the culture of demonstrations. The protests are no longer stenciled on leaflets, wallpapers, but on social media. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Let's wait and see.]] It's organized on Facebook and Twitter, mobilizing tens of thousands in a few hours. The proposal therefore sets the latest date for the notification by Bavarian model compared to the invitation to the meeting. Unnotified protests had to be dissolved according to the earlier text of the law, but the Constitutional Court stated in 2008 that the absence or delay of the notification alone cannot be a cause of dissolution. The proposal also allows and regulates, under certain conditions, the holding of so-called urgent and spontaneous meetings, following Bavarian patterns. I should also mention that the system of sanctions for the exercise of the right of peaceful assembly has so far been rather neglected. The proposal now contains all the rules to protect those exercising their right of assembly from external interference, but it also threatens abusive or arbitrary organizational behaviour with penalties. This system of penalties is essential for the State to fulfil its obligation to protect fundamental rights. Finally, I think it is important to point out that the proposal provides for a full judicial remedy against the decision of the police to prohibit or impose restrictions on the assembly and the disbanding of the assembly. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Mr. Patyi!]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the two legislative proposals presented in the Expoze, there are many common elements, behind which there are many similar considerations. Both seek a balance between public and private interests, between competing or conflicting rights. This balance is sensitive and dynamic. It cannot be recorded and set once and for all. After all, we are looking for a balance between rights and responsibility, between the interests of the individual and the interests of the community. I believe that the proposal has found it, not forever, but in a manner appropriate to the current situation and the challenges of the age. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the two legislative proposals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-07-03-286	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a maximum timeframe of 30-30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Judit Bertalan, the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mrs Czunyi. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-287	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In view of the late hour and the fact that the expoze has also shown that the government has drawn up a bill for the protection of both assembly and privacy, based on international practice and standards, in response to the anomalies already applied and detected during the application, I would not repeat the detailed points raised either in the expoze or in the general and detailed justification of the laws. Although I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in particular, the general and detailed justification of the right of assembly law provides a sufficient point of reference and a sufficient basis for proper interpretation of the bill, eliminating a number of doubts. Both legislative proposals before us concern fundamental rights. One of the first-generation political rights is the right of assembly, on which the Secretary of State gave not only a wide-ranging, but also a very thorough history of law, so it is very important that, on the basis of what has been introduced and experienced since then in good practice, due consideration should be given to the continuation of this right and the vulnerability and sensitivity of this right, while taking into account its dynamism. The other very important and sensitive issue is the Privacy Act. As stated in the expozee and in the explanatory statement of the law, it is necessary to regulate, under the protection of fundamental law following the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, the disputes arising from changes in online and virtual surfaces, as well as the occasional confusion between public and private spaces. As the Secretary of State has said, I would like to point out that every person has the right to privacy, security and peace at home. Both legislative proposals are also clear about the protection of privacy and protect the privacy of the home from harassment and the exercise of other freedoms should not prejudice the rights of others. I'd like to draw attention to four things. Both legislative proposals concern complex and complex issues and are therefore sensitive. The right of assembly referred to above as first generation political right is one of the most sensitive and the most sensitive legislative practices and the legal requirements so far did not resolve the competition or conflict between the two laws. These legislative proposals before us make proposals for solutions and attempt to do so. The second reason why we have these two legislative proposals before us is clearly the repeated speech and repeated call of the Constitutional Court on the government's obligation either in default or in some of the issues of legislation. The third reason why it is important that we have these two legislative proposals before us is that it can incorporate the experience of a practice that is now 30 years old, practically unbroken, from both the enforcement and the practice of the law, which is important for a fair and predictable regulation to be prepared. Based on the application and previous case-law, it seeks to resolve anomalies on the basis of experience, and it is made up by wording to clarify the situation for both employers, public authorities, courts and citizens wishing to exercise law and the right of assembly. The fourth is very important to take into account European models, practices and European international legal standards, model rules, which we have before us, following a wide-ranging and prudent analysis of these two legislative proposals. We are discussing it together, because, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out, the root of the two fundamental rights is so important to the two laws before us that our obligation to comply with the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law is not to conflict, but to deal with the two rights in parallel. It is necessary to draw up the two pieces of legislation, as clear rules are needed on the basis of the above mentioned environment and the changing political interests and values, and on the basis of society's view, on the basis of established case-law and application of law. Once again, the call of the Constitutional Court is clear, and I would like to repeat it again with reference to the fact that freedom cannot be exercised in violation of the freedom of others, whether we are talking about the right of assembly or the protection of privacy. Along the basis of the right of assembly at the time of the change of regime, we have a state-of-the-art, progressive and otherwise practice-based legislation on both fundamental rights. However, the complexity of the subject, its legal and political sensitivity are clearly visible, so the necessary international and domestic outlook and preliminary examination have been carried out. I would like to mention a few things without going through the justification of the law, although it is worth reading once again the detailed explanation, it guarantees a few things, and it clarifies some things in a way that clarifies the situation of law enforcement and practitioners. It also regulates the so-called rights of assembly: the right to participate, the organisation of meetings, the number of staff issues, it clarifies the content and other criteria which can be distinguished from practices protected by the right of assembly. It clarifies the conceptual elements of the meetings covered by the proposal, naming and naming the organisation process of the meeting, naming its organizer, providing for the responsibility of the organizer, distinguishing the organisation from the management of the meeting. [[22.00]] It therefore provides for a clear, well-known regulation for the application of the law, which will help us, and in the last 30 years we have experienced a number of people, and we can remember disputes in similar cases. It regulates the duties of the participants of the meeting, the protection of the right of peaceful assembly, the criteria for the security of the assembly and the security of the assembly, whether the question of police notification or police insurance or the concept of the presence of the weapon, or armed, to protect peaceful assembly, to clarify the mandatory elements of the notification, the procedural rules, the protection of the practitioner of fundamental rights, the protection against the effects of third parties, and the exposure to protection, including cases of dispersal and disbanding, disbanding and disbanding of the police, which, according to previous practice, was much more difficult and problematic for the legislators, as the Secretary of State referred to earlier. Thus, the two legislative proposals before us have laid down rules on fundamental rights based on case law, which are important and derived from the Fundamental Law, which can be adopted in order to answer the questions arising from the experience of the meetings that have taken place since the change of regime, and thus create an outstanding and modern assembly law at European level. It should be stressed that the proposal takes particular account of international human rights conventions, the practice of the Constitutional Court, the courts, the European Court of Human Rights, the results of international comparative analysis, and the recommendations of the Venice Commission, in general the general principles governing the right of assembly. By adopting these laws and these two laws before us, we can not only make our commitment to ourselves by amending the Fundamental Law, but also by establishing and continuing the development of our democratic rule of law, so I ask this House to support the Government's two proposals before us, the law on the right of assembly and the protection of privacy. On the part of the Fidesz fraction, we will support the two proposals before us. Thank you very much for your patience and your word, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-288	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard an incredible false talk here from the Secretary of State on the presentation of these two legislative proposals. But first, I would like to say a few words about the fact that I find it unacceptable that we are going to come to this point, the new regulation of such a democratic fundamental right, which completely, in all respects, changes the principles of the previous regulation, introduces a completely new structure, a new approach, and we need to start negotiating at 9:30 p.m. in the presence of 16 Members. Who sets these negotiations at such a time, and of course the interest is significantly lower, since the House has been sitting since 9 a.m., that is, we have already started the thirteenth class, this is unimaginable in a rule of law, a democratic parliament. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] I know, of course, it is not the Secretary of State and not the Members present, and it is not the President who brought this on, it is never here at night, thanks to whom it is due. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But tell him trees don't grow to the sky. So, these two billings are of no use to any of the pious human rights we've heard here in the last half hour and hour. A little, briefly, on the protection of privacy, and then on the draft legislation which is more racial and democratic than this. There is no person in Hungary who is not happy about the protection of privacy being protected as in this proposal. If we didn't know the history and didn't know the processes that were actually about the fear of the privacy of the Fidesz leaders, and not the protection of the privacy, family, peace and home of all Hungarian people, then we could say that there is no need to debate, that we are already voting in favour of this legislation. We are only absolutely sure that this is again the legislation for the privileged, because the practice will prove that there are citizens 1 and 2, citizens 1 that we have to protect in all respects, and the 2s have to accept that someone is speaking to them at all, and otherwise it is not certain that privacy is as important for the 2s as it is for the 1s. We are well aware that those spontaneous or pre-arranged protests in the homes of family houses and politicians have indicated this intention. We also know that no politician's family member really has anything to do with the fact that the politician is working in a way that creates negative emotions in part of the public, and therefore uses this tool. There is not a single politician who feels that the family of the leading politician should benefit from these disadvantages; this is natural, but Hungarian society is not a protesting society; Hungarian society is not equipped to insult the privacy of its fellow human being. Hungarian society is an extremely peaceful society in international comparison, and I think it is a very peaceful society. So while in France there are hundreds of thousands of protests because of the smallest government measures, which are virtually below the threshold, there are hundreds of them in Hungary. I therefore think that there could not be an indication of the government that the situation of Hungarian society at the moment was ripe to begin to modify certain, indeed, fundamental rights with a rhetoric that we have just heard from the Secretary of State. I always remember that Imre Steindl has done an incredible job, because these great words that he has introduced these two laws are not real, it is simply a deception, a deception, and behind it is that the leader or someone has ordered these rules, and this is not about the simple society and not about the will of the people or the interests of the people, but about the interests of a narrow political elite. I do not understand why this privacy package should be regulated in a new law. There is no sentence in this proposal that does not fit in the civil code. The Civil Code is the law governing the property and personal relationship of persons, and in this proposal, about one in three sentences reads as "Ptk," by the way. these provisions and those provisions shall apply. What is written in this document is also regulated in the Civil Code. Now, is it going to be that if someone's personal life is violated, then the judge has to apply two sets of laws? There is no legal consequence in this legislation other than civil liability. There are no violations, no criminal consequences, and there are civil-law consequences, which are otherwise regulated in the Civil Code as legal consequences that violate personal rights. I do not understand why this package of legislation could not be beautifully applied to the book of the Civil Code, where personal rights are negotiated, supplemented, and supplemented beautifully by the following sections. Or did the leader say that this requires a separate law, because it is such a symbolic thing that there will be privacy protection in Hungary? Well, who wouldn't be happy about that? ! But why do you have to make a completely separate law for that? I would be so pleased if the Secretary of State could answer this question of law-dogmatics and explain why it is necessary to work with double laws on homogeneous living conditions. Because the protection of privacy is, by the way, the protection of personal rights. We see, and I call here the content of Minister Trocsányi's 2014 and 2018 ministerial hearings, on both occasions he said that he was striving and doing everything he could to train those involved in the legislative process at such a level that the legislative activity should be the highest level of legal activity, and since the legislation is completely different, it cannot be compared to our legislative work that we are doing, nor with the work of law practitioners, which tens of thousands of lawyers are doing, this requires a high level of knowledge, knowledge, training and attitude that he would like to introduce, because he feels, in practice, that he himself is missing. [[22.10]] Well, if anything, has this legislation once again shown that this ability is missing, because there is no way that at least two people in the ministry did not meet in the context of the fact that, on the basis of the legislative law, the content of this legislation, on the basis of its purpose, on the basis of the system of legal consequences, or on the basis of something, must this be applied to a separate law? Well, isn't there a place for that in the Civil Code? Then we put the judges once again in the position that if the text of this and the text of the Civil Code contain rules that are contrary to the same conditions of life or contain ambiguous rules, or if one is more lenient and the other is stricter, which should be applied? So I would ask the representatives of the honourable government to consider withdrawing this, and really, in the light of the legislative system, the hierarchy and the rights-dogmatics aspects, it is being handled and put in place, and then it could really be dealt with. But I'll get to the assembly bill. When I first read it, it occurred to me that it was a PhD student's fever that had been achieved this morning. Seriously. So, does one really mean that from Australia through Germany, the United States, England, Finland, and I don't know how many more countries have different legal systems, different living conditions, different social structures, different historical situations, different attitudes, different social dynamisms, each country's people, and one sentence of a judicial decision that otherwise contains or represents precedents is applied in our bill by making the text of this legislation in the light of international practice? ! This assembly law is not a modern law. This assembly law does not match the Hungarian people's souls, nor does it match the historical situation in which we live. This does not correspond in any way to the nature of the political activities of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian citizens, nor to the willingness of our society to assemble. In fact, this is all about the situation as a result of the amendment of the law on referendums, so that, if possible, no one in Hungary should appear and no one should gather. There's no question that's the point. And while one day my fellow Member, Mr Peter, was outraged when he said that he thought you were afraid, I must say that I too feel that they are afraid on the basis of this proposal. And I don't think they're afraid of what's going on today, because people don't go out on the streets, it's not typical at all, even though there are a lot of disgruntled people in our country because of certain characteristics of public relations, and they don't go out on the street. But you already know something that Hungarian people will have to go to the streets for some reason in the future. I think you're afraid of what you're going to do next, that you're going to have consequences, and the consequences of going out on the street for some reason. I'm asking the creator God not to have such a situation. But I'm very worried that whoever drafted this bill, or who met and said that we had to make this proposal, knows something that we don't know yet, but people certainly don't know. And I would very, very much like it to be revealed that this bill in this form was not generated by fear, but only by caution. The 1989 Act, which is currently in force, was presented a little longer by the Secretary of State. He even said that before the work of the Opposition Round Table was started, the Parliament voted for it at that time. But if we remember, because I was a graduate student at the time, so I followed the process very closely, over 80 percent of the Members of Parliament were present during the debate of that law. We are talking about a socialist parliament. A community where all but democratic fundamental rights were not the most important factor. Those people have given us that the most important core values of democratic relations, the environment of freedom of speech, assembly with such strong consensus and such a demonstration, are being made in this way at the dawn of the new system in order to reveal common intentions. And today, we are talking about the fact that Mr Secretary of State is performing a fantasticly democratic talk about what this law is all about, but in fact, it is neither democratic nor forward-looking in the content of the law, and its application is virtually doubtful. I'm gonna go into the details a little bit. It's almost 2:00. What's not in the section? The word "public area" is the word "public area." It's not in there. [[Noise, interruptions.]] I won't be long. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] It's not in there, it's not in public! So you can imagine telling the pattern situation that I'm opening my garden door to the corner, anyone can come in. So I put my garden open to the public, and people start coming in, and suddenly the passing car, the police car, it's like, "Oops, you can go in here." Let's see if they're having a political meeting. That's the thing. That's what's written in 2nd. This is where we start. This is the starting point for this legislation. So what's it gonna be, kids? We're not opening our doors. In the end, a policeman thinks we're having a meeting here, not announced, because I want you to show me what kind of friendly company hasn't scolded the system in the last eight years. I've never met one of those. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Regardless of party status.]] Regardless of party status. So now you're imagining the situation where we're talking, say, within an open garden gate, three, four of us are discussing the current, otherwise incompetent legislation that was voted, and then the policeman comes in and says, "Oops, you like to gather!" Who's the organizer? Who's in charge? Did you call it in? No. How do you forbid it? Well, you can ban it. It doesn't say that this is valid if this meeting is in public. It doesn't say that. Although it is about public space later in the legislation, it is only about how the assembly takes place in the public area. It is not about the fact that this is just a public meeting, it is just an example of this proposal. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Professional work!]] My apologies, this gathering is about people figuring out that we have something we don't like, we want to talk to each other somewhere, maybe show the public what we want. Well, if it's something, then it's a voluntary thing, the organization, what it's about, where we're gonna be, how many of us are gonna be, and the authorities are gonna tell us what kind of officials we're gonna have here, what are we gonna get together for? So has anyone seen in the world that at a meeting, either spontaneous or organized, which represents the fundamental rights of people, the authority will tell us what kind of actors it should be? The world hasn't heard that! And by the way, it says two people are meeting now. If two people meet, then one is the organizer and the other is the leader? And who's the hater? I'm sorry. I really am. I just can't imagine it. I have so much respect for my fellow pro-government lawyers in this room, you are truly excellent lawyers, there is no way that these doubts have not been raised in you. I'm sure you weren't involved in this. No way! So there's no way you guys were sitting at the table where this text was created, and where someone said it would be. [[22.20]] I deeply regret the fact that I have to confront you, whom I so admire and criticise this draft legislation. He says that I deny Communist and Nazi crimes, of course, not even by chance! There's no such thing as a meeting to talk about, and that's why they can't break us up. But who's gonna check that out, so don't be mad right now, but if, say, 100 people are involved, and in the middle of a group of 100 people, someone just says, "Heil Hitler!" What's the matter with you? Who's gonna notice that you can disband that? But really, in practice, let's try to put ourselves in the dynamics of this situation. Or it's just that if someone's standing up front and the police see him swinging an arm, it's okay, but if, say, in the middle of the group, someone starts saying that Stalin was the most amazing person in the world, then how will they know? Or is it only if there is a prior indication in advertising or correspondence that the event might be about glorification of such sins? I see as a very important element that the future administrative court already has a second case type. Last week he had his first case type, and it came down to the fact that the kind of case we read in the Fundamental Law is gathered, because last week he was the first, and now he's the second. Do you really like to think that people will be able to gather here and express their political opinions when such a new legal institution, which is alien to absolute life, is alien to the situation, is alien to the state of the soul of our society, and is actually going to work here at all, a new legal institution supervised and judged by a judicial system that is loyal to power, will it be possible for people to gather? It is late, I do not want to waste time, and we will explain in more detail in the committee in the detailed debate. I would only like to say one thing with great respect to everyone: don't rule if you have no honour; don't rule if you have no heart; and don't rule if you're not brave enough. That's all I want to say. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-03-290	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-291	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The right of assembly is a first generation political right under which everyone is entitled to attend peaceful meetings. Based on this sentence of the movement, the first adoption by the old Parliament of the III. on the right of assembly was adopted almost three decades ago as the basis for the change of regime. Law, which was then extremely forward-looking, especially following the rules against socialism in the previous 40 years. The Gytv. about three months before the founding of the Opposition Round Table and more than one year before the formation of the first freely elected Parliament, it entered into force on 24 January 1989. The Gytv. Since then, only minor clarifications have been made, typically linked to the use of other laws, for standardisation purposes. From this, only certain amendments to the law relating to accession to the European Union, repealing legal provisions and laying down certain legal provisions are included in Annex XXIX of 2004. Law was considered an exception. The Gytv. However, the most significant change in the text of Article 75/2008 is to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It was made by decision Ab, which destroyed the Gytv. 14. §2 of the Act requires the dissolution of non-notified meetings. Ladies and Gentlemen, Therefore, the Gytv is indisputable. Its age-long significance, however, has now become completely obsolete, and thanks to the extensive practice that has changed direction several times over the course of 29 years, it has become almost inapplicable today. The system of restrictions of assembly is the Gytv. the two grounds for prohibition known to him, the extensive judicial practice and the narrowing interpretation that goes beyond Gytv. need to be reviewed, since today, Gytv. It's almost completely empty. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the conclusion that judicial practice is completely unpredictable in this regard. Imagine, there is already an example that the same applicant's various statements of content were judged differently by the court. This absurdity was finally manifested in the fact that the Constitutional Court specifically called on the legislator in 2016 on the law to bring the criteria for the protection of the right of assembly and privacy into line. This was based on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, according to which freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly should not result in harm to the privacy, family life and home of others, i.e. the fact that freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly can be an external restriction. The right to private and family life and the right to respect the homes of others may be an external barrier to others. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/707 on the right of assembly The new legislative proposal No 1 builds on the German model, respecting and guaranteeing freedom of assembly, as well as modern regulation of assembly law in accordance with international standards. This bill, as I have already said, focuses on the violation of public security and public order and the rights and freedoms of others, based on German case law, in particular Bavarian case law, which thus appear not only as a ground for prohibition but also as a reason for disbanding it. The system of grounds for prohibition is complemented by an additional case, namely that it excludes meetings in locations and days which resemble victims of the national socialist or communist dictatorship in the event of certain conditions. This is a reason to ensure the memory of the victims and the rights of their relatives. An important difference in the bill is the existing Gytv. in relation to its provisions, that it does not regulate the scope of the meetings imposed from the entry into force of the Law on the right of assembly. The bill also clarifies the concepts of meetings, organizers, directors and directors, as well as their obligations in the case of the latter. The bill regulates the obligation to notify more precisely than the legislation in force, as well as requires the organisers to cooperate. It is an important innovation of the bill to define the obligations of the participants and to provide for the prohibition of disturbing the assembly, the concept and rules of competing meetings, the earliest date of notification of the meeting, and the prohibition of wearing uniforms, as well as the prohibition of appearing at the meeting armed or armed or in protective equipment. It is also an important novelty of the bill that, in order to ensure the order of the meetings, taking into account the fast and accessible access to the meeting, the police may also set up control points, which will be applicable if there is a direct risk that someone wishing to participate in the meeting armed or armed. In addition, it is important to point out that the proposal establishes new criminal code and non-compliance situations in order to preserve the peaceful nature of the meetings, which guarantee the enforcement of these new rules and guarantee effective deterrent force and action against those who disturb the meetings. [[22.30]] The bill therefore allows for the adoption of a assembly regulation that answers the practical questions raised by the experience of the meetings that have taken place since the change of regime. For this reason, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/707 on the right of assembly. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/706 on the protection of privacy. In line with the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, it guarantees that privacy is protected and that the rest of the home is protected against harassment. This means that the right to privacy belongs to all people and must also be respected in the free debate on public affairs. It should therefore be pointed out that both the public actor and the non-public actor have equal rights to privacy and the protection of the home. Free discussion of public affairs should not involve personal life, family life, and harm at home. In addition, in relation to communications or conduct outside the free discussion of public affairs, the public operator shall be entitled to the same protection as a non-public actor. In view of the fact that modern tools for information communication have also changed forms of communication, privacy protection covers both physical harassment and online harassment. The individual's dignity and right to privacy should also be guaranteed in the social media space. Therefore, the bill guarantees the individual the security of the private sphere in terms of content shared and published for private purposes. On this basis, the parliamentary faction of KDNP supports T/706. Law No. 1 is also adopted. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2018-07-03-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2018-07-03-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The law on the right of assembly is a law which has already been corrupted at the first letter, completely corrupted at the first sentence, because if we look at its contents, it should bear the title of the law on the right of assembly, not the law on the right of assembly, but the law on the abolition or immobilization of the right of assembly. And that is so, let me read to you in a moment (paragraph 1) which speaks very nicely. He says that everyone has the right to organise and participate in, together with others, demonstrations and marches without prior notification, peacefully and unarmed, with the exceptions set out in this Act: a meeting. That's a very nice sentence right here at the beginning. The problem is that the 24 paragraphs of the next nine pages discuss why and how kind voters and citizens cannot do so here in Hungary. To make a few questions or a few comments to this statement, and to do so, I would really like to look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply as to what the poet had in mind, or we would misinterpret it, but I will do so. One of the problems that many people have already touched on is that in the law currently in force, there is a clear taxative list of what this law does not apply. This may well be due to the fact that the concept of the assembly itself is missing from the law currently in force, while a definition has now been included here. Now let us leave it to me that I think it would answer the question, which has just been said, that family events, religious ceremonies, sports and other events were not subject to the law, because I believe that this definition can be arranged. But there is one point in this bill that I think is very lacking, and I do not think that the answer comes from this definition, and that has also excluded the assembly law from the scope of the electoral procedural law so far. We have campaigned all over the past period, and you, Minister of State, have been an individual candidate now, you know exactly how important it is for the election campaign that the assembly law is not in force during the election period, so election meetings or election campaign events are not the Gyvt. must be declared, implemented, ensured and the rest. I think that this is a pretty important guarantee rule that elections can be handled at all, because I don't think the police can handle it in a parliamentary election, by the way. This text doesn't show that you're... [[Dr. Pál Völner: From the electoral law.]] Yeah, but that's why I said I'd ask questions, and I might get an answer. If you say that's true, then I'd be happy to accept that, and I'll look into it. The second question is indeed the concept of a meeting, these two people. A public meeting with at least two persons to express their views in public matters, to which everyone is free to join. Help me figure it out, Mr. Secretary, that, for example, a municipal council meeting is now based on this meeting or not a meeting. Okay, I'm gonna circle a little. But what you do understand is that this is specifically in line with the board meeting where there is a public opinion, and by the way, anyone is free to join him, because all such bodies... I do not say it to Parliament because it is not possible to get in here, it is only theoretically public in this regard, but at least in many people, this has triggered doubts about public opinion with the participation of these two people, also from the point of view of the application of the law. Our next problem is to participate in a banned event as a violation. I'm asking you again from the point of view of law enforcement. The unlucky one, who, say, a Facebook or whatever invitation or whatever, as you mentioned, may not even be a flyer or a stencil machine, but we may be able to get there again to a meeting that he doesn't have any idea was banned, and he's going to personally violate the bill, and they're going to prosecute it anyway, so how? Threatening public order is my favorite part. You yourself said that every time a necessity and proportionality test has to be carried out for the enforcement of the law, because the legislator does not do so. You're telling me that in endangering public order, you write down an absolute rule of rubber, that you can be reasonable, I'm not going to say it out of my head. Help me, Mr. Secretary: Will Staff Sergeant Kovács carry out the necessary constitutionality and proportionality test every time? And if he doesn't succeed, will the administrative court of Patyi András help him to figure out whether he made the right decision or not? I think it's gonna be awful, and you know it. So the police enforcement staff cannot be burdened with such constitutionally absolutely incomprehensible rubber regulation, and I'm about to agree to what this quasi-rubber rule covers, and then it will be left to an unlucky acting police officer, which, by the way, will really be attacked in court to judge how long privacy or home protection expands on Shooting Surfers, and where it doesn't end, where the violation of the order of transport begins and ends. Now, I could say a lot of rubber rules, say, lex Putin, because that's a pretty objective rule in their new law at least, so if some high-ranking foreign colleague comes to the Prime Minister, then obviously you won't even be able to stand on the side of the road and say, let's say, we don't agree with his politics. We've seen the measures, say, when a Putin arrives in this country. It's obviously the same with the President of the United States, and everyone understands that, and I don't think he expects or expects you not to be able to give an opinion on his presence. I don't know, maybe Kim Jong-un will come, and that's why we had to put it in the bill, but I think it's ridiculous anyway. So the police have been able to make sure that protected persons are safe in Hungary, and therefore there is no need to restrict expression. It's a violation of traffic policy. Secretary of State, what doesn't violate the order of transport in a demonstration? If the two of you leave the sidewalk at the same time, it's a violation of traffic regulations, and if I understand correctly, that's going to be a fact. [[22.40]] So far, in the texts, it was said that it was, because it was also a handhold, but in the text currently in force, for example, a policeman who had to make a decision to do so clearly states otherwise, that there is no other way to ensure it. As a lawyer, we can understand the difference between the concept of "a violation of the order of transport" and the concept of "a failure to provide transport" in any other way. Let's say a hundred thousand-dollar protest to keep the traffic under control, Mr. Secretary? And then you will never again be able to organize a mass demonstration in Hungary, say, where they march on the streets? Is that the intention in this regard? Because what's written here, Mr. Secretary... [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Okay, well, then I'm glad that's not the intention, but what's written here, let's just say it's gonna get us closer to that. Here's to restrict the privacy, home, freedom, free movement of others. Really, someone should draw me a demonstration, demonstration, or migration that does not in any way restrict the privacy, home, or freedom of others. In the beginning, what kind of protest could be held, let's say, in the middle of the capital, so that it's pushed away without restricting the privacy, home and free movement of others? Of course, it limits it, that's what it's all about. And when you spoke about the new balance that you tried to hit, Mr. Secretary, you failed to achieve this new balance, this is not a balance. This is a complete restriction on freedom of expression and assembly, whether in terms of privacy, home or free movement, but also for transport reasons. It is the same to disrupt the functioning of the courts. It's been a serious threat so far, and everyone understands the difference. What doesn't bother the court? If ten people stand under the window and start yelling, I don't know, anything they don't like, it could interfere with the functioning of the court. The serious threat is obviously about the effective threat to the functioning of the court by saying, for example, who can't go in or who can't go in or who has to stay in court. Obviously, this is a huge difference, yes, Mr Secretary, that cannot be allowed, but it can be allowed to go to court and say that you do not agree with something, or in any way you will give your opinion on specific matters. That means you can't do it anyway. Distribution is also a violation of the rights and freedoms of others, so, zutty: the violation of the rights and freedoms of others. Once again, what mass demonstration doesn't involve harming others, say, their freedom or their rights? Who's gonna decide that? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Unnecessary and disproportionately!]] I understand that, Mr. Secretary, but it will be up to the police on the ground to decide that, obviously not at a video conference, the Presidential Cabinet of the Administrative Court will be watching all the protests. And let's leave it in Budapest, but think about it a little bit as a police politician, how they will deal with these issues in the countryside, in a small town, in a village or in a rural town, on the basis of these, let's say, unprepared or prepared police officers, law enforcement officers, the authorities! What is forward-looking and, by the way, if only that were in it, in addition to the current text of the law, even as it is, we would vote for it, that is three things, not too long: the institution of the queue is finally being settled, that is quite all right, there were a lot of problems; the denial of Nazi and communist crimes as a fundamental prohibition, it is absolutely fine here in the middle of Central Europe. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel:]] I'm arguing with that, it's all right with both of them. And the uniformed marching and the abuse of it. We know exactly what kind of demonstrations we're dealing with, especially in the Castle, it's such a fantastic come-and-go; it's perfectly fine. Here, unfortunately, I have to finish the things that are in order in this bill. All in all, we do have a problem, and I do not claim that if someone announces a demonstration this fall, then these otherwise tactical nuclear bombs in these rubber rules will be launched by you, but this bill is perfectly suited to ban or disband any demonstration at any time, otherwise it will be agreed with the letter of this law. And it's not a assembly law from now on, it's not the citizens' permissions to assemble. This records, as the right-hand speaker before me has said, that otherwise the limits should be drawn at the convenience of power, when it can be demonstrated and when not. It is a huge step backwards from the text currently in force in all respects. To the Act on the Protection of Privacy, allow me to read very simply only the beginning of the material described by an external expert, and I think it will say everything, and this is our opinion, too, we absolutely share:.The bill, if the proposal was adopted, would add another element to the Frankenstein State system in Orbán. The essence of this is to move examples from the practice of foreign countries that reduce the general level of protection of fundamental rights, in line with the interests of the policy, using all representatives of state power to do so. From a codification point of view, this bill is one, if not the worst, of the Orbán governments period. Its objective is clearly to protect the interests of the power practitioners and to further reduce the remaining, extremely limited freedom of speech. The bill does not give any reason at all why new and unpredictable tools should be added to existing legal protection instruments, civil, administrative and criminal law instruments, which bleed from a thousand wounds. Although, according to the preamble to the bill, the adoption of the law is subject to the new Article VI of the Fundamental Law. It is in line with the practice of the Constitutional Court and the general fundamental rights protection test, but the only reality of this is that the proposal is the new basic law provision, as set out in Article VI. The Council shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In relation to this law, I think it is no longer worth talking about. Maybe I'd give myself one sentence: there'll be competing laws. I have also seen the Secretary of State react when the former speaker, opposition Member, said that the judge will not be able to decide which law should apply; there are times when a judge has to apply a lot of laws. It can't be when two laws on the same subject have to be applied. Competitive laws, it's unconstitutional the way it is, you've been combing everything together. It's late hour, and I still don't say the word we say outside the walls of the House, but let's just say that they've taken everything they've found and made it about the same quality. We really need to fear that this will also be a rubber rule that the appropriate court will always interpret in the right way. We absolutely object to the adoption of this bill, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-07-03-294	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition, is coming. Here.
u2018-07-03-295	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It sounds very nice when the government talks about privacy and home protection. The problem is that these laws are not about that, they are not about protecting the law, they are again restricting the law. These bill proposals are one of the proposals of the law on the palate, which aims to prevent criticism of your policy and person from being able to use effectively the civil liberties whose purpose is to restrict and control power. Perhaps the congresswoman here said that this is a complex and sensitive subject. This probably explains why it takes place at such a late hour: they probably put the 18th circle on it so that we do not disturb the youth on this subject. But if this is really complex and sensitive, why not treat it as a complex, sensitive bill concerning fundamental rights and the conflict of fundamental rights? Why wasn't there a fair settlement? How this otherwise supposedly came up, you think it's a brilliant proposal again in a week, since the amendment to the basic law was adopted about a week before the submission. I don't even think that if the President of the Republic had returned the amendment to the basic law, then how much work would have been wasted. In other words, I must say once again that you have not sought consensus on this matter, but have sought to forcefully push through another regulation, of course you will find a foreign example of everything. This is a bit like pouring French wine, say, with Belgian beer, and then making it wild with some good Hungarian brandy. Tell our dear listeners not to try it at home. [[22.50]] In other words, it is not possible to highlight elements independent of certain legal systems and to combine them with each other. All legal elements only make sense in a given legal system, in accordance with other legal rules and guarantees. But if you claim that the fundamental and prudent examination of this bill has been carried out, in accordance with fundamental rights and international law, then not only in accordance with the principles of the Venice Commission, but also in your view, send it to the Venice Commission, asking this authority to give its opinion on it. I can hardly believe that this extremely urgent legislation will last a few months. As far as the right of assembly is concerned, it is indeed the case that we are talking about a regulation that was born a long time ago, perhaps in many ways past or at least in many ways with problems. But, as the Member said, there is also an unbroken case-law which has, by the way, established the basic rules under which the right of assembly can be exercised. Therefore, it is not necessarily a mistake to regulate this, but there is no urgency that this procedure would require. So far, the courts have considered the fundamental rights competing with each other, taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, and on this basis the domestic case law on the right of assembly has evolved. Now, however, they are seeking to take this right out of the hands of the courts and to set by law the order of importance of competing fundamental rights, and in this, that, not always, freedoms will be left behind in these comparisons, let us say, the rights to express political opinions. For example, although it is said that there is no need to announce a protest, because the fundamental right, immediately in the next paragraph or two later, requires that protests not only be announced, but they must be announced before the announcement, so that they can live with enough pre-censorry so that they can no longer organise the protests. While it is quite obvious that a protest could only be banned in an exceptional case, they give the police a very wide range of powers to prohibit protests in advance. You have mentioned, Congressman, I will not analyse it long enough, it is quite obvious that there is a restriction on the order of transport, or that there is a rubber rule that can be drawn upon any protest, any assembly, which gives a blank cheque to the police and then, in the case of a legal review, to the administrative court led by the gentleman we have spoken of a few times today. A particularly dangerous rule is that the organizers are threatened with sanctions, and in very many cases, this is how they try to discourage the organizers from taking the liberty of organizing a protest. And that's a wonderful rule, which requires very widespread punishment for interrupting meetings. I feel that Mr. Prime Minister's ear is offended by the whistling he sometimes hears at certain events. He seems to have sent word that he would hang the Lord Major, if anything bothered him, and that you would meet this sublime need. So, in conclusion, I am not going to go into any further rules, this bill is full of rubber rules that basically give the police and, more broadly, the state the pleasure of being able to gather, who can and where to assemble. So, according to the rules, you can gather around in the wilderness or in the middle of Lake Balaton, because there is no harm to the order of transport, except for the crossing ship. And, of course, there it is not suitable for restricting the right to disturb the privacy of others or to free movement, but there it is, of course, silently and quietly, so as not to disturb you. We believe that it is important, of course, to protect homes, to protect privacy, but not to restrict freedom of assembly. The situation is similar, and I do not want to analyse this regulation very long, either, in relation to privacy. In fact, many of the rules of the Privacy Act do not provide for normative regulation. These are types of good wishes that would feel good in a preamble, but otherwise there are little or no concrete legal consequences. However, there is a specific legislative consequence of the rules on public affairs and the protection of privacy. These rules mean that the honourable members of the lord's family should not be touched by the press or by the public, speak of them, and mention their affairs, so that the affairs of the son-in-law, wives, girlfriends and children on their own feet cannot be brought up, even when these matters are clearly related to public affairs. Have we seen how the Deputy Prime Minister, for example, says that? I know you've considered your gifted hunt to be a private matter, and you didn't want to talk about it and make a statement about it, you didn't want to put it in your private property statement. With this regulation, they open wide space for this type of apology, open wide space for referring to the protection of privacy against public opinion in a number of cases which are in fact in breach of the public interest, in corruption that surrounds your whole world. Ladies and gentlemen, All in all, I must say that these bills are designed to create an uncertain situation, to strengthen the party state instead of the rule of law, so that you do not have to face public opinion or demonstrations. But I have to tell you, this isn't gonna work. If people are fed up with you, they will find a way to express this, no matter how they try to restrict the exercise of freedoms by law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-296	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker of the LMP is coming. Here.
u2018-07-03-297	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think that Congressman Bajkai came back just in time. You have just criticised the fact that there is not enough concrete opposition to the points of the bill. I think we can agree that in the last hour, nothing has been said but specific points, specific questions that we are obviously looking for from a Member or Secretary of State, where appropriate. Since it is almost 11 a.m., and I do not wish to make the mistake of repeating the thoughts of the speakers before me, I would also like to continue to list the specific points and to clarify Mr State Secretary, who intervened with Mr Bellozó, that we are dealing with disproportionate restrictions. Well, we can conclude that this bill is, in effect, a serious, unjustified violation and a restriction on the right of assembly. This has been explained in detail by my fellow Members. I'm trying to enlighten myself with some specific examples. My fellow Members have asked me questions about the violation of the order of transport. I'd like to point out that the 13th. It can be read precisely that the grounds for prohibiting the assembly include the fact that public order is also threatened by the fact that the invitation or assembly involves a violation of the order of transport. It does not include disproportionate harm or disproportionate restriction; it is also a violation of the order of transport. Similarly, point 4 states that the meeting is capable of violating the right to the protection of the private and family lives of others. There is no disproportionate restriction or violation. So these are clearly wordings in the law that specifically exclude the possibility of gathering, organising demonstrations. I am looking for a concrete answer to the question of how to organise a demonstration that is not at all in violation of the order of transport. By the way, my fellow Member Arató proved a little optimistic, and I do not think that the mere can be seen as an extreme example, and I think that this law even precludes the mere being shown. But let's continue with the specific problems. Nor can a meeting be held in a private area open to public traffic. Then is it not appropriate, where appropriate, to organise a demonstration in front of a large department store by melon producers? I think there are some public affairs that are related to the activity of a private owner, and why not organise a meeting in a private area open to public traffic. That's an amazing restriction. But consider the following example. According to the Assembly Act, the organizer of the assembly will be retorted if the person certified by the directors as a journalist is excluded from the meeting. How does that person prove to be a journalist? There is no common practice for this. How can the organizer of the meeting determine that the person is a journalist? But it's a reprisal or a penalty if you rule it out from the rally. There are very serious sanctions for disrupting the event. What exactly does interrupting mean? Whistle? Fragment? Anything else? How to disrupt a protest, how to define exactly how to disrupt the protest? Or are you interrupting the protest, whistling, or are you raising the mood as a part of the protest, who whistles, or is making some kind of noise? [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] [[23.00]] Similarly, a person who attends an event that has been banned would be punished by an offence. Now someone's free to join a meeting, a gathering, how do you know it's been banned or not banned? How can someone who has not been informed that that protest has been banned, but who has freely joined the demonstration and assembly? It is also a rubber rule, a rule that clearly penalises those who exercise the most important right. So it is our view, too, that this assembly law is completely inadequate to guarantee this one of the most important rights. To add, it wasn't a surprise at all. In previous debates, it was said that it was a surprise to the opposition or the press that such a law would be brought before the Parliament. It wasn't a surprise at all. One can also agree that it was a timely and important task to review and amend the assembly law, to create a new assembly law. So this was no surprise in itself, but you could not carry out this task properly, this law is completely inadequate to guarantee the rights set out in the declaration of objectives and to carry out this task. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-298	I welcome once again my fellow Members this late at night. I now give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2018-07-03-299	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Late hour, I'm trying to keep it short. In the first round, it's a tribute to the previous law that there will be a meeting here tomorrow at the Ministry of Justice. I hope it's not like the last meeting we went to about Stop Soros, and we said that we didn't support illegal immigration, and then after me, the Fidesz congressman in the camera said that we supported him. We hope that there will be a more constructive consultation. Not to repeat my fellow Members, because I agree to 100% of what they have raised, I would like to ask you some new questions that they have not asked. With regard to privacy, it is clear that family members should not be involved in political conflicts. We agree that it is not good to classify family members and bring them to this level. What we need to see, however, is that a family member should also know that if he receives an order, if he receives an economic advantage, he will cross the line where he is no longer a public figure, because he will gain an advantage through his political relations. Obviously, there's a balance to be found here. The problem with the bill is that it says that private matters are not included in the free debate on public affairs. Here is my question, and I hope that Mr Secretary of State will be able to answer that after that, let's say, an investigative journalist will reveal to the various politicians, whether they are opposition politicians, how their family members have become rich, what kind of application they have won, or where the politician has gone on vacation, what has he gone on vacation from, then that includes this circle. In addition, if I read the law correctly, the politicians can sue here, and the court may even charge the politician. With this, the press agencies risk writing something, and then they get a press case on their necks. Turning to the right of assembly, we also think, overall, that the bill is too restrictive, linked to the bill on the protection of privacy, there is also a broad interpretation of the bill. Here you give the police the power to decide, here, as in the right to privacy, where freedom of expression and freedom of the press are limited, here the right to assembly is restricted by the bill. We also believe that there are two very critical parts of the bill, endangering public order and harming the order of transport. Then my questions are that public order is threatened, let's say, by protesting the Liget Project at City Park, we're organizing a protest. Or, for example, does the 2006 protests in front of Parliament threaten public order under this law? Or would it harm the order of transport, say, a CEU protest, a protest against the Internet, or a peace procession? If you can answer these questions, I thank you. I wrote the whistle, too. So there is a part in it where the event cannot be interrupted in particular, whether this whistle is allowed, and what my fellow Members have already mentioned is that it punishes the organisers unduly, for example, after a meeting the authority can charge up to HUF 50,000 for cleaning fees. This too, I think, is unjustified. I'd like to join in on those proposed by Congressman Loran the Crusade. If someone attends an event that has been banned, but he doesn't know it, it would be more worthwhile to put it in the bill, that if, despite informing the police, the person refuses to leave the scene, then he could be held accountable. There are good directions to the bill, which Mr. Harangozó also mentioned, if announced at a time, at a location, then order will take place here. In other words, not only does the police ban the event, but it provides alternative opportunities. These weren't before, were they? All in all, I don't understand why this is so urgent. We're not being chased here by the Tartar in this situation. By the way, I think that the police have done very professionally in recent years during the demonstrations so far, and have provided these locations well. I do not understand the urgency, if there had been unorganized demonstrations or demonstrations here, I would understand, but not like this, in this case. I also believe that we will not be able to vote for this bill in this form. I should think about it, but I'm curious about the Secretary of State's answers. Thank you for the floor.
u2018-07-03-300	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. The first independent Member who has applied for may now speak. So I give the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2018-07-03-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You are amending one of the last regulations that still hold itself in 1989, and you are destroying the remaining bastion of democracy and the rule of law so far. In addition, they chose a particularly harmful game to communicate with this. Now that Hungarian social development has been rejected for a long time, all possible social groups have already been quarreled with, they are now doing the same with two fundamental rights and two fundamental values, the sacrament of privacy and the freedom of assembly. They cannot be enforced at each other's expense. I believe that this has already been revealed to you from the benches of opposition speakers. After you have amended the granite Fundamental Law seven times in such a way that it cannot be shown in front of politicians' houses, you now give the authorities an opportunity to prevent any protest. If a government cannot express its opinion only illegally on the protection of privacy, then the Government of Viktor Orbán. The majority of governments created by Fidesz and KDNP are seriously violating the sanctity of privacy in the case of masses living in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, You are trying to force your own image of the world and family on the whole of society, with this intention to form an education policy, with this intention to form the Fundamental Law, and at the moment you intend to restrict the freedom of assembly on this basis. In this way they form a family support system, thus forming various regulations affecting social transfers. It is not possible for you to interfere freely in the privacy of others, while your private life is considered so sacred that you also restrict the fundamental rights of others. Moreover, the Hungarian government does not hesitate to expel others on the basis of their religion. Two thirds of them are obviously motivated by their fear of violating their own privacy by creating a new regulation. [[23.10]] But the question arises: when Viktor Orbán attacks the institution of political correctness with a great deal of force, he does not think about playing with fire. The Prime Minister regularly breaks unwritten rules between social groups and political communities, which would be the property of a normally functioning democracy. It is the basis of a rule of law, a society that lives in peace with itself and others, to respect the sanctity of another's private life. The government, the political side that recognizes only the sanctity of its own private life while digging into the privacy of the masses, is not worthy of leading a European country. Mr. Prime Minister, Although he's not here at this late hour. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, They would have liked to have been fair, in which case they should not be afraid of the citizens of their own country. Thank you for listening.
u2018-07-03-302	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2018-07-03-303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Without the need for completeness, I would like to answer only a few questions that have been raised, and then, of course, we can continue. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm complained about why this was not regulated in the Civil Code in connection with the proposal for a private policy. It was also mentioned in the expoze itself that this is a summary of the protection of privacy that constitutes a bridge between other laws, such as the info law or the civil code and the Fundamental Law. In this sense, it is a summary of the completeness of these rights, so we may be able to shed light on why it was necessary. The equality before the law has said that there will be first and second-class citizens whose privacy he protects. Everyone in legal proceedings is entitled to the same protection, so I would like to reassure you of that, Congresswoman. It has been said for many reasons why the law is here before this House. The Constitutional Court has a decision in 2016, the deadline for which has expired, according to which the House must establish rules to prevent conflict-of-law conflicts. I believe that the law will comply. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who have raised questions about certain paragraphs, to refer to the explanation section, to regulate and explain at commentary level both international examples and interpretation issues. But to get involved in some of them, sometimes it was said in the order of transport that disproportionateness, necessity, banned by the police, did not prohibit it. It is obvious that it can be considered that if, for example, a demonstration on a bridge, say, 8 people want to close the Elizabeth Bridge, it is disproportionate and it also violates public order. While there is a 30,000 demonstration announced, it is obvious that it will be allowed to do so, because this would be a proportionate burden compared to what it represents in the public interest. I do not want to talk about private property and other matters, in the launch of the law itself, as Congressman Bellozó rightly pointed out, for the purposes of expressing his opinion; the two people also said why they were two. One main must not be involved in the right of assembly, at least two must be present. So this is the minimum law that could be determined to open the gates as wide as possible so that there is no debate about why 12 people or why 20 people or why 3 people are not. I believe that this has been the most optimal way to put this from the point of view of criticism. With regard to sanctions, when it comes to bans, the police will make it public when such an event is banned. Obviously, there is a call for leave on the spot, and if everyone continues to endure after that, sanctions may be imposed and the infringement procedure initiated. There's an investigative journalist here. When it comes to tenders and public procurement, these are still public data. So, basically, it takes a kind of data collection, and it doesn't take that much to investigate. It is clear that public data are available, and they are not a secret, but are still available, and can be made public when publishing applications or the results of public procurement. There have been several criticisms of which I do not want to respond in detail, because we do not want to engage in such a political debate, obviously we will not agree on this. In relation to the announcements: you can announce an event virtually three months before, and 48 hours before, so you have time to check with the police. In that part, I would defend the police that these announcements have been handled practically professionally, as has been said in the recognition. I don't think the exercise is gonna change that much. In fact, this law is also a codification of the established practice, which has been the case in recent years, so that it is not done on a normal basis. Once again, I would refer back to the Constitutional Court's decision, which required this legislative representation. I very much hope that if there are specific professional questions for tomorrow's seven-party negotiator if there is not time to go through all of them due to the shortness of time, our colleagues, our experts will be able to give you a detailed answer, but I will continue to recommend the justification of the law. If it's still necessary, then of course I'd be happy to answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-304	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2018-07-03-305	Mr President, Dear House, I must say that in addition to the general system criticism, there is a point that has already been affected by representatives of several parties. And this is the 14th. The content of the article, the so-called communist and Nazi crimes denial form of the event. Communist crimes, of course, and no other kind of crime is disputed. No one wants the events that live on communism to take place in Hungary. I'm the one who's even bothered by the fact that hats and hats decorated with various symbols of authoritarianism on Váci Street can be bought in the middle of the tourist zone. I think it's ruining the country's image, by the way. I would like to say that the uncouth form of legislation that lies before us, which prejudicates that, in the case of an event, if you think this is at risk, it can be banned or eliminated, is quite amazing. I understand that many people are associating with the Buda Castle here, and I take the problem from the other side, simple and harmless traditional events from the time of the booking of the 20th century. It can simply be prohibited for a hundred years on the basis of this uncouth legislation. This formula is quite simply unnecessary, because if such a phenomenon arises, which you are terrified of, then the following must be done: the infringer must be highlighted, the event may be disbanded if appropriate. Thus, the current legal system also has the tools that could be used, but this legislation based on prejudication, based on quite amazing assumptions, is not worthy of the 21st century. It reminds us of a century and an era that has already passed, the sins of which you do not want to advertise, but in terms of communism, we can indeed remember similar legislative formulas. And that's far from my point of view. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-03-306	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2018-07-03-307	Mr President, Dear House, After all, in a somewhat unusual way, I am obliged to respond to the words of the Member who has just spoken, because we believe that he has just found the only part of the bill that is more or less in order. To be honest, I do not understand very well that, in the case of traditional events starting from the occupation of the country, the recall of the Anjou at the time is part of the denial of the crimes of the Nazi or communist regime or of the violation of the memory of the victims. I think it would be worth considering this for Congressman and letting go of this slice of Jobbik's glorious-glorious past now. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Stop fooling around!]] However, what the Secretary of State says is more important than that. He says that there is still a working practice today to know what a proportionate obstacle to traffic is, and he set an excellent example. You know, the courts, if there's a lawsuit, what is public interest data and what is not, at the very least, you won't issue it in spite of the court's judgment. Then the question is why we need regulation. 'Cause what's okay doesn't have to be fixed. The problem is that we are all afraid that if there is a regulation here, in which these fundamental rights will be a bit of a struggle, a bit of a piece of equipment, it will not actually be a confirmation of the case-law. [[23.20]] But we may be wrong about that, but the only way we would have done that was not to discuss it after the general debate; the way was that there might have been a professional debate about this in advance, where even civil society organisations might be invited. So, if there's anything right about this thing. Look, Mr Secretary of State, and look, fellow Members, these things can be discussed. But to be honest, if, let's just say, the Constitutional Court's resolution in 2008 lasted ten years... [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] But there was one in 2008, you mentioned it today. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Sorry.]] But it's been two years since the 16th grade, as I recall. So if it lasted two years, it might have lasted two months. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-308	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai in two minutes.
u2018-07-03-309	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I try to be brief, too. Mr Secretary of State said precisely that this legislation is a sort of codification summary. There is probably a misunderstanding here among my fellow Members as to what this really means. This means that both the application of the law, for example by the police and the court, was a fundamental need, or we can also say that it is a problem of how to deal with the conflict of so-called constitutional fundamental rights. This was a question that appeared in the reasoning of several court judgments and played a role in the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2016, and this call for the Parliament to take a stand in this matter must be a right, which meant that there was a situation in life, there was an established case law, and there were shortcomings compared to this case law, or there were issues that had to be settled constitutionally. There is an old, also quote, let me quote you, tempora mutantur et nos mutamur in illis change the times, and with them we also change. The fact that, in 1989, in connection with the Assembly Act of 1989, we organized an example, a spontaneous demonstration, say, in front of the Romanian embassy, but interestingly, we didn't think about going to the Romanian ambassador's house, apartment, and pitching tents there, and staying there for weeks with drums, whistles, and perhaps waking up his child at 2:00 a.m., because we were just about to say something very important. Times have changed, you can also see that I see it in the category of political expression, my time is running out, I can't finish it, and then maybe I'll finish it in the next round. But the point of what I have to say is that the change has been demanded by the last thirty years, that we regulate, that we come up with such a bill, or that the Ministry of Justice came up with such a bill. It's also a clear fact that what you're doing, by the way, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] They call it a rubber law, a fundamentally inaccurate approach, because the very characteristic of this bill is that it corrects earlier concepts, illuminates case-law issues, gives a solution to them [[The president's ringing again.]] and, as legislators, we regulate the issues considered to be important. Thank you very much. I'll let you know later. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-310	Thank you. Please, Congressman, we are trying to keep the time frame, that's why it's in the house rules. I give the floor to Mrs Mátrai Márta, in the ordinary speech.
u2018-07-03-311	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I would like to start by adding a few thoughts to the right of assembly after the Hungarian Government has submitted T/707. of the European Parliament and of the Council. However, I will put a short line of thought only to this bill, since Fidesz's lead speaker, Dr. Judit Bertalan, explained our position in detail. However, I must add one point, in full synchronization with what the Secretary of State has said, precisely because the general explanation of the bill gives my fellow Members full guidance on the opposition side when, on the one hand, they question why this bill is currently on the legislative table. I will not quote it in length, but I must point out that there is an unlawful situation in default, said the Constitutional Court in its decision of 13/2016, and then called on the legislator to remove this conflict, this omission, because the legislator did not regulate the guarantee rules ensuring the peaceful nature of the assembly. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the task of the legislator has been defined by the Constitutional Court and has also set a deadline, and this deadline has expired on 31 December 2016 and is now in 2018. In order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, the assembly law is now on the agenda. Then I would like to move on to the privacy bill. Article VI of the Fundamental Law of Hungary Article 1 (1) states: "Everyone has the right to respect his private and family life, his home, his contacts and his reputation. The Hungarian Government has submitted the T/706 bill on privacy, which, in my view, fills a very long-standing deficit. I am convinced that the provisions of the bill, together with the final provisions, set out in 4 chapters and 16 paragraphs, are natural and self-evident for all responsible people. Just as the statement in the chapter of the National Creed of the Fundamental Law is natural, that the foundation of human existence is human dignity. The bill before us regulates, protects, protects, and enforces human dignity by order of absolute respect according to the Fundamental Law. This is all the more so, since today, unfortunately, people have the desire to look into other people's privacy, family life, home, and unsolicited disclosure of unsolicited half information and false news without assessing its serious consequences. The general provisions of the bill 2. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 clearly states and excludes the above-mentioned infringements, since the right to privacy is essential so that, contrary to the individual's will, it cannot be violated by others. The Constitutional Court has interpreted the right to the private sector and its relationship with human dignity, and 13/2016. Paragraph 2 of the Act clearly sets out and excludes the above-mentioned infringements, since the right to privacy is essential so that it is not violated by others against the individual's will. The Constitutional Court has interpreted the right to the private sector and its relationship with human dignity, and 13/2016. (Rule VII) 18. In AB's decision, he explained:, The Fundamental Law VI. Article 59 (1) of the old Constitution. Contrary to § /1/, it protects the private sector comprehensively: the private and family life, home, contact and reputation of the individual. It has been found that it is an essential element of the private sector so that, despite the will of the person concerned, others cannot enter or look into it. I would also like to quote here the line of thought of the American Supreme Court, which states that the rest of the home is the last refuge of tired people, the space where people can retreat from everyday bustle. The aspects of the protection of the private sector are also included in international documents, and I believe that, if I describe this, this is indisputable as to why such large-scale regulation of privacy was necessary. Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states: "No one should be subject to arbitrary interference in his privacy, family affairs, choice of place of residence or correspondence, nor should he be violated in his honor or reputation. In accordance with Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, everyone has the right to respect their private and family lives, homes and correspondence. The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, pursuant to Article 17, shall not subject anyone to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his privacy, family, housing or correspondence, nor to an illegal attack on his honour and reputation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[23.30]] In everyday life, there is often a question of how the private and family life of public actors and the news, information, observations and claims about their homes should be handled. Detailed justification of the bill is given in Article 7. In the context of the priority areas of the right to privacy, the public operator shall have the same protection as a person who does not qualify as a public person against communication or conduct outside the scope of free debate on public matters. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The citizen's relative under the Civil Code is not specifically named in the proposal, since, in the light of the public figure alone, the relative is not a public figure. Article XVI of the Fundamental Law Having regard to Article 4 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this proposal also includes specific names for children. The bill is set out in Annex II. It is also important that the provisions of Chapter III of the European Parliament and of the Council are also important because the public actor is entitled to expect his or her relatives not to be exposed to any part of the media or political struggle that is intended for a political player. The right to privacy is the separation of privacy and the world outside it, the need for individuals to be able to separate the elements of their privacy and community life. The establishment of the information society has contributed to a significant reduction in respect for people's privacy. In today's infocommunication space almost without borders, in the absence of elemental respect, any news, false news and false claim about anyone can be disseminated. The bill before us is also in order on this issue, because in today's intrusive world, increased protection of privacy is justified at the level of legislation, case law and law policy. This bill is also a value choice, as the Minister for Justice László Trócsányi put it, and he has sent a message to all law-abiding people about the constitutionalist, freedom of expression and the exercise of the right of assembly should not result in harming the private and family lives of others and their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill expresses the commitment of the government and Parliament to protect the interests of persons, families and privacy. The bill contains the wording of a set of values within the legal framework which is also in line with international conventions. Therefore, and in view of this, I would ask my fellow Members to support both of the legislative proposals before us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-312	Thank you very much for your speech. And now I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó in two minutes.
u2018-07-03-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Mr Bajkai again in the first place. In the last two minutes, you mentioned that you were marching to the Romanian embassy in the early '90s. Help me to understand that, under this very advanced and highly modern bill, within the meaning of paragraph 3 (a) of paragraph 3 of the prohibition of a convention, whether it is possible or not to do so in the future, on the basis of a clause that hinders the fulfilment of the obligation for a person residing in Hungary enjoying other immunity based on diplomatic or international law. This is a fairly objective prohibition, let's say, in addition to how to prevent the commitment of a person residing in Hungary from being fulfilled, the poet does not tell us this here either, so I do not know what kind of commitment Hungary has to make, and when and when we do not understand it. It's the cancer of this whole law. Perhaps the Secretary of State will help us figure out what they were really thinking when this sentence was written, but it is likely that those who are granted diplomatic immunity will receive some special treatment after the adoption of the law. So you cannot go to the Romanian embassy, either spontaneously or in a planned manner, if you wish to do so for an extraordinary reason, at least that is how it seems. And the problem is, you know, my fellow Member, and that is why this is a terrible thing that we are calling a debate here in Parliament, because they should only be considered before such a law is passed by this Parliament, and obviously all the other Members who are not here on Fidesz's side, I risk not reading this proposal, they will come in in two weeks, and they will press the yes button while they may somehow think otherwise. Thank you so much for listening. Paragraph 1 (a) shall prevent the fulfilment of the obligation in respect of a person residing in Hungary which is subject to other exemptions based on diplomatic or international law from being able to do so or not in the future. This is a fairly objective prohibition, let's say, in addition to how to prevent the commitment of a person residing in Hungary from being fulfilled, the poet does not tell us this here either, so I do not know what kind of commitment Hungary has to make, and when and when we do not understand it. It's the cancer of this whole law. Perhaps the Secretary of State will help us figure out what they were really thinking when this sentence was written, but it is likely that those who are granted diplomatic immunity will receive some special treatment after the adoption of the law. So you cannot go to the Romanian embassy, either spontaneously or in a planned manner, if you wish to do so for an extraordinary reason, at least that is how it seems. And the problem is, you know, my fellow Member, and that is why this is a terrible thing that we are calling a debate here in Parliament, because they should only be considered before such a law is passed by this Parliament, and obviously all the other Members who are not here on Fidesz's side, I risk not reading this proposal, they will come in in two weeks, and they will press the yes button while they may somehow think otherwise. Thank you so much for listening. (Applause in the ranks of the opposition. )
u2018-07-03-314	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a normal time frame.
u2018-07-03-315	Mr President, Dear House, There is no need for a man to get involved in the repetition of his fellow Members, that if he wants to find further attackable points in this proposal, which is far from about a demonstration or two in front of Viktor Orbán's house, this irritated the government's top management, and therefore made a proposal to prevent this from happening in the future. I would like to make it clear that I myself do not support any degree of vestature of Viktor Orbán's family or family members, I do not support the veszature of any politician, family member of any public figure, whether it is in his business, health or family relations, my stomach has always been spinning about it, and I have tried to stay away from all sorts of similar instruments. The reason I feel this proposal is particularly hypocritical, is that it was presented by Fidesz-KDNP, which in the latter campaign operated a complete lie factory and operated by manual control, most of all during my political community, the character-killer campaigns against Jobbik, that he used exactly the methods described here, which he now wants to get rid of or move away from, and since this affected lie factory, the media machine has lost more than 110 lawsuits only to Jobbik, and has not won similar lawsuits, I believe that the numbers are talkative and prove that Fidesz is playing an incredibly hypocritical double game. In the case of sincere intentions, I can and want to support once again the fact that public figures and family members of politicians are not exposed to these phenomena, and I have never organised demonstrations in front of the house or near the children of political leaders myself. I would very much like for you to refrain from digging into the different living conditions of our family members, and I would very much like for our family members to be able to sleep comfortably from you, and the fact is that this is not the case at the moment. 110 winners, so far only a press trial proves that what you are asking us to do is not given to opposition actors and is not given to their family members. And it's obvious why not. Of course, you're going to deny this here, but it's absolutely amazing that the lie factory, the Ripost, the Lokal, the Habony Media, is not operated directly by you, but indirectly, or through some kind of metaphorical manual control, but because of the fact that the lie factory that belongs to you listed their properties according to their registered address, lies to billion-dollar villas, say, in the middle of Shvabhegy, or is lying about the fact that they painted their spalettes for a million forints, I don't even know who they are. So they're making amazing lies, losing press cases about it, and then they're paying after losing press cases like the military officer, because the media involved have built this into their budget, typically backed up by a state background. And now I could say that they are doing it, because they are doing us only good, on the one hand, our political camp is increasingly shutting us down, if we are being attacked by such nobility, and we even win the press trials, but if you look at what is being done here, compared to what this media machine is doing in reality, you will find some pretty amazing hypocritical living conditions; I say this despite my support for you not to organize demonstrations in front of your house that disturb your children. At the same time, the government shows an amazing degree of codification when it puts this package of paper in front of us. It's gonna be the second one right now. It is also considered to be a meeting if two persons hold meetings with a view to expressing their views on public matters. Our highly prepared lawyers have indicated that, in practice, this is incomprehensible; if they are discussing politics with their colleagues before Parliament, they are already gathering in line with this proposal. [[23.40]] Of course, you can try to resolve your doubts here, Mr. Secretary, and try to do so, but why can't you just codify such a proposal fairly? It's not the first time in this cycle, for the fifth time, that sin is wrong, unsuitable, and uncoding, amazing Frankensteins, freaks, instead of taking a couple of corrective amendments. What is being done around the concept and responsibility of the organizer and the leader is simply a category of jokes. It is not limited to who is responsible, who is responsible, who is responsible for the fact that if there is a disturbance or injury, and even if someone is calling to hold the event, then why should he be the leader of the meeting? It is also unviable how the proposal provides for an agreement in the lead when many real life situations simply exclude it. So it seems that this proposal has been put together by people who have no idea of similar living conditions. They can't imagine someone announcing, say, a demonstration, and then they're not there, and they're being conducted by others, they're being organized by others, they're being led by others, they're being held responsible for what happened there. It is also quite amazing that you believe that the activities related to the meeting must be completed under ics-ysylon conditions, but also the stay there. So, in a rule of law, you want to prescribe in a supposedly free country that someone disappears from a public area. So, not to finish a demonstration or to stop that activity, but to clean it up even from the public area. That's amazing. So clearly, you people who wrote this don't know these conditions of life. They're talking about scary clothes. Again, this is a category that is not sufficiently defined. And when there was a little debate between us here earlier regarding the denial of communist and Nazi crimes, I wanted to point out that in Hungary several times there was a police measure to protect traditional symbols, clothing, or even a glutton, because of the fact that they were in Hungary. The representative of the determining body presumed it to be a World War II symbol, and proceedings were initiated against those who, where appropriate, had no intention of denying any historical sin. And now, by making all this the 14th. I don't know what kind of professional person will decide on the intention of the symbolism of a demonstration, I have fears, that absolutely harmless demonstrations will be made in accordance with political taste and not in professional terms. But back to the intimidating kind of clothing, is it going to be a field-pattern mini suit? It is not limited to what they think, what they want from us, what we should vote for. It clearly doesn't show that the organizer, the manager, when he announces an event, should now know who's going to come to his event, what kind of clothes they're going to wear or show up in? So mind-reading whistleblowers have an advantage? So it seems that they are trying to regulate life conditions that have not been properly thought out. I am also amazed at the fact that, once again, the description of spontaneous demonstrations shows the same thing, since it means that only when there is no organizer will something become flashmobic. But you also know that this is not the case in practice. Seriously, I could mention the concerns about this by morning, I wouldn't want to waste time and abuse the fact that it could actually be linked to any of the paragraphs here, but basically, spontaneous protests are being banned by this bill. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The confusion of the article clearly refers to this, and when it talks about the need to disband the event, if there was a place to prohibit the assembly, but it was not forbidden by the police because of the absence of the announcement, we stop for a moment and think that, on that basis, virtually any meeting, any flashmob can be dissolved immediately, and any spontaneous protests can be stopped and dissolved, even if the legal possibilities currently in force are squashed. No one wants that. And really, with the support of basic intentions, so that the family members of a public figure can't be exterminated, I would like to ask for an opinion, a guarantee, in terms of how this will be enforced with the representatives of the Habony Media. So how do you imagine that the qualified lie factory that has regularly destroyed and vexed the family members of my fellow Members, Gábor Vona, my family members, in what way will they be retreated? After all, you cannot accept this humanly, who are sitting in this Chamber now, so that any of your fellow Members may not be exposed to this family members who have much contact with political life. You can't seriously think that's okay. I understand that they are turning their heads aside, and they think that the interests of the Ripost, the Lokal, if any, andy Vajna will take care of the dirty work and you can sleep in peace. But that's not true. The responsibility on this issue is uniform and indivisible, because you know these processes, you know they exist, we tell them. If they cannot change this substance and can not make these conditions apply to us, then this is an absolute hypocritical thought experiment, all that lies in front of us. I am very pleased, however, that the partial handling of public blog pages is also here, although this seems to be a less racial issue, and I am also pleased that the various issues of investigative journalism have been clarified. I accept this clarification, by the way, so that does not bother me in particular in the bill. I would add that with a fair drone law, we should also make sure that not only journalists and cameras, but also drones can not carry family members or children. Believe me, we know from personal experience that this can be very, very irritating, and we have never used it against you, never intended to use such tools. That's why I don't understand why they're still using them against public figures. It can also be seen that while the Government of Hungary does not want to impose restrictions on public Facebook posts, but there is still an area in which this apparent freedom exists, although I would like to add that it remains on the side of a private company, I seriously ask you to take a position on the fact that it is acceptable in your world, according to your values, for the Vegeta tour of the public players of Jobbik. I highlight ourselves a little selfishly because in the last campaign period, this political community has suffered most of these attacks in a character-killing manner. I'd say something even if it was for the other communities. I would speak against a similar action against the representative of any party, even if the same would be worth Fidesz-KDNP. Believe me, we started every election campaign without using the same tools, and we do not want to use the same tools in the future. At the same time, it is credible on your part that the entire petition and its protection can be resolved in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
u2018-07-03-316	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai.
u2018-07-03-317	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Compared to the previous two-minute speech, I would like to add that which has not been said there. On the one hand, I somehow got the impression, although despite the fact that we have repeatedly said that we are talking about codification and legislation following a codification request, I somehow have the feeling that neither the 2016 Constitutional Court decision is known to the honourable opposition representatives, so they have not read what is in this Constitutional Court decision, which is what I see in me. In fact, I'm willing to risk not knowing the legal problems of the last 30 years. Because if they knew him, they wouldn't have asked a lot of questions. A little view of law enforcement bodies and the view of judicial decisions is that, if a number of legal principles had not been crystallised in them, many legal solutions and legal problems would not have crystallized. Here simply, I apologize for the expression, I do not wish to offend you too much, but you simply do not know the law or the legal problem. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What is it like when he wants to hurt you?]] To answer my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, because he loves extremes, I will give you an example. If I wanted to organise a demonstration, I would not be talking about before the Romanian embassy, but I would like to organise a demonstration on whether the MSZP could legally exist after it was created from the assets of the MSZMP and from the transfer of its rights of legal value at the time, so I would like to discuss this issue and, say, organise a demonstration on this matter. But not even in front of the head office of the MSZP, or maybe not in front of one of the apartments, because I find it hard to find, but I say that I will organize such a protest in Nyíregyháza, in front of Petőfi utca number 2, there is probably a number 2 of Petőfi utca, so I can do it according to today's laws, because why shouldn't I organize there? [[23.50]] 'Cause why don't I set up there? Why don't I tell you my excuses about the operation of the MSZP in front of your private home? It's not even a relative, it's not even a party leader. So, quite simply, this is an extreme example obviously, and I am just now signaling to the honourable Member and the honourable opposition Members, if we now look at the problems of the application of the law of the court and the rule of the old assembly law of 1989, that is now possible. We have also seen in recent years, in recent years, that this legislative gap or this lack of legislation or this type of interpretation has been highlighted by many. I could say that, for example, in the case of foreign exchange creditors, various bank managers or subordinates or even judges have organised protests not only in Budapest, but also in Szeged, for example. We can also see that the court has not been able to resolve this controversial situation, and even the competent authorities of the police have not been able to resolve this issue, because once again, in the event of a conflict of constitutional fundamental rights, the order of order and the criteria for consideration could not be resolved under the current constitutional regulation or assembly law. And it was left out of my previous two-minute period, and that is why I say that the codification requirement has been a legal problem for many years, because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, this legislation had to be created, created or created, and that is not clear to us or to me, honourable opposition representatives, when faced with this issue, then have they read the proposal that has been submitted and the very long-term justification for it in the field of law at all. I would just like to point out that the right of assembly among the university studios is a serious subject, at least for half a year students listen to it, and they have to take an exam from it, and I have serious doubts, honourable Members, that this studio could be met. Because judging from their questions, for example, the violation of the order of transport stands before them as if there were an unknown legal problem for law enforcement. It is not unknown that if you could possibly consult a colleague of the Budapest Police Commissioner, who is a high-ranking police officer and a police group with a high level of legal training, decades of experience, you could tell you what this means in practice and how it has been implemented in the legislative environment. But you didn't take this kind of trouble for yourselves, and apparently you're using the debate on this bill to raise fears or refer to rubber legislation again. I have just quoted in my two-minute speech to you that what you call rubber law is not a rubber rule. You don't know this concept of what rubber law means. This means that the legislator is in complete uncertainty about the content of the legislation and can be interpreted in all directions in a positive and negative way. This legislation is of this type, so to speak, does not exist, and you have not said it yet, and you still lack this specificness in your speeches. Unfortunately, I must once again classify a significant part of the speeches as unjustified fear-raising and a form of obstruction. By the way, returning to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for half a sentence, she mentioned in part that the problem of the open garden gate would function as a public area with the garden, if I had taken it right out of her words. To be honest, I think you're an excellent lawyer, but obviously you just wanted to be humorous. I appreciate his elegant sense of humor, but obviously a garden and a private home won't become a public space if I open the door, but once again, I appreciate your sense of humor. And back to the speech of the former best-selling colleague, I note only for half a sentence that such press-correction and personality lawsuits would not be linked to the right of assembly at all, that is a completely different law. Thank you very much for your speech. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-07-03-318	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2018-07-03-319	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that if you, while always telling us to stick to the concrete bill, would spend a little more energy actually trying to defend the bill with arguments and a little less to insult the opposition fairly superficially and overlorded, this would probably help to talk seriously about this serious matter. Because, dear congressman, it is true that you can even organize a protest in Nyíregyháza. That's how strange this right of assembly is, even on Petőfi Street you can organize a protest if there is no other obstacle to that. And yes, Congressman, the distinction between the rule of law and the police state is that the law determines where a protest can be held or what the conditions of assembly are, and not the decision of Colonel József Óberling, whom we have also respected. But in a rule of law, fundamental rights are protected and not the decision of an individual police chief. Finally, you have forgotten to answer your question: according to the rule set by you, which I forgot to mention to diplomatic representations in a new rubber paragraph, and then the Secretary of State will reply, but we look forward to this, but you also provide special protection for diplomatic missions and diplomats, how to arrange a demonstration before an embassy without disturbing the movement of diplomats and the activities of diplomats. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-07-03-320	Thank you. For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Tamás Harangozó.
u2018-07-03-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to respond to Mr Bajkai. On the one hand, I would really look forward to solving the embassy, too, and we should not always hurt the Romanian neighbours, if a fictitious embassy, say, would like to present it in front of the Czechoslovak embassy, then how would you do it now. Two, with all due respect, you can really lecture me, but you said such nonsense that I think you're the yelling one. He says there's an established court case, everyone knows what to do. Well, Congressman, you guys, if you press that button, that case law is useless the way it is. Their new law will have to be adapted by law enforcement. And back to his specific saying, for example, how well the Budapest police officer was able to do his job based on the legal environment so far, and he knows everything very well. Based on what we've done so far. They're changing it now! And don't tell me that you need a scientific degree to understand that the difference between the term "damaging the order of transport" and the term "movement" cannot be ensured otherwise. Once again, a violation of the order of transport can also be if someone steps off the sidewalk. Two people, let's say, talking politics, or someone just can't park where they usually are. If there is no other way to ensure the order of transport, it is about the fact that a hundred thousand protests cannot be prevented because otherwise they will be on one of the avenues, because people will leave, because the police will figure out that those who want to travel through other streets will be able to do so. By the way, if you are looking for MSZMP assets, my fellow Member, in the early 1990s it was cleared, it was redistributed among the parties. Please ask Simicska and Viktor Orbán if the 2 billion forints from the sale of the Officer's Casino are one of the original crimes of Fidesz and one of the Fidesz's most interesting first corruption cases, where the money was put and where it wasn't, and how the future of Fidesz evolved. Thank you very much.
u2018-07-03-322	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I don't see a candidate. I therefore close the joint general debate and give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary.
u2018-07-03-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I'll try to cut it short, although there were some basic concepts that came up again and again. Thus, the assembly held for the purposes of expression falls within the scope of the Assembly Act, which is quite precisely stated in the Act 1. Article 2 (1) (a) It's a question of interpretation, maybe some people are trying to include something else, believe me, that's all it is, and it's only this criterion that decides whether an event falls within the scope of the law or not. I advised them to read the justification of the law, and I read it myself after the question was spoken, and there it is. So, let's say, if you are obstructing the movement of a diplomatic delegation, and there is a conflict here, because we have an international obligation to ensure this freedom of movement, then there is the right of assembly, then it is obvious that we must leave the diplomatic corps to travel there, because it cannot be prevented and taken hostage, say, in Hungary. Here, the police must have a device like this in their hands. [[0.00]] Head of the meeting, organizer. It may not have been clear to everyone that there could be more organisers, and then the leader must be appointed from among them, precisely to have responsibility and to have someone to negotiate matters with. What might be necessary even in the context of spontaneous assembly is, in effect, to repeat that spontaneous assembly is not automatically banned, but to apply those consequences if otherwise banned. And let's not think of flashmobs or other events here, because they're not under the assembly law. I hope I've been able to answer a few things. If we have any questions left, I hope that we will be able to clear them tomorrow. Thank you for your attention, and thank you for the positive comments that have, therefore, acknowledged some of the virtues of the law. Thank you. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey applauds.]]
u2018-07-03-324	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time to speak after the agenda. To speak after a single agenda, Mr Sándor Székely asked: "It is difficult not only to live and live in Hungary, but also to live. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-07-03-325	Thank you very much for the floor. I didn't think it would come to me this late. So much for the previous debate that the pudding test is eating, and we'll see what happens, because I've organized a lot of protests over the last few years, and then in September we'll try to see how this law works, but that's not what this is about. Ladies and gentlemen, Two weeks ago, the House adopted the Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law. According to this, the state and local authorities seek to provide accommodation for all homeless persons. Well, then, in the spirit of fairness, the next paragraph prohibiting a public stay should have been formulated in such a way as to ensure that citizens do not reside in public areas. We can approach the question from the other direction, of course. Several countries recognise the right to housing among fundamental rights. The Fundamental Law, on the other hand, stands alone in the world by creating not a right to housing, but an obligation to housing. If the state is obliging its citizens to do something, then it must create the conditions for the fulfilment of this obligation. Mandatory vaccinations are free of charge. In order to fulfil the school obligation, we do not expect citizens to build schools and sign a faculty. Therefore, if you are obliging citizens to live somewhere, you should be kind enough to provide them with housing. This would be all the more justified, honourable Members, because the fact is that we are in very bad shape in Hungary today. Wages are extremely low, housing loans are rising and there is simply no job to get normal wages. Of course, it's community service, and you're public service for 57,000 a month, but you can't take credit from it, but you can make a living. The basic incomes are also left out of the CSOK. So here, as in all areas, the system supports the higher-income, more solvent layers, leaving the others, the average citizens to themselves. Housing support and social housing programmes are needed, but there are no traces of them. In Germany, where 48 percent of the apartments are municipal owned, housing programmes are launched for EUR 6 billion. This amount is almost 5 percent of Hungary's annual GDP. In Hungary, however, the government has just abolished the so far available rent support under the cafeteria system, which was recently proudly claimed to have reduced the conditions for its use and increased the amount by HUF 30,000. This brings us to another important pillar of the topic, mobility. In January, the Ministry of Mihály Varga clearly saw that labour mobility is a key issue in employment, which the government helps through the tax system with discounts and various exemptions. Well, it won't help next year, even though there are now 80,000 vacancies in the country. In the Western part, large investors, Audi, Suzuki or Opel have absorbed the workforce reserve, and more and more people are moving to Austria and even to work in Slovakia. Labour shortages would be alleviated by job-seekers in the regions of the North Great Plain and South Transdanubia, but they are not able to get close to the workplace, because the demand has risen from housing costs. The government has thus managed to create a situation for next year that is bad for everyone: employers of the Western country, because they have no or much more expensive access to the necessary workforce; those seeking employment in remote areas of the country are in vain, because they will continue to have public work, if at all; and the state, which loses significantly more by losing tax and social contributions that are thus missing than the amount of rent subsidies would cost. Well, isn't it true that the majority of governments always act for the sake of interest? This time, it's bad enough for her to be bad for herself. Thank you for listening. [[Gergely Harvester applauds.]]
u2018-07-03-326	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place on 9 July 2018. I thank everyone for their work, and the meeting is closed.
