u2018-11-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, on this morning of the winter. The 21st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who is monitoring our work today, our debates. Dear Parliament, We start work today with speeches before the agenda, then from 12:15 to 13:45 p.m., as planned, and then from 13:45 p.m. to 14:45 p.m. to the hour of immediate questions and answers, and we finish today's work with the speeches after the agenda. He applied for a pre-meeting speech. Why? Mr Adam Mirkóczki of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that Nikola Gruevski's case has been mildly formulated in the Hungarian political history of recent decades, and for the time being, government communication supports this rather than disproves it. There's a lot to know, and there's a lot you don't know about this. What we know, and what is leaking through the press to the public for the time being, seems to be a very bad scenario for a Z-category spy movie, and we would laugh about it if it did not happen in Hungary and not in cooperation with the Hungarian government. Cross-border crossings in women's clothing, private jets, Hungarian diplomatic cars and many other suspected or real facts have been said here, but one thing we know for sure is that this convicted criminal has arrived in Hungary, and the Prime Minister's Office has essentially confirmed this fact. However, if this fact has been confirmed, as the Macedonian authorities have also stated, that there is no passport for this gentleman, then it is also certain that he has entered Hungary illegally. At the time, we can say that the Hungarian government has given up its anti-refugee policy so far, and now finally accepts a refugee against his communication. On the other hand, the problem is that this gentleman is not a political pursuer, he is not a religious pursuer, he is not fleeing an industrial disaster, he is fleeing a war, he is fleeing the truth, he is fleeing prison. If we can believe the Prime Minister's office, you'll take this man in. Although they claim that they are merely looking at and looking at this case as a legal issue, it can be concluded that this is not true, since if they were to consider this case as a legal issue, this person should be in the transit zone. Hungarian legislation and any international treaty which Hungary has ratified and signed in this regard do not require anywhere, nor does it give the person the opportunity to receive any special treatment, whether in an embassy or in a declaration of intent before any authority, or otherwise. If there is no passport, then he should be in the transit zone along the border and wait for asylum procedures there. I would very much like to know, and it would be good for you to respond to the role played by the Hungarian authorities or authorities in this matter, for example, on the issue of border crossings, at the order of the Hungarian Government or the Hungarian Government. If we want to reconstruct the events, there are a great many countries crossing the border through Macedonia, Albania, Serbia and Montenegro, but one thing is certain, the Hungarian government has played a role in this. This is what I would like to know, in particular, which ministry is responsible, in which ministry and to whom he has ordered that this man be transferred in this way. The role of the State Department may arise, the role of the Ministry of Interior may arise, but the role of the Prime Minister's Office may also arise. I think it's in your primary interest to clear this up as soon as possible and in an exact manner. Fallen dictators in third countries run away from each other. Do they really want to be in this line? In 2011, he adopted the failed Tunisian dictator ibn Abdul-Aziz in Saudi Arabia. It was exactly the same chronology: if something becomes uncomfortable, if there is a prison sentence, then I will go to my friends, because in the case, it will also help with its own legislation. I do not think that Hungary should fit into this line pattern in the middle of Europe, what we have seen either in Latin America or in Africa or in the Middle East. You can see they're not treating it as a legal matter, they're treating it as a political matter. However, if you treat it as a political matter, then I think that the responsible political attitude is to comply with our own legislation in the first place, and secondly to have a mutual extradition agreement with Macedonia. The Macedonian authorities have turned to the Hungarian government to issue this man to serve his final sentence for two years. I would like to get a very clear and very exact answer to this hard question, preferably without serialisation. I really think that their own voters, the citizens of Hungary, will be honoured by the fact that if the government takes a clear, normal position in this unprecedented scandal. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-3	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Now will be the case when, first of all, as a representative of the government, I must protect Brussels and protect Belgium, protect NATO and our allies in the European Union, because if we accept the logic that you have raised, namely that the Heads of State and Government persecuted for political reasons do not have the opportunity to apply for asylum, then it must be said that, at the moment, Belgium is breaking the rules on this matter. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: There was a question! Adam Mirkóczki: I asked!]] In the context of Jobbik, it is quite strange to decode immigration issues that are difficult to decode. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I can hear you. Unfortunately, it's the truth. [[11.10]] So when we try to find out what Jobbik thinks about immigration, we here, working with the Cabinet Office, need to put together an information document, which shows that in the speech before Monday's agenda, they act as supporters of immigration, and in the speech before the Tuesday's agenda, we hear that all forms of immigration, as it is, are condemned and that Jobbik was originally based on this. So that's where we start with Jobbik. If we would also like to talk about the specific matter, because I would also answer Mr President's question, the specific matter is extremely important. Former Macedonian Prime Minister [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] a request for asylum has been lodged. At the moment, the examination of the asylum application is ongoing. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: In the transit zone?]] I would like to ask you to stop the disinformation campaigns on this matter. You, too, mentioned in your speech [[Adam Mirkóczki: I was just asking!]] The fact that the former Macedonian Prime Minister did not do this in the transit zone is the 2007 LXXX. Law 71/A, the Asylum Act. § 7 which provides that the rules of the cross-border procedure shall not apply to persons requiring special treatment. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Lajos Rig: Yeah, because he's a criminal?]] Yes, we think the Hungarian government thinks [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that anyone who has served as Prime Minister for ten years in that country and who is persecuted for political reasons At least this must be the basis of a legal procedure and submit an application for asylum, as other Western European countries otherwise do with a mass, it should be possible for him to submit an application and, moreover, Hungarian legislation will give him the opportunity to do so. So everything that's going on is the asylum procedure that's going on right now, and in which it's assessed whether you've been chasing me for political reasons, what security risk you have for your person, that you belong to Macedonia, we'll see what the consequences of this process will be, but I think everyone has a right, and in particular a former Prime Minister has the right to conduct this procedure. So what I can say to your specific question is that neither the Hungarian State nor the Hungarian authorities helped Nikola Gruevski get out of Macedonia [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks. Adam Mirkóczki: Then how was it? Without a passport?]] The former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Macedonia, at a foreign representation, indicated his intention to apply for asylum. According to Hungarian law, it is possible to do so, according to Hungarian law, it must not be done in the transit zone, and according to Hungarian law it can do so by travelling to Hungary, and here the Hungarian authorities will hear it in connection with the examination of the application. [[Adam Mirkóczki: Without Passport? The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to offer you a detailed study of the asylum law and the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. We made this possible for security reasons, we thought that it was the right decision, we will see the outcome of the procedure, and the BAH and the Immigration and Asylum Office will do so in accordance with Hungarian law, in accordance with international law. And for precisely security reasons, and in order to protect personal data, we do not intend to provide any further information on this matter until then. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-4	[[Without microphone:]] Ladies and gentlemen, Calm down, everyone. Tamás Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech... [[Intercoms: We can't hear you!]] Tamás Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. From public servants to slaves or to news about the intention of the government. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, I could start by talking about it and asking you how and why you decided to bring back shame and sell your own country practically by participating in the escape of Nikola Gruevski from prison, but I would like to talk to you about a subject that affects a very, very, very many Hungarian people and very, very many Hungarian families in particular. The number of civil servants and civil servants in the area of public administration and defence, according to KSH data, is around 100,000 people, hundreds of thousands of families, including 12 thousand in the area of law enforcement. According to the news, the government has prepared at least two laws that will fundamentally turn these people's lives upside down. The law on government administration rewrites the entire administration, and the law on alarm, that is, the law on law enforcement administrative workers, rewrites the rules in the field of law enforcement. The quote from the reason of the law, published in Népszava about its first real purpose, is likely to give its substance, and I quote: "The government officials are subject to special obligations, they are obliged to put their workforce into the service of the public, they fulfil their duties in the public interest. As a result, they are subject to a strict obligation of obedience and are liable for disciplinary and compensation more than general. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A large part of trade unions believe that the proposal is technically unacceptable, does not make life predictable for those working in central administration, but at many points it creates a worse situation for employees than the rules that have already been applied to them. It is not ruled out that a gross cut in the freedoms of both affected circles is a breach of the basic law by the government, and strongly object to the introduction of 12 hours a day of work and the freeing of overtime. According to most advocacy leaders, the new legal relationship cannot be re-established within a month. It also says a lot about the justice of the system as well as the planned pay table, but perhaps even more, that in many cases the managers are given a hundred percent leeway, how much they pay for their work, making the workers completely vulnerable. I think it speaks for itself that a government administrator can bring home a gross HUF 145 thousand, while the administrative secretary of state is planning to take 1 million 900 thousand, i.e. 13 times what the lowest-ranking man is. [[11.20]] In particular, it is worth pointing out that it is reported that they will return to the quasi-domestic employee system operating in the Soviet system in the field of law enforcement. Today there are nearly 12,000 civil servants and civil servants working in the area, and their lives are being completely disrupted by changes. Who are they again? There are 11 800 public employees who work in areas other than the basic tasks of the bodies, such as those working in the field of health, teachers in the field of education who work in the field of internal affairs. They will be offered virtually an unarmed military position with fundamental rights restrictions, appointment-related additional obligations, special conditions of employment, oath obligations, employment other than appointment, disciplinary responsibility and professional principles. To give some examples: freedom of movement and freedom to choose a place of residence will be undermined, freedom of expression is restricted by the law, restrictions on voting rights, freedom of choice for work and employment or restrictions on the exercise of property rights. This will all be waiting for people who have worked as civil servants or civil servants in the internal affairs area so far. They will also be awaiting surveillance by the Secret Service, and they will also be expected to be transferred at virtually any time as an employment agent, sent to any other job without their consent. We do not know what will happen to the rights already acquired, what will happen to the cafeteria benefits, what will happen to the sectoral agreements that trade unions have concluded with employers. One thing is known: with 12 hours of work, with the cutting of freedoms, with the threat of disciplinary action, the only objective of the proposal is to create a government in quasi-military dependence, which implements the central will in all circumstances. Where there is legal certainty and predictability is in this, there's no telling. Where the interests of the Hungarian people are in this, there is no way to know If that is what you are really going to do, Honourable Parliament, my fellow Members of the Government, we ask you not to submit this proposal. Following a fair consultation, this proposal will be introduced in the spring session and forget to change the lives of hundreds of thousands of people in a coup d'état again, overnight. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-19-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontra will respond to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I strongly reject the indications that he uses for civil servants, government officials. That's exactly how you and your party feel. By the way, Congressman, when you were a ministerial advisor in various ministries in the period 2002-2010, why didn't civil servants and civil servants perform their duties? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's not what this is about! Answer the question.]] or to increase your salary. You had your chance, you personally... [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That was the last time there was a wage increase!]]
u2018-11-19-8	Congressman! [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: I'm sorry, Mr. President, personal attack...]] But, Congressman Bell, that's not how it works. This is parliament! Here's the word, Congressman. When the time comes, you'll get one. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr. Secretary, you're welcome to continue. In your time, we'll count that time.
u2018-11-19-9	Thank you, Mr. President. So then you and the socialist governments would have had the opportunity to raise the salaries of civil servants and civil servants. But that's not what you did. But what did you do then, honourable Member? Your action has been victimized by the 13th month special benefit, and the rapid increase in inflation has led to a drastic decline in real earnings. From 2007 onwards, the public sector has been on an ongoing strike-out, which could only be avoided by the extra effort of public sector workers. Honourable Congressman, When you have been in government for eight years between 2002 and 2010, you have done this, thanks to civil servants and civil servants, Member. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that you are talking about a document, which has not yet been submitted to Parliament, which is being prepared for a decision and which is being discussed, and that you are spreading incorrect information about it. In accordance with the house rules, after the submission, you will be able to state your position on the bill in the context of the general debate. [[László Varju intervenes.]]
u2018-11-19-10	Congressman Varju! [[Happy Stephen: Stop screaming!]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-11	That is how serious our left-wing fellow Members take the subject that they are bringing forward here in this House. But I want to go on with what I have to say. With effect from 1 July 2015, a new career in law enforcement was introduced with the adoption of the new Law of Service, resulting in an average salary increase of 50 per cent by 1 January 2019. We have not only increased the financial appreciation of police officers, disaster defenders, law enforcement workers, but also professional professionals in specialised services, and we have also achieved twice a 5% increase in salaries for civil servants, i.e. a total of 10 percent increase in salaries during this period. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The government's objective is clear, namely that everyone can take a step forward depending on the performance of the economy. The portfolio is planning a new legal status law for civil society in the law enforcement sector, civil servants and government officials, based on balanced regulation of rights and obligations, providing a substantial salary increase and a predictable system of advancement for law enforcement workers. The bill, honourable Member, will be submitted soon, and if you really care about the advancement of civil servants and government officials, the proper salary, I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató is a Member of the Government that supports illegal immigration! A title for the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The former Macedonian Prime Minister, who was sentenced to two years, fled his country, found refuge under the wings of the Orbán government in Hungary. [[Bence Rétvári: Friend of Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] First, I'll tell you what we know for sure, and then I'll tell you what the 17 most important questions we're looking for are. What do we know for sure? We know that he didn't end up in the transit zone, like all other asylum seekers, but in Budapest. We know you came to Hungary without a convicted criminal passport. We know that your request is being examined in substance, despite coming from a safe third country, a safe country of origin. Any such request shall otherwise be deemed inadmissible. We also know that this man did not undergo any domestic or EU security screening, but he was free to enter the country. Finally, we also know that this would obviously not have happened if the Hungarian government had not helped and supported him in this escape. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, let's get to the questions we're looking for. Where, when and how did a convicted former Macedonian prime minister enter the country? How could he come into the country without a passport? What did that border defense you've been talking about for years, and what happened to the fence if you can't protect the country from criminals? Why aren't you in the transit zone where you lock up the children fleeing the war? If you come from a safe country of origin or a safe third country, your application is automatically invalid. Why could he submit a request, and why should he be examined? Is it true that Viktor Orbán personally promised the Macedonian Prime Minister, who was still in power, that he could hide from the consequences here? From this point on, can any asylum seeker apply at foreign representations? 'Cause they're gonna have to process a lot of asylum applications for the rest of the day? Is it true that the convicted criminal was visiting a property of the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán? Did you get the house of the previously admitted, internationally wanted criminal, Mr Pharaon, in the vicinity of Viktor Orbán? Is that a guest house for internationally wanted criminals and terrorists? What did the Hungarian authorities do when it came to the fact that the inmate was looking for an international arrest warrant on his Facebook page announced that he was staying in Budapest in the interest of security? Have you notified the European co-organisations, have you notified Europol or Interpol? Did you go to the hotel where you spent the first night? Did you check Viktor Orbán's house, where he was hiding from the press? Why hasn't the running Prime Minister been captured to this day and handed over to the authorities to begin the expulsion procedure? Have NATO and EU co-governments been notified of what they're up to in Gruevski's case? [[11.30]] Did the wanted Macedonian Prime Minister have a settlement policy? Did you come into the country by prying down the 100 million forints for offshore companies near Fidesz, or did he choose a different path? The international press revealed in detail that the Hungarian government's foreign representatives smuggled the convicted criminal into Hungary and smuggled it across other countries. Who in the government ordered foreign representation workers to help a criminal escape? Who helped the Hungarian Prime Minister fleeing prison from the Hungarian government? Who is the Hungarian government who helps illegal migration and is involved in smuggling people? Will the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister's Office register as an immigration support organisation? And Fidesz has already registered as an immigration support organisation? Perhaps the entire Orbán government will act as a support organisation for immigration? That would simplify the paperwork. Are they gonna pay the immigration special tax? You're the ones who made this stupid law, and you're gonna have to do it. You say that illegal migration is already supported by anonymous credit cards. Did you give such a credit card to Mr. Gruevski, or did you otherwise fund his hiding? Are you hiding from the law stolen from public money... or from public money? [[Noise, interruptions.]] Or maybe he's paying you with his stolen money himself? How much money did they get to smuggle the wanted criminal on the Hungarian border without a passport? Was it worth it? Did he pay you well? Or didn't they do it for money? Did they do it because Master Putin ordered it? Perhaps, as we have just heard the Secretary of State's reply, in order to set a precedent for what is more, he said that a ten-year-old prime minister cannot be stopped at the border? They're preparing their own escape route? Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. You have to answer every single question because European Hungarians have a right to know what is happening in their country. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-19-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You promised me 17 questions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Prime number.]] But instead, there was a political statement disguised as 17 questions, partly, I could say, completely running false news. I'd like to clarify a few things about this. Neither the Hungarian State nor the Hungarian authorities helped Nikola Gruevski get out of Macedonia. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Embassy staff.]] At a Hungarian foreign representation, the former Prime Minister of Macedonia indicated that he wanted to apply for asylum. For security reasons, the Hungarian authorities have legitimately allowed the submission and hearing of their asylum application to be held at the centre of the Immigration and Nationality Office in Budapest, and the FAA will conduct the asylum procedure in accordance with Hungarian law, in accordance with international law. Nikola Gruevski is legally resident in Hungary in accordance with the legal requirements of asylum procedures. Honourable Congressman, Your accusations about the cover-up of criminals are strange because you have worked closely with Csaba Czeglédy, who are students and pensioners [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] It has damaged hundreds of people, and you have stood by it even when the whole country knew that it was involved in a serious procedure. By the way, in your speech, you were pushing for support for immigration in Hungary. Now, in this matter, the Democratic Coalition has a lot of butter behind its ears. Because you're the ones who denied it at first that immigration would pose any risk. You remember, the whole House can remember that Ferenc Gyurcsány said that you should be more afraid of dog dirt than of terrorists. And this attitude in principle is in fact reflected in actions, because it was you who personally protested when the southern border seal was built. Then, when there was trouble at the border, Agnes Vadai falsely claimed that the police had attacked the immigrants, even though it was the other way around. It was you who hid illegal immigrants. We remember that Ferenc Gyurcsány even took a few of them into his own house. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You did the right thing.]] You know as well as I do that the people you've taken in have hardly come in a legal way. It was you who supported the mandatory distribution of immigrants. The Democratic Coalition, your party, has even collected signatures for this. Then they tried to deny it for a while to vote in the European Parliament in 2017. You voted for it. Péter Niedermüller said directly that whether Orbán likes it or not, I quote, the quota system for distribution will be implemented, and four or five Member States will not escape. And then he thought of Hungary. Anyone who thinks that's the past is wrong. Look at everyone's position, Tamás Bauer. He was your candidate a few months ago. It was published a few days ago in connection with the current family consultation. He clearly says he'd answer no to the first question. So he would spend money on immigrants, not on Hungarian families raising children. That's a clear point, you don't really have to explain it. That's your official position right now. Immigration instead of strong Hungarian families. So if there is a party in Hungary that supports illegal immigration and has a stamp on it, it is the Democratic Coalition. If there are any parties in Hungary that should register themselves as a support organisation for immigration, it is your party. You know that, and I know that, and everyone who's been following the events in the past few years knows that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-19-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the group of the LMP, Mr Csárdi, with the title of Hungary's heart, Budapest, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-17	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Budapest celebrated its 145th year on Saturday. So, looking back at 145 years, I think we've had a very sad anniversary. Today, the time has come when Budapest is trapped in a right-hand bed, and now Budapest is under the guardianship of the government. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Would you say the same to Gyula Andrássy?]] Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I don't understand, a little louder, if you please. [[The president's ringing the bell. Noise, interruptions.]] Today we can see that the government has established a system of vulnerability. This system of vulnerability can be factually justified and demonstrated. Consider, for example, the replacement of subway 3. Remember that when the Budapest capital needed 100 buses for the replacement of vehicles and for the renewal of the line, you prohibited the purchase of new buses in a government decision. But there is also the question of line renewal, where we can see that interestingly now, at the beginning of the municipal elections, it was found an extra HUF 80 billion. This is because for you Budapest is a literary issue. But I must grieve my fellow Members, and I must say that for us who live here, for whom Budapest is the capital of the nation, it is not a literary issue, Mr State Secretary. For those of us who live here, our hearts are Budapest, and I think that is right. I also think that there is a need to talk about the municipal funding system, as this is the basis for vulnerability. Because the current funding system, since it finances only 70-80 percent of the mandatory tasks, creates a situation that virtually recreates the debt that you will say in the answer that you have taken over. In 2015, you took over the debt of the capital, which came together during the previous city leadership, but today we have reached the point of regenerating this debt in a few years. Last week there was a metropolitan assembly meeting, my fellow Members, and the Metropolitan Assembly decided on a loan of HUF 19 billion for the Main Square. The author wrote with surprising honesty that he still has the money to operate, but he has no free resources for any development. [[11.40]] Let us be honest that this situation exists in virtually all public service companies. We know that the permanent renewal of the plumbing network, the sewer network, is so slow that at this rate it would take hundreds of years to renew the infrastructure elements. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the fact that in Budapest the loan portfolio has been re-produced, and virtually every development is possible only with government approval and authorisation. The capital city of Budapest has lost its independence. I think I understand your philosophy, that whoever pays asks for the song, but I think we all, who live here, represent that the independence of the capital is a matter that is necessary, and which should be unquestionable. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who is the candidate for Mayor LMP?]] You have now invented the development council, through which you have made it virtually final and formal, that Budapest cannot decide its developments on its own. We know exactly your investments, which sometimes cause more damage than good. Let's just think about beating up City Park. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Beating Up?!]] Yes, Mr. Secretary, or let's think about the planned Olympics. Budapest, the capital of the nation, deserves more than that... [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Like an Olympics? The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Mr. President. [[Interjection: Time's up!]] So I think that Budapest deserves more [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Do you deserve a Puj? Does Budapest deserve a punch? More Puffs to the LMP!]] In the investment style that you represent, and I think that in Budapest, if you wanted it, but didn't want it, you could create a green and livable environment and not start all the investments by cutting trees. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2018-11-19-18	Thank you very much. Congressman, I didn't catch your surprise in five minutes. [[Antal Csárdi: Sorry, just as this is a speech before the agenda and not a dialogue before the agenda... Dr. Bence Rétvári: He is away with one!]] On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I prefer the feedback on this, unfortunately it is such a genre, when sometimes the story develops in a dialogue form than it has been seen in the previous speeches. We will support you so that you can speak before the agenda. In fact, I do not understand one thing about your speech before the agenda in a conceptual sense: you state that you are replacing the word "self-reliance" with an expression of a lack of cooperation. So in your mind, when you talk about independence, you say that organisations associated with the capital should not cooperate. There is indeed a conceptual difference between us here, and we believe that the country can develop in cooperation. This is what history teaches us; when Budapest's first golden age was XX. early 19th century, 19th century At the end of the 20th century, the actors involved were government, central administration, no matter what we call it, or the city was able to develop with the cooperation of local government actors. When we say that Budapest is the capital of the nation and the home of the people of Budapest, this is not only an empty expression, but also a strategic target, which, in this context, distinguishes our view of Budapest from the previous concept before 2010. We think that, on the one hand, the capital of the nation must be the city, which means that in an international environment, we should build a capital worthy of the country, and otherwise it should be a city that functions well, which the people of Budapest can be proud of, and in which the people of Budapest feel at home. By the way, XX. 1st and 19th century. At the end of the century, city builders had the exact same goals. So I don't see anything in this that you've said, and I actually think you're saying things that aren't in there to help you prepare for the municipal election campaign. On the other hand, the reality is that since 2010 Budapest has received more than HUF 2100 billion in development, HUF 700 billion in development of public transport alone, and there is a four-page project list in front of me, which, if I read it, would take the five-minute speech. I will read a few of them for example only: Liszt Academy, University of Physical Education, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Erkel Theatre, Matthias Church, Buda Vigadó directly say things that we don't usually say, Széll Kálmán tér, Ludovika Campus, Duna Arena [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] , renovation of Millenáris, Kopasi dam, Buda Castle, Karmelita monastery, Fővám tér, Kossuth tér, Pest bridgehead of Erzsébet bridge, the Liget project, and others. So, in fact, the history of the last eight years, as opposed to the history of the previous more than eight years, is the story of the improvements that have been made. These improvements have been made. We are not talking about what is happening in the coming years, I would like to mention the next point, because you are accusing us of not cooperating with the capital when, on the occasion of the anniversary of Budapest, the government and the capital sign the agreement that is available to everyone; I have brought it to you, it must be read, it is only about how we can work together for Budapest. We'll recreate it like XX. early 19th century, 19th century At the end of the 20th century, the Council of Metropolitan Public Developments was founded on a par with veto rights. Therefore, only improvements that are agreed between the capital and the government sector can be made. This Gremium will accept the ten-year strategic urban development plan, which was not before, or, if it was, would rather ruin the capital, rather than put it on a development path. This will also be preceded and monitored by a dialogue involving professional civil society organisations. In this publicly available document, there are all the things that you have objected to, as opposed to metro 4 being the biggest corruption case in the previous city leadership at EU level, we have built metro 4; this includes the completion of the renovation of Metro 3 [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] This includes the extension of the completion of the renovation, thus guaranteeing an even wider renovation; here are all the public services issues that you have covered, and which are about the right way for the Municipality of Budapest, for the districts of Budapest and for the government to make these improvements so that the city, as I said at the beginning, is a home for the nation's capital and for the people of Budapest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We simply cannot support or do anything about speeches on municipal elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Mr Sándor Burány has applied for a speech before the agenda, entitled "On current affairs" from the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For days, the country and world have been guessing how Nikola Gruevszki, former Macedonian Prime Minister, came to Hungary. What happened from the moment the government, according to its own declaration, appeared at a Hungarian foreign representation, to the point that it suddenly appeared in Hungary? How and how did the former Prime Minister come to Hungary? That's what country and world are guessing. Listening to the government here in Parliament for the last few minutes, sometimes it seems to me that the only logical way for the former Macedonian Prime Minister to come to Hungary is that he did this no different than a frog man shoved in a guy's skin. With no other logical, acceptable explanation, the government and no one else came forward in this case, except, of course, the foreign press. In recent minutes, you have been given the opportunity to tell us how and how the former Prime Minister's journey led from Hungarian foreign representation to Budapest, but you have been deliberately silent about this. Probably not by accident. We could guess which civil society organisation, which of the refugees' NGOs was so effective that it was able to solve this, and we could ask whether, by the way, the government policy that chases these civil society organisations with fire and iron is how effective it is if and if they should be effective on this issue at all, if a civil society organisation could organise it in such a way. Or how is it possible that, while the Hungarian authorities are strong enough to bring the word "exemplary to justice" into an exemplary quotation sign, the homeless people will turn a blind eye to the activities of smugglers, and perhaps thanks to smugglers, the former Prime Minister came to Hungary. None of the answers have stood up to this point. Let's just say a few things. First of all, Nikola Gruevski did not flee. He came from Macedonia, a country that, according to the official Hungarian position, is a safe country, so it is impossible to assess his case as a refugee under domestic and international law. [[11.50]] Two, he wasn't a political stalker. He wasn't a political pursuer, he was a former politician who failed an election, who was tried for corruption, and he was convicted of corruption by the Macedonian court. He did not flee the country from persecution of his political activities, but fled from serving his rightful prison sentence. We're talking about a criminal, not a persecuted politician. So we can ask the question: how, then? Well, unfortunately, I have to say that the performance of the Hungarian government in this area is shameful. First of all, he treats a criminal as a political pursuer, a convicted criminal. Two: in a credible way, as demonstrated by Western agencies and newspapers, all indications are that the Hungarian authorities brought the former Macedonian Prime Minister to Hungary. There are photos of diplomatic cars with the former Macedonian prime minister in it. The German press named those Hungarian diplomats who were suspected to have been involved in human trafficking with service diplomatic cars through countries and diplomatic cars. You have to rebut these charges or cancel them. In fact, Hungary cannot have a government that protects criminals down to the level of human smugglers when it is necessary to carry out diplomatic activities. Don't doubt it, gentlemen. If you have assisted in this way, in this way, as the suspicion has not been raised in a disproved manner, then you are fellow accomplices, your fate will be the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-19-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Firstly, once again, I would like to confirm that you are criticising something that occurs in other Western European countries. Yes, for political reasons, there are former Heads of State or Government, diplomats in Belgium, Germany, France, Great Britain and other places. I just want to make it clear that, yes, there are. These are not easy situations, but there are cases where the odds are that someone who was the head of state or government of a particular state, perhaps a member of government or diplomat, was persecuted for political reasons. That is exactly what the international system is about, which, by the way, illegal immigrants that you support are constantly playing out. That is precisely what the international system is all about, that in such cases there is an adequate legal environment and appropriate procedures to enable these requests to be decided objectively and responsibly, in foreign policy, diplomatic and humanitarian terms. As we say to you once again, I am obliged to repeat myself in this regard: neither the Hungarian State nor the authorities helped Nikola Gruevski get out of Macedonia. I would like to ask that the disinformation campaign on this issue, which is being conducted by opposition press products, should at least not be actively involved. The former Prime Minister of Macedonia indicated his intention to submit the application at a foreign representations. For security reasons, the Hungarian authorities have legally allowed the application for asylum and the hearing to take place at the headquarters of the Immigration and Nationality Office in Budapest. As I mentioned, the 2007 LXXX on asylum. Law 71/A. Paragraph 7 expressly excludes the application of the rules of the cross-border procedure in the event of special treatment. [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Paragraph 1 expressly excludes the application of the rules of the cross-border procedure in the event of special treatment. (Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing. So we would have broken international and domestic laws if we had done this in the opposite way. Moreover, the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals also allows entry in such cases to be carried out in an urgent, humanitarian way, in the interest of national interest, for the purpose of fulfilling international obligations. So everything has been done in accordance with the rules of Hungarian and international law, the procedure will also be carried out in this way, the circumstances will be considered in this way, and, obviously, after the procedure has been completed, more information will be available to you in this regard. I would like to add one more thing: do you raise security problems while taking a stand against the security of the Hungarian people on all immigration issues? When they say that the border lock should be broken down; when they say that, by the way, we should accept those who come to Europe illegally by means of an international distribution mechanism, Hungary will automatically receive it? So when they do, you do it again, that when there are cases like this, you do not side with the Hungarian people, but side with those who want to come to the territory of the European Union by playing the law. These are not starving children in the transit zone, as you are trying to skim this up, but these are people who are not otherwise in a humanitarian emergency, and otherwise are not entering the European continent using the legal conditions, the open channels. We do not support this type of policy, and we would like to ask the opposition in every case to support the Hungarian government's struggles in this direction, both at European level, and here in Hungary they do not like the measures to increase the security of Hungarian people. In this regard, I would like to ask that at least the disinformation campaign conducted by the opposition press should not be brought in, not once, moving in tandem, originally as a right-wing opposition and left-wing opposition, because this is what undermines Hungary's security and national security interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The new trick of the Soros network is: a migrant card, a migrant visa, from the KDNP Group, Mr Soltész Miklós applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Since the summer of 2015, 400 thousand people marched to the European Union, officially, according to the data at that time, more than one million people arrived. The opposition politicians and opposition parties have made a series of statements over the years, including in recent months, which cannot be accused of excessive consistency. For the first time, they started by saying that it's a fake problem, that migration is not real, it's a fake problem that Fidesz-KDNP is causing. Histi, fake brawl, said their various politicians, and there was one who said that Ferenc Gyurcsány in person: he would take them in for a few days. And there was a city leader, the Socialist László Botka, who wanted to take migrants to Szeged against the city. Then later, in the next period, they said that there was no quota issue. There is no and there will be no resettlement quota, for example, said the Socialist István Ujhelyi out in Brussels, and soon after that it was revealed that there was, and after that, the opposite was reported, I mean, and forced on the Hungarian society that there is a quota, it must be accepted; it does not matter which left-wing liberal party we are talking about, they all said so in a uniform manner. Then, interestingly, and, of course, in connection with terrible tragedies, they denied whether migration had anything to do with terrorism, the assassinations that affected Paris, Brussels, Nice, Berlin, Cologne, Barcelona, London, Stockholm and many other major cities in Western Europe, the lives of those who lived there had a terrible life situation; 300 dead, severe physical ones, and I must add, causing psychological injuries to all these tragedies. [[12.00]] Their proposal for a solution has become nothing else, for all of this, for all the lies that they have to support immigration, which they do. Whether the Georges Soros or the technocrats in Brussels or the opposition parties in Hungary are all voting in favour and together. It must be said that nothing discourages them, and perhaps this is the saddest, it is not deterred by the many, many tragedies that families are experiencing in some countries, and it is not deterred by the fact that there was a referendum in Hungary, millions of people said that we should thank them nicely, we do not ask for migration, and they are not deterred by the two-thirds new defeat that the country's electoral community has imposed on them. It does not discourage them in Europe that they have now clearly failed as governments, be it Austria, Germany, Sweden, Italy, and do not even realize that their supporters, who have been by their side so far, have turned away from them. However, in the assessment of migration, the left is united with György Soros, and it must be said that they are also consistent. If it doesn't work, they'll find another way. Their latest madness is the migration card and the migrant visa. The card, which is given unlimitedly to young people who have no business in the European Union, is certainly not in Hungary, but they cannot tell who controls them, who receives it, whose money, how criminals are filtered out, what terrorists are used for. Of course, I have no doubt who's getting rich from all this. There's the other one, the migration visa. It is already an interesting thing to force the European Parliament to vote again with another fraud, because they failed to vote, just like the vote on the Sargentini report when the vote was changed. Now this migration visa, disguised as a humanitarian visa, seeks to break down borders on the one hand and to completely destroy and destroy nation states on the other. It is quite clear that the Fidesz-KDNP association, together with Hungarian people and the majority of Hungarian people, can only support two solutions. One is local help in the Middle East, helping Christians in the Middle East, but even in other troubles. If we look at the demographic issue, the population problem, our answer is clearly to help with family policy instruments, and it is clear that both the migration visa and the migration card are rejected. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör responds to his statement before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, If we look at where we stand on this issue of migration, we can say that we are in a race with time and there is no sign of a change of direction in Brussels. The reason we can say this for sure is because there are a lot of proposals on the table that, if adopted, would create a system of institutions that would encourage and support migration. If someone takes the trouble to find out what proposals are on the table, what proposals are in the tube, they will find the following. A system of border protection would be adapted at the expense of Member States' powers. I propose that everyone look at how the Chancellor of Germany has spoken to the European Parliament for the second time. It was clearly in favour of restructuring border protection powers. A blue card system would be introduced to attract immigrant workers to Europe, common asylum procedures would also be introduced at the expense of Member States' powers, visas would be granted to immigrants, all of which would be justified by humanitarian need, and those arriving in Europe would continue to be distributed among Member States. Thus, the quota has not disappeared at all, and some would involve the private sector in the distribution process in order to make it even more serious. These measures are those which would perpetuate and expand immigration in Europe, who have drafted them, do not want to stop migration at all, or even expand it, for whatever reason, for political, economic or ideological reasons, regardless of the consequences. We know that the European Parliament discussed the issue of migrant visas last week. Those who followed the events should know that the proposal has not now received a majority. What's going on? They're ordering a revote. We have reason to believe that Members will be voted on until this proposal receives a majority. The second time after the Sargentini report, therefore, is raped by those who, by the way, refer to the rule of law in every street corner. On the issue of migrant cards, I would also like to say that this programme has rightly knocked out the guarantee in Hungary. It's about giving immigrants an anonymous card filled with money. There have been tens of thousands of people who have received such cards in terms of costs in billions of dollars, and this support system in itself is scandalous. No Hungarian and no European citizen would be able to receive such benefits, otherwise he would not have a chance to enter the bank and require an anonymous card. They would therefore give immigrants an allowance that a Hungarian or European citizen cannot even hope for. There's a lot of question marks around the migrant cards. We'd like some answers to some questions. How many have received such a card, what legal basis has it received, who checks the use, who checks whether these cards are not entered into unauthorized hands, or whether these cards should not fall into the hands of people who pose a security risk? And what is just as important: how much money did this cost European and Hungarian taxpayers? For this reason, we support the publication by the European Commission of all relevant information on migrant cards. In any case, it is clear why the next EU budget, in the seven-year period, would double the expenditure on migration. Dear House, These are processes that we must stop now, because we cannot allow the institutional system that encourages immigration to be finalised before the European elections. We cannot allow it, because those who force it have absolutely no democratic authority to do so. In 2014, such plans were not mentioned at all in the European election campaign at that time. Therefore, if democratic values really matter, then the Brussels institution will now stop making irresponsible legislation and wait for the decision of Europeans in May. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, * Europe S.O.S! Mr Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament, spoke before the agenda with the title of Gyula Fekete's pamphlet on the timing of his work on family protection. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! In the last few days, I sent it to all government representatives Gyula Fekete, a writer who died in 2010, one of the founders of MDF in Lakitelek S.O.S. Europe! in the July 2007 issue of the magazine Literature and Arts. Even 11 years ago, it was a shock how indifferent the developed countries of Western Europe are to preserve their own survival. Besides the beauty work of the system critic Gyula Fekete, he considered it a matter of heart from the beginning of the 1960s to alleviate the problems of mothers and families with multiple children, and to improve their fate. The alarming situation of the Hungarian population was already noticeable, but the concern for the future was far from shared by the policy of the Kádár era. Therefore, when Gyula Fekete proposed the introduction of childcare aid in the mid-sixties, he primarily gave economic and psychological reasons. Among other things, he argued: "Not only would the state be better off, but also mothers and children, and mothers who would not want to leave their professional work for years would be more secure in less crowded cradles. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[12.10]] In the book series Exploring Hungary, was Live for Us in 1970? in which Gyula Fekete summarized the statements and suggestions of about 1100 letters and suggestions of the reader's debate on family and child rearing in the weekly newspaper Lap of Women. It is my personal experience that in the 1970s, a great deal of interest was involved in writing-reading meetings in cultural homes throughout the country in connection with the debate. Gyula Fekete wanted to curb the gradual growth of the burden of raising children with professional protection. As early as 1982, he called for the establishment of the National Association of Large Families, which was not allowed until five years later. And Gyula Fekete was the one who suggested the institution of full-time motherhood early, in front of everyone else and more than anyone else. It included the expected problems of population loss in public discourse and responsible national political behaviour. The system critic Gyula Fekete became a system-shifting MDF politician, and in October 1988, the Hungarian Democratic Forum organized a highly successful population political forum in Szeged, mobilising about 1100 participants, when we demanded the abolition of taxes and levies that would make child raising impossible in order to save the Hungarian future. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last decade, the governments of the Fidesz-KDNP coalition have largely dismantled tax and tax systems, housing and employment policies that make it difficult to raise children. It is our historic responsibility that Gyula Fekete's valid ideas and vision continue to determine our family policy, slowing down and stopping dramatic population loss, and also our foreign policy effort to ensure that other countries in Europe hope for the survival of their economies, not from migration, from the employment of immigrants, but from the commitment and training of their children and grandchildren. S.O.S. Europe! The pamphlet of Gyula Fekete gives strength to our future parliamentary work, from which I will also send copies to opposition representatives on request. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to Mr Vice-President's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, I, too, received this pamphlet, and it was truly shocking to read how two generations ago it was possible to see precisely the threat to Europe that some of Europe's leaders do not see today. So not only did they not read it 44 years ago, but they still refuse to face reality today, when we hear from Jean-Claude Juncker that anyone who rejects the UN's pending compact didn't actually read it, because they continue to speak here, primarily driven by the self-consciousness of the liberals, that anyone who disagrees with it doesn't really understand the processes of the world and cannot accept that there is a different resolution than what they have been doing here in Europe for years with the violent force of immigration. Because we and this can also be seen in the national consultation on families in support of families raising children, not in immigration. We believe in people, we believe in Hungarian people, we believe in European people, we believe in European families, and we believe that it is the responsibility of governments to break down obstacles between them and having children, because the Hungarian nation is also a child-loving nation, a family-friendly nation, every survey shows that Hungarians want children, they want more children than they do overall. That is why it is important for the state to remove obstacles. This is also what the national consultation on support for families raising children is about to ask people what the directions they consider to be the most important are, what the obstacles they have seen are that they have rolled between family and childbearing. If the state can break them down because it can help them to take on the first child sooner; it can help large families receive special support; it can help to help even parents who care for their children in a special situation at home; it can help with home creation, then the state can do so. It is able to do so financially because it does not want to devote its resources to migration that are available. Everyone can decide what they want, as the Prime Minister said at MÁÉRT, what the German Christian Democratic Party, the Secretary-General of the CDU said that within a few years we cannot recognize the cities of Europe, because there will be so many immigrants there that the culture, everyday life and customs of large cities will be determined entirely by people who have settled here through migration, and not by the indigenous population, Germans, French and others, who have lived there for hundreds or thousands of years. Do we want to do this? Is this the direction we can accept that the cities of Western Europe, west of the Lajta, are all transformed into multicultural cities, but is it really a tension-filled non-European life form? What is important to us is that we protect our own country, our own country and Central Europe from this, and here we preserve the European way of life that we consider to be the best way of life. An important success in this is the important success of family-friendly governance in the last eight years, with an average of 115 children born by 200 parents in 2010, with nearly 150 children born by 200 parents. This shows that these efforts have not been in vain. There has been considerable effort, since we have increased funding for support for families from HUF 1000 billion to HUF 2000 billion between 2010 and next year's budget, but there are already signs of this. They are not as big as we would like, as we want 200 parents to have more than 200 children, but at least we have moved from 115 to 150. We also see that many still have the fear of what will happen if a Balolda government returns and retakes the family support that it took during the Bokros package and that it took after it during the Medgyessy and Gyurcsány era. This is why it is also important that the national consultation includes two thirds of family support, since the socialists, the left-wing people, who now act in a single block, have sometimes taken away the tax relief for the first and second children. They took the most of it first from the ones with one child and two children, and then, of course, the three children reduced it. They took the baby for the third year, narrowed it down to two years. They took away the support for home creation, the soccer team at the time, but even from the point of view of childbirth, especially the most important Schöpf-Merei Hospital in terms of troublesome childbirth, so that it would not even be a solid support for families in the first months of childbearing, pregnancy, childbirth and the child. [[László Varju intervenes.]] That is why it was important for us to restore the three-year lawn and introduce tax and contribution reductions for 95 percent of families. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the ged extra, the CSOK and many other measures. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's why fewer children are born with you.]]
u2018-11-19-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. This day's speech was submitted to Serbian minority speaker Alexov Lyubomir Fideszes Fónagy, János Fideszes Fónagy, János Fideszes Magyar Zoltán Jobbikos, Anita Potocskané Kőrösi Jobbikos, Dániel Z. Kárpát Jobbikos, László Tasó Fideszes, László György Lukács Jobbikos, Ander Balázs Jobbikos, Imre László DK-s, László Hajdu DK-s, Sándor Székely DK-s, Katalin Csöbör fideszes, István Szvávay Jobbikos, Márta Demeter LMP-s, Antal Csárdi LMP-s and Péter Ungár. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's 12:19. We will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When will the waste mafia be eliminated? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a minister without a wallet responsible for the national asset management of Bartfai-Mager Andrea, who, at his request, will receive the answer from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.20]]
u2018-11-19-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, National Waste Management Co-ordinator and Asset Management Ltd. is known in the popular language only as kukahladding. from week to week, it provides a new topic for our speeches. This time, the press was loud because the company was entrusted with a four-person company registered in a pub in a village called Nagykálló, which had only HUF 19 million in turnover in 2017. So it is a micro enterprise with a minimum turnover, yet it could win a 7.6 billion-dollar tender, although it is true that together with the Toll Picker Zrt., but it is a question of why this company was needed, the owner of which may live in Kisvárda, where Miklós Seszták, then Minister for Development, was also born, who approved that Kukahlading could outsource this collection. It's a bit of a coincidence. And there are even more coincidences when we hear that this company started organizing its collection network before they announced its results to the tender. How could it even be launched in public procurement, since the NAV has also launched implementation against it in the past? There is also a question of how he could have started, how he could have won, what was the role of the Award Picker Zrt. in addition to a small enterprise in the recovery of outstanding amounts. There are a lot of questions, as the NAV is obliged to collect the outstanding waste transfer fees as a public debt under the law, but we know that the delay was due to the fault of the kukhading, because the billing program was bought from the Garancsi for 700 million, it did not work, they could only send out the invoices with months or years of delay. Since then, this company has been characterised by a rather scandalous operation. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State, and I hope that we will have a meaningful answer as to when to eliminate this scandalous system, when to put order in the field of kukaholding, when to stop this waste mafia. Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2018-11-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd be happy to inform you of today's situation. Local solid waste is transported across the country in a professional and paced manner, and is lagging behind in this area, so the municipal solid waste is no longer present. Indeed, transport from some selective collection sites is currently even smaller, with a few days delay. What happened anyway? Zöldhíd Kft., which supplies from 116 settlements, tried to sabotage the operation of waste shipments for political reasons, even though it received state funding. Putting the government in charge of all this. The managing director of the company has now seen his political Kurdar and resigned. The next day, he was followed by a man who also left the Green Bridge. I would also like to reassure the Member and the public, using this opportunity, that the government has assessed the situation with its previous decision, marked the people responsible and provided the financial resources needed to resolve the situation. By the way, the invoicing method you mentioned has actually created anomalies, which are in the process of being eradicated. The entire system of invoicing is expected to be restored by the first quarter of 2019. So, in answer to your question, when the waste problems will be eliminated, I report that we have resolved the shipment and that we will have to wait a few more weeks for invoicing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When will the court's verdict be met? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Tóth has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2011, on the basis of an independent motion from a Fidesz Member, Parliament adopted a bill aimed at centralising the sale of certain public transport services through a mobile payment system and placing it in the hands of a public company set up for this purpose. The National Mobile Payment Company was then founded. However, the possibility of paying with a mobile device is a service for which the European Union sets out several requirements. The most important of these is the principle of freedom of establishment. On this basis, self-employed and professional workers legally engaged in activities in a Member State may engage in economic activities in any Member State of the European Union. This was the principle that Hungary violated by monopolising mobile payments. As a result, infringement proceedings were initiated against the Hungarian State, and the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that Hungary had infringed the requirement of freedom of establishment and thereby infringed the relevant directive of the European Union. The Hungarian State itself acknowledged that it would have had the opportunity to choose a solution that would have less restrictive economic competition, i.e. less limited the possibility of a better, more efficient and cheaper solution. On the basis of the judgment, Hungary should terminate the infringement situation as soon as possible and the current system of mobile payments should be adapted. If you fail to do so, you can impose financial sanctions on our country. With these in mind, I ask the Secretary of State: how are you planning to transform the mobile payment system? What deadline did the Hungarian State receive for the transformation of the system? Finally, when will Hungary comply with the judgment? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2018-11-19-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before 1 July 2014, the domestic mobile payment market was dominated by a single monopoly company, whose operation was rightly subject to serious criticism. The company belonging to the moonyard of the left-wing parties provided mobile payment services only in areas where it was profitable for it. It defined the price and quality of the service only with regard to its own profits. The system was closed, based on expensive, outdated solutions for the consumer. The government recognised the problems with mobile payments and launched the national mobile payment system on 1 July 2014 in order to address them. The new system eliminated maladministration and increased service quality. Today we can use an internet-based mobile payment network covering the whole country. With the help of more than 20 resellers, the service reaches consumers under competitive conditions. The number of users is constantly increasing. Of course, we could expect only the usual pace on this issue from the left and the companies close to it: they are trying to make a well-functioning national solution impossible in cooperation with Brussels. On this issue, the Court of Justice of the European Union, as you mentioned, undoubtedly delivered a judgment on 7 November 2018, but I would ask the Member to reconsider his resources from the point of view of credibility. I would like to inform you that the national mobile payment system, as a single public service mobile payment platform, is legal in itself, and that only when the system was introduced, the court debated a legal solution. The resulting judgment will be respected and implemented in the manner agreed with the European Commission, for which the court has not set a time limit. However, it can already be said that the results of the single national mobile payment system will continue to help people in their daily lives. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Prime Minister's Chief of Staff a question:. The former Prime Minister of Macedonia has also bought a settlement policy? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Károly Kontra will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.30]]
u2018-11-19-41	I welcome it, because perhaps I can count on the fact that, instead of the substantive answers so far, it was just a proud lecture that we might now receive a meaningful reply, because last week it became certain that the former Macedonian Prime Minister, who was sentenced to prison for two years in his own country, came to Hungary without a passport, as an illegal immigrant. So far, criminals, terrorists, spies have come to Hungary, which is actually how they arrive with a settlement obligation. They have nothing to do but to pay nearly HUF 100 million to a Fidesz-near offshore company dealing with a settlement obligation, and it is now free to go to Hungary, the European Union. This was the case in Hungary earlier, according to press information, Salmo Bazkka, who was suspected by the Italian authorities of being a member of an international criminal organization that was involved in laundering money. But they also gave settlement bonds to Sergei Nariskin's family, who happens to be a leader of Russian intelligence, and you also sold settlement bonds to a key figure in the Russian underworld, the dreaded Dimitri Borisovich Pavlov. Unfortunately, I only have two minutes, so I can't list every criminal who's been found to be admitted to the country with your settlement policy. However, the line is long, and it fits with the two years of former Macedonian prime minister sentenced to prison for misdemeanor abuse. By the way, with the installation bond, you will kill two birds with one stone: on the one hand, you will give free movement to criminals, terrorists, spies, on the other hand, and on the other hand, you will collect the hundred million forints of sharks from them in an official manner. If the former Macedonian Prime Minister had bought a settlement policy, it would explain why he got into the country so easily. So I ask the Secretary of State: did the former Prime Minister of Macedonia, fleeing prison, buy a resettlement policy from you? Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have said, Mr Károly Kontra will answer your question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The answer to your question is definitely no. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office what measures are being taken to eradicate the traffic chaos in Budapest? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The nerves of the Budapesters have been ruffled for a long time by the investment-related roadblocks, which basically turn the daily traffic of people living in the city and the agglomeration area into hell. In order to take into account only the most extraordinary cases: the conditions have developed and are stable in the southern Budapest region, where the plugs have become unbearable. Due to the various, otherwise desirable road renovation works and road closures, already in the summer he was practically paralyzed from the direction of the transport Csepel. By car or bus it means several hours to enter Budapest from Szigetszentmiklós, Halásztelek or Tököl because of the huge congestion. The situation has clearly been caused by human failure, since there has been no consultation between the contractors of the various road constructions or the municipalities concerned. On the day of the start of the school year and for many weeks after that, sometimes even to this day, these cases made it almost impossible for metropolitan transport. To mention some examples: a semi-tracked road closure between Villányi út and the BAH node, a lane restriction and parking ban from the Közlőhíd to Népliget on the Hungária körút, as well as a lane restriction between Oktogon and the Thirty-Twelfth Square, as in Section XVI. in the district, a one-way section of Csömöri út, which otherwise ended in the days, and the one-way of Etele út. The list could continue for hours. In the context of investments, it can be said that they are timed without expected foresight and organisation, and that there is no attempt to reconcile parallel investments in order to avoid traffic chaos. For the above reasons, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary what steps are being taken to eradicate the traffic chaos in Budapest. Are there any pressure on the metropolitan and district authorities to organise road renovations and investments taking into account the interests of the people living here?
u2018-11-19-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-47	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to ask you that this is just a technical matter for me to discuss with your fellow Member, because he has just protested that we are putting pressure on the capital from the government side, and you are asking us to put pressure on the government side. [[Márta Demeter: Don't confuse him, Mr. Secretary.]] I understand everything. All I can do is face a single statement. By the way, we are thinking that there is no need and no need to put pressure on the capital. The problems associated with car transport, mentioned by you, are indeed problems, but they belong to the category of good problems, as they are due to continuous road renovation and continuous public transport development programmes. I wish these problems could have been seen through the cooperation between the city leadership before 2010 and the then government. This is due to the fact that since 2010 we have spent HUF 2100 billion on Budapest development together with the capital [[Gergely Harvesto: You can't see it!]] European Union funds and domestic funds, of which transport development was HUF 700 billion. They are indeed causing disruptions from the point of view of transport organisation. [[Márta Demeter: Not too little!]] But I think it is in the interest of the Budapest people to make these investments as soon as possible, as smoothly and as widely as possible. We are constantly supporting these investments from the state's side, and we are organizing further such investments for the coming years, in the perspective of a four-year plan, a ten-year plan. As far as I know, the proper traffic management bodies of the capital and the appropriate authorities of the state are constantly cooperating, and as far as I can see, they are constantly responding to the situations that arise. We hope that this cooperation will be fruitful in the future [[The president's ringing the bell.]] so you can continue with the renovations you mentioned. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister:. Why does the government discriminate against Hungarians working abroad? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The government has recently tabled an amendment to the electoral law, in which it would give the right to vote to Hungarian citizens living in a non-EU country. The Dialogue supports the participation of as many Hungarian citizens as possible in the European Parliament elections. The proposal refers to a Council decision, but it treats this Council decision in a rather arbitrary and selective manner: what is in favour of Fidesz will be taken over from this which is not favourable and which is not. The EU decision is about ensuring that European citizens participate as much as possible in the elections to the European Parliament, so it explicitly highlights alternative ways of voting, voting by letter, electronic voting and voting on the Internet, but the vote on the Internet is no longer mentioned in the bill. The letter provides a vote, but not for all Hungarian citizens residing abroad. According to the Dialogue, voting in the letter should also be ensured for our fellow countrymen working abroad, which is also due to them. For this reason, the Dialogue proposed an amendment, which would eliminate discrimination among voters residing abroad, but with a Hungarian address, so that they can vote in a letter in the future. Our goal is not to have a double standard, not to distinguish between Hungarian citizens and Hungarian citizens, but the Fidesz majority voted against this proposal on the Judicial Committee. So my question is why the government discriminates against Hungarians working abroad. Why does the government not support the amendment of the Dialogue so that our fellow countrymen working abroad can vote by letter? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2018-11-19-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-51	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The bill, to which you are referring, is indeed about the possibility for Hungarian citizens to vote in the context of elections to the European Parliament in a third country, i.e. in a Member State outside the European Union. This is, in our view, a hiatus, an old problem that had to be resolved, and we are pleased that EU and international legal documents support this. However, the problem raised by you is another issue, because here the regulation proposed by you and your party would bring about an unconstitutional situation, as the Hungarian Constitutional Court said, and as Fidesz-KDNP said earlier when adopting the related electoral procedural law. [[12.40]] In fact, there is a difference between the electoral groups that, on the day of the vote, is who is residing abroad or who is resident in Hungary, but there is a difference between who is resident in Hungary and who is not resident in Hungary. Under the Fundamental Law and the electoral laws, who resides in Hungary, he has two votes, one vote for the individual representative and the other vote for the party list; those who do not reside in Hungary only have the right to vote on the list. These are two distinct groups. No distinction can be made between the two groups because it would lead to an unconstitutional situation. That would mean that if you were to visit Bratislava on election day, you would be able to vote in a letter if you didn't visit Bratislava and you wouldn't vote in a letter. We cannot and must not resolve this situation in this way. Moreover, the new types of methods you have mentioned, we believe, in their present form, are not yet to be supported in terms of voting and national security considerations. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:, What are the results of the positive measures introduced in recent years in the case of SMEs, and what further business-friendly measures to promote economic growth can be expected? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ovadi has the floor, please.
u2018-11-19-53	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the government's business-friendly policy and cooperation with the entrepreneurial sphere have made great progress in many areas. It is not only true that entrepreneurs pay less taxes every year, but also that Hungarian companies, for example, pay the lowest corporate tax in the European Union. Both the economic results of the government's actions, the stability and balance of growth, show that the country is moving in the right direction. There is no better proof of this than the specific tax on small-tax enterprises introduced in January 2013, i.e. kata. Its advantage is that entrepreneurs who choose to do so can tax under a simplified system. This means not only a fixed monthly tax that can be planned in advance, but also a reduction in administration. The success of the new form of taxation is supported by the fact that in the five years since its introduction, if I look only at my own constituency, it can be said that there is a steady and steep increase in the number of individual businesses at national level. Last year nearly 70,000 individual companies were registered in Hungary, 20% more than in 2016, and more than twice as much as in 2012. In Veszprém County 2695 individual companies were registered in 2013, more than 6,000 in 2016, which today increased by 2300, i.e. in Veszprém County more than three times the number of individual entrepreneurs in the last five years. Thanks to Kata, he has now grown into one of the most popular economic forms, so much so that the number of voters who voted for Kata has now exceeded 300,000. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what concrete results are in the introduction of kata and kiva [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] what additional measures are expected to affect businesses, which will continue to contribute to the growth of the economy in the coming years. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-55	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's priorities include reducing the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, reducing tax bureaucracy and reducing the tax burden. This is also important because the small and medium-sized enterprise sector in Hungary employs about two thirds of the workforce. They deserve important, special attention from the government. That is why in 2013 the specific tax of the taxpayers mentioned by you was introduced, i.e. the kata, which was essentially designed for individual businesses, for the lawyers' offices and the deposit companies consisting of members of the natural person. The popularity of this is now undisputed, as you have said that 300,000 people have already chosen it, more than one third of the number of businesses. Yes, the advantage is minimal administration and minimal public burden. But it will also have another advantage from 2019, as the threshold for subject VAT exemption will be raised from HUF 8 million to HUF 12 million. This is exactly the same as the kata threshold, so this will be beneficial for many businesses, since they no longer have to deal with VAT. The same is the case, in essence, with the exclusion, which, in turn, is a very beneficial accounting and tax form for social enterprises, since there is no tax to be paid on reinvested profits and, in fact, the public burden of wages is reduced from the general rate of 21 per cent to 13 per cent. Today, the number of voters exceeds 30,000. I can tell Mr President that the government is constantly working to find a tax environment favourable to the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question: "Do you support the principle of equal pay for equal work? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Last time I asked the government about the tragic wage situation in the break-down parts of the country, I was told that wages in these parts of the country were above average, so I shouldn't worry too much about the workers who live here. Since you clearly don't believe me, I've asked the employees all over the country to write on my social media site how much you actually earn, how much is a top-notch salary increase. Allow me some examples, Mr. Secretary. Valerie from Szabolcs says she's ironing a clothing factory for 100,000 forints. Maria Borsod for 120,000 forints. Ferenc Szolnok County, after 43 years of employment, works for 130 thousand forints. Ildikó medicinal masseur brings home 98,000 forints in a hospital in Borsod, and I can give you more examples, Mr. Secretary of State. I don't think you should tell me that wages are above average, tell these workers to their eyes that their wages have risen above average. Of course, there is a positive example. Tímea, for example, takes home 580,000 forints as a nurse. Oops! Surprising, isn't it, Mr. Secretary? No, no surprise Tímea works in Munich. Of course, you don't have to go this far to get a lot more for the same job. For example, József, who was a warehousekeeper in Borsod, was able to bring home 158 thousand forints, now earning 340 thousand in Budaörs. At István Nógrád, who is over 60 years old, he earns 176 thousand as CNC machine operator, and at the 23-year-old Krisztián Győr he can bring 400,000 forints home for the same job. One tram driver drives the tram in Miskolc for 180,000 forints, and in Budapest he can take it home between 250-440 thousand forints. Mr. Secretary. So this is reality, not what you're being written in the Ministry. So I respectfully ask you, now that you have a little insight into the Hungarian daily life, are you willing to support the proposal for a resolution that I submitted to catch up on the wages of those in the coming parts of the country in order to achieve equal pay for equal work. Yes or no support? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2018-11-19-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Thank you very much for your repeated question on this subject. I would like to inform you that the specific answer was not to grow above average, but to grow more in proportion than the national average. And I can clearly see from your question that you are prepared on this subject, so you must know that the bargaining of market players is the determining factor in the development of wages. [[Peter James: And the Ukrainians!]] and the government obviously has an opportunity to intervene there, such as setting the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, or regulating the rate of taxes. I'm glad that the people you listed are getting these amounts, but I'm asking you to ask them about that, too. [[Interventions from the benches of Jobbik, including Tamás Pintér: They are not happy!]] How much they earned, say, 10 years ago, 8 years ago, because we need to see the specific figure that has happened in recent years, because the minimum wage has risen to HUF 138 thousand and the guaranteed minimum wage to HUF 180 500. [[12.50]] Of course, there is no debate between us, no matter how much he tries to show that there are serious territorial differences in the country. In Eastern Hungary, in the capital and in Western Hungary, there is indeed no equal remuneration, but government measures point in the direction of reducing this difference. Whether it is supported by employment support from employment departments or improvements that point to an increase in economic performance in these areas, and, of course, the increase in wages will be made. As I mentioned earlier, this is not just a Hungarian problem. There is no country, believe me, Congressman, where equal wages would be equal. Of course, we in Eastern Hungary are not at all comforted by this, so we must continue to support it, and I also ask you to support the government measures that serve the development of these regions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: "Do you make workers more vulnerable? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Szabó has the floor, please.
u2018-11-19-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Unfortunately, what has been feared for many years has happened to be the abolition of labour courts. According to one of the proposals discussed last week, from 2020, independent labour courts will have to be integrated into the ordinary court system, regardless of the fact that years ago a group of labour judges already stated that in a well-functioning market economy and in Hungary, you believe that it is necessary to have a judicial procedure, a predictable uniform case-law on labour. It is also incomprehensible why independent labour courts should be abolished, since they would be perfectly suitable for administrative courts. This decision will result in a deterioration of the professionalism of labour justice, and, of course, ultimately, will lead to greater vulnerability of workers and workers. This would not be an individual case, since we saw in 2012, when the labour code was changed, how workers' rights were impaired, how trade unions' powers were impaired, how workers' working conditions were made more difficult and could still be classified. It is worth mentioning a few examples of the cases that have taken place in recent years, for which such an effective judicial procedure will not be possible. For example, a 20-year-old young person whose arms were torn off by a trench machine not properly maintained by the employer will not be able to claim compensation in a labour court, and neither will the man who was crushed by the press in a factory on Saturday, or who was illegally fired by his boss' employer. For this reason, I think it is right to ask why the independent labour courts, which are the most competent to represent the professionalism of labour justice, should be destroyed. How do they ensure that workers continue to be adequately protected and not at the mercy of their employers? Are there plans to ensure the conditions of workers by strengthening trade union rights? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-11-19-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-63	Thank you very much. Just so that there is no misunderstanding about my previous sentence: my joy is that these workers are able to benefit from the labour market, not in public employment. [[László Varju: Restrict them!]] Thank you very much, but the restriction is not your jurisdiction, Congressman. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] Labour justice in Hungary has never been fully organized. Currently, at first instance, administrative and labour courts with county jurisdiction at the same level as district courts and, secondly, tribunals act in labour law disputes. According to the bill on the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts and certain transitional rules, administrative and labour courts will cease to exist, but the courts of ordinary courts will act as labour courts in the first instance. This solution ensures an increase in the prestige of the labour court and also expresses a higher appreciation of labour judges. The draft ensures that accumulated labour judicial experience is maintained in the labour regional colleges. Detailed rules of procedure for labour litigation will be drawn up by the Government in the review of the legal system necessary for the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts. The administration of ordinary and administrative courts is separate in several countries of Europe, so there are examples of this in several countries, as I mentioned. Workers' labour law protection is widely ensured by the Labour Code, as the government paid particular attention to workers' interests when it was created. It's obviously a fuse. Of course, in the event of a worker infringement, the labour authorities can be contacted by the person concerned. The employee's claim from the employment relationship will continue to be enforced before the court. It is therefore clear from what has been said that the Government has always taken account of the interests of workers and their representation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: 'Do you really not feel anything, or is there only money? It's an address. Mr President, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is competent and responsible on the subject. At the request of Minister Tamás Menczer, State Secretary will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I listened with interest to today's parliamentary debate, because one self-goal was kicked after another. Fidesz MEPs will obviously understand that expression. For example, there was the expression of Mrs Sargentini again as a curse. Once again, I would like to say that you have appointed Manfred Weber as the top leader of the Hungarian People's Party, or have proposed and voted in favour of the Sargentini report. In addition, the expression "refugees" has often been said in today's debate. I looked into it, in 2001 Viktor Orbán said at an AmChem dinner that millions of immigrants had to be brought into Hungary in order to keep the results of the economy. I didn't say that, Viktor Orbán, anyone can look back on 2001, Google, and everyone will find it. So once again, Viktor Orbán: millions of immigrants must be brought into Hungary. And speaking of immigration, you managed to bring in an immigrant, it's called Gruevski, who, by the way, was sentenced to two years in prison in his own country. Strange as it may be, it must be said that government officials are accomplices in smuggling people, because we find it impossible that Viktor Orbán knew and could arrive in Hungary without his consent. Someone had to instruct the Hungarian embassy workers what kind of car and how to get this man to Hungary. You must take serious responsibility for this. The question is, what did it cost us? We saw that beating an Armenian man with an axe was enough for a man named Safarov to be a folk hero in his own country. You also received money for this. Then there was another criminal named Pharaon, who said he didn't have any fingerprints. Now there's this other criminal, this next round. I therefore believe that you are complicit in this matter. I'd like to ask the responder not to do a ring, because we didn't want to bring this Macedonian man in. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-19-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Among all the things you've told me, I've also understood what a football expert you've become. We are happy to confirm this fact. However, my answer has not yet been affected, so I ask you not to expand beyond your jurisdiction. As I understand it, the Democratic Coalition today here in the Parliament has now started some sort of political and moral appeal. The fact that the Democratic Coalition is going to do whatever it wants is somewhere between the amazing and the awesome. As State Secretary Orbán and State Secretary Dömötör have already said, everything about the case you have referred to is in accordance with the law, and if the former Macedonian Prime Minister is to receive asylum, if not, it will also happen in accordance with the legislation. However, it may also be worth seeing who they are, which party is calling us to account for. And look, here comes your favorite part, your party president, the former Prime Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, a man who lied in the morning, night and night. We know that. Then you want to take a moral stand. You want to take any political action after, for example, you have destroyed the country in every sense with your attached parts, the MSZP. You want to start a moral appeal by constantly instigating against Hungarians across the border. [[Gergely Harvesto: Answer the question!]] Furthermore, the Democratic Coalition is a strategic partner of the Ukrainian government in attacks against Hungarians across the border. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] You want to start a political and moral appeal by inviting migrants into your home, but you get chills from Hungarians across the border. [[13.00]] You want to start a political and moral appeal by inviting migrants into your home, but you get chills from Hungarians across the border. You want to start a political and moral appeal because your party partner, Tamás Bauer, beloved and beloved, supported the resettlement of migrants against the Hungarians, the Hungarian families who raised the child the other day. By the way, the way you want to go on record is that you're famous with nocical and whiskey boxes along with the MSZP. From your request, thank you, we don't ask. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-19-68	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology: what about the disposal and energy recovery of the city's sewage sludge? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I know that waste management is now the victim of our invention and conspiracy, and all we do with my fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, is forging the books of the waste companies at night, but if he could answer this specific question differently, he would honor both Parliament and the people who chose us here. The fact is that I learned very well from Zoltán Illés at the Central European University that there must be unity at all levels of the waste pyramid, all levels must be considered on the basis of sustainability. Proper treatment of sewage sludge is something that the government has repeatedly promised, which would be fundamental in ensuring that energy is sustainable in Hungary and that waste management is also resolved. Strategy, government decisions have all been made, and the strategy has worked very well, because there are two of them made, but both are in someone's desk. There is a government decision on the construction of a new combustion plant that would use sewage sludge from the waste water sites in the capital city. This is 1738/2017. a government decision, and this is about a COHEP contest. The fact is, however, the deadlines set out in this KEHOP contest are not met, we do not know whether HUHA 2 will be ready or when it will be ready. Exactly how much do they slide with it? What will this slide mean for waste pyramid and waste management in Budapest? I mean, what's the reason for the slip, who's the person responsible? Why don't you keep your promise? How's the licensing process going? And who will be replaced by the source they would have received from a different source? These are my specific questions, please answer these questions. So not Gyenes Szilárd and György Gémesi, but HUHA 2. when will it be built, how, how much money, why, and why not? Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like the answer to that, Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The first sentence of confession, I suppose, was intended as a joke, and I hope the rest of the sentences you have spoken, not the thought of it, so I will try to answer your question with sufficient seriousness. The Government has already made clear, when adopting the Renewable Energy Action Plan, that it considers it important to exploit biodegradable primary waste materials, in particular their energy recovery. Solutions such as biogas plants, heat-use options for biogas waste, biogas-powered public transport or pyrogas plants serving on-site needs will help meet both sustainability and competitiveness goals. In particular, they provide opportunities for actors in the agricultural sector to generate additional income and increase added value. The project proposal referred to by the Member, drawn up on the basis of similar principles, is currently under review as part of a regular review of the annual development framework for EU development. In view of the challenges posed by this project, 1374/2017 on the tasks related to the major projects planned for the 2014-2020 programming period from EU funds. According to the provisions of Government Decision No 21, the Government and the specialty examines the possibility of carrying out the investment. Therefore, the answer to your question is that, at the moment, the investigation of the investment is ongoing. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2018-11-19-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before we go any further, I would like to thank you for your cooperation, I would like to present the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2018-11-19-73	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question: -Why are children of poor families being punished? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Kásler, Minister of Human Resources, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, answers the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State. For years, the Dialogue has stressed the need to radically increase the family allowance that has been unchanged for ten years. Family allowances are the only universal, unconditional support available to all families with children and would thus be able to reduce child poverty and the poverty of families with children, which is today one of the main obstacles to childbearing, with an appropriate amount of support. According to the Dialogue, a doubling of the family allowance would be necessary to achieve meaningful results. To this end, we have tabled a number of amendments to the budget, which the Fidesz majority has rejected. In their reasoning, you always say that you consider tax relief for children to be more appropriate to support families with children. Now recent research data show that the so-called family tax relief system is deeply unfair. Policy Agenda calculates that the lower half of society, or 48 percent, can use as much family tax relief as the top 10 percent. That is, Fidesz provides the wealthy with nearly five times as much support per capita for child rearing through tax incentives as it does for the lower half of society. You give the rich kids five times as much as the parents of the poorer kids. The literature calls this a perverted redistribution; people simply call it unspeakable injustice. Mr. Secretary. Why are children of lower middle class and poorer families being punished? How long will this blatantly unjust practice continue? I look forward to your reply.
u2018-11-19-75	Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Secretary of State, please.
u2018-11-19-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I think it pleased the Parliament that it can communicate in complex sentences here within the walls of the Parliament. That's a positive today. [[Defiance.]] The government's goal is to help as many families as possible. Obviously, for those with even greater difficulty than the average, provide additional assistance. The results of this are also visible, as it can be seen from various Eurostat methodology reports, and I quote you literally that the greatest improvement in child poverty has been achieved between 2012 and 2017. This, I'm telling you, is a conclusion based on Eurostat methodology. During this period, between 12 and 17 people under the age of 18 have decreased relative income poverty from 23,8 per cent to 14,8 per cent. So to a considerable extent, we can say that there is a 40% reduction in exposure to poverty here. And they add that not only children, but also the total population, the number of people living in extreme poverty has fallen by 375 thousand and nearly 400 thousand. These are the real data of the past years, honourable Member, precisely because we are, of course, helping everyone; because we need to not only be able to have children, but also to raise them. And the benefit of raising children is not the perspective you offer, it is the job, the wage and the tax and contribution allowance that is clearly available, which reaches 95 percent of the families. So almost every family can use it. This is why we have placed great emphasis on job creation in recent years. For the best poverty policy, as Ronald Reagan, the most popular president of the United States, has already said, is job creation. This is what we did, and besides it, we wanted and were able to provide additional help for families raising children from many, many, many, many billions of sources with free textbooks, free children's meals, and many other benefits in kind. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.10]]
u2018-11-19-77	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, an independent congresswoman, wishes to ask the Attorney General:. Why have the Encsi lynchmen been released despite the request of the police? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2018-11-19-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, Recently, in the town of Encs in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, a motorist who accidentally hit a child playing on the street without supervision was seriously abused. The driver stopped to help, and the people there wanted to literally lynch him. It was just a coincidence that the incident in Italy didn't happen again, and there was no fatality here. This kind of crime is, unfortunately, becoming more common in some subcultural contexts. In Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County alone, it has been repeated at least once a year in the last six years: from 2013, a similar incident occurred in Ongán, Felsőzsolcán, Sóstófalva, Boldván, Sályon and Encsen in 2018. But if you look at not only the most affected county, you can also refer to the cases of Tisana, Györössian, Nyírmihálydi, Nyírkatai, the villages of the field, Irányi, Visei, and Debrecen, where similar acts have taken place in recent years. It would be good to put a stop to this process, but it also requires an attitude of the authorities to tell those who committed these crimes that the law will strike them in the strictest possible way possible. However, despite the request of the police, the Encsi District Attorney has inexplicably released the suspects. Does the D.A.'s office consider the prosecution of Encs to be an appropriate decision? I am also asking, do you consider it necessary to amend legislation in order to allow for more stringent action by the authorities? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2018-11-19-79	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr. Ervin Belovics, Deputy Attorney General. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In Encsi Police Department, an investigation into serious assault and other crimes has been initiated, during which the investigating authority has detained two of the defendants and has indeed presented a motion for their arrest. It should be known that arrest is the most serious measure of coercion, which can only be applied in the cases provided for in the Criminal Procedure Act and in the conditions laid down by law. The imposition of an emergency measure is not only a condition that the criminal offence on which the proceedings are based should be punishable by imprisonment, it is equally essential to have one of the specific reasons for the arrest. In the specific case, none of the specific reasons for the arrest were considered by the prosecutor in Encs, i.e. there was no factual evidence of the real risk of repeated crime, of preventing evidence, of escape or of hiding. The detention of others from crime, i.e. general prevention, can take place through the legal disadvantage applied to the crime committed, which cannot be controlled by arrest. The current Code of Criminal Procedure contains appropriate provisions to ensure the effective conduct of criminal proceedings by public authorities, even with regard to their personal freedom against the defendant, and I therefore see no reason for amending the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-81	Thank you very much for the answer from the Deputy Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How do the Ministry's road development plans serve the economic development of Szolnok city, its region and the county? It's an address. Congresswoman Maria Kállai has the floor.
u2018-11-19-82	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County has been one of the few counties for a long time as we know that no highway has reached. In this area, we must say that the Orbán government has made a very joyful change: as one of the main elements of the programme of the modern cities, it has marked the connection of all county seats to the expressway. We do, but in particular the geographical location of the city of Szolnok, the creation of the necessary infrastructure can put the region's development and economy on a new footing, as, of course, this is where the interest of investors is expected to recover significantly. Of course, this could value our county. The construction of the M44 and M4 motorways, the bypass of the M4es in Szolnok, the Jászberény bypass road, the renovation of the section of Highway 4 between Abony and Törökszentmiklós, and the construction of the downtown Tisza bridge, which fundamentally affects the transport of Szolnok city, are the major investments that have already begun in part. It is important to know that in the life of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, these developments are of paramount importance, it is not exaggeration to say that they are decisive, the faith in the future, the development of the economy, the depositories of the increase in conservation power. However, we are pleased to see that our proposals on these improvements have been welcomed in the Ministry, and we thank you very much for that. I think I can also say on behalf of all the representatives of Parliament in the county that we look forward to road construction, and we are very confident that we will soon be able to feel the further strengthening of the location of the people living here, the development of the settlements and their impact on everyday life. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I respectfully ask: how can the Ministry's road development plans serve the economic development of Szolnok city, its region and the whole county? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-83	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the government's priority objective and its continuous programme since 2010 is to put the countryside in position and to develop it in a targeted way, to create a network of successful cities with strong county rights and living communities. Many of our measures have helped agriculture, rural industry or rural higher education institutions, thus raising the standard of living for people living here. At the same time, the government considers the expansion and modernisation of rural transport infrastructure one of its fundamental tasks. Our aim is to catch up in the density of the fast-track network, for example, to neighbouring Austria and Slovenia, and to reach a four-track road section within 30 minutes of any point in the country by 2030. In line with this aim, I can confirm to the Member that the scheduled development of motorway M4 and motorway M44 is indeed ongoing. Construction works have started in several stages, while preparations are in progress for other stages. The fast-tracking of cities with county rights still available on main roads is a priority transport and strategic goal. The Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county can connect more easily and intensively not only to Hungary's economic circulation, but also to the European scale by becoming part of the international transport corridor from East-West Transylvania to Western Europe. The government's measures to support other economic development, or the programme of modern cities, and the programme of modern villages, will help the inhabitants of the county to make effective use of the opportunities to open up. The new roads will improve the quality of life in all parts of the country, including Szolnok and Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok counties, by boosting local economy and tourism, attracting job-creating investments. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-85	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. Strategic Partnership Agreement, or outside the glorious past, will the Government allow the Iron Works to have a hopeful future? It's an address. Mr Tamás Pintér has the floor.
u2018-11-19-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Vasmű plant in Dunaújváros is not only one of the most important heavy industrial installations of the city, but also of Hungary as a whole. In addition to providing work for thousands of people in the region, its economic potential is also marked by its international high volume of orders, increasing the reputation of industrial and industrial workers in Hungary. Unfortunately, due to the size of Dunaferr, we are subject to market and economic changes. Privatization, economic crisis, leadership exchanges, early retirement, emigration, and other problems that have arisen in recent years. These make life more difficult for more and more ironsmiths, making their own and their families' futures more uncertain. [[13.20]] These are tough strategic issues that are of paramount importance to us in the district. Since 20 July 2012, the government has concluded a strategic partnership agreement with 79 companies, but unfortunately, this has not happened with Dunaferr to this day. I would like to make it clear that none of the 79 large companies have such long-standing and strong ties to Hungary as the ironworks. The Strategic Partnership Agreement has many advantages for large companies. Their questions will be heard by the government sooner, they may be consulted before tax is introduced, or even discussed with the Cabinet about the special taxes that apply to them. It is clear, therefore, that such an agreement could help the economic development of our region and would increase the safety of thousands of two-handed workers working in ironworks by abandoning errors. Ironworks not only have a glorious past, but must also have a successful future, which we are obliged to provide by all means. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether you wish to conclude a strategic partnership agreement with the heavy industry company Dunaferr, or, if so, when, and if not, why not. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-87	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-88	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The aim of the Government's strategic partnership programme is to develop long-term and balanced cooperation with the key, stable players of the Hungarian economy in order to improve and enhance the country's competitiveness. These strategic agreements should be voluntary on both sides, and declarations of intent based on the emphasis on long-term cooperation. The Government will examine several circumstances prior to the conclusion of strategic agreements and all companies must comply with these conditions and conditions. In line with this, the government only enters into a strategic partnership agreement with companies whose financial situation is well-organised, free from public debt and are not in a lawsuit with the Hungarian State. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that, after the conclusion of strategic agreements, the strategic partners have so far increased the number of jobs in the order of tens of thousands and increased the share of Hungarian suppliers, so that the system of strategic agreements is effective. With regard to Dunaferr, I would like to inform the honourable Member that the ownership of Dunaferr is currently not transparent and that the ownership structure, in its present form, excludes the conclusion of a strategic partnership with the government. In addition to the system of the strategic cooperation agreement, however, the government has continued to engage with Dunaferr. Thanks to the failed privatisation contract and the missed developments, after the 2008 crisis, Dunaferr struggled to survive, the existence of thousands of families was at risk. In 2013, the company planned a lay-off of 1500 people, and after several consultations, the plans for the reduction of the number of employees were completely withdrawn. So government intervention was successful, without it there would be fewer jobs in Dunaújváros now. I would also ask the honourable Member that you also consult with the company's managers on the issues that residents also discuss and raise these modernisation and environmental issues. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-19-89	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, With the separation of private and public health, do we also lose doctors? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-90	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, My answer to the title of my question is, in effect, that I hope that we will not lose doctors by separating public health and private health, which I can only welcome. Although you said in one of your interviews that there wouldn't be a simple round, and I think you might have hinted that this is a very conflicted area. It is now three quarters of a year in the budget year that hospitals are struggling with a deficit of some HUF 50 billion, and it is likely to go up to HUF 60-65 billion by the end of the year. As a result, I would like to bring some problems here to this House. One of these problems is that it seems that hospitals are underfunded. At the same time, we also know that about 10% of their income is acquired by institutions from rentals from private practices which are currently carried out with instruments owned by the State within the framework of the institution by those who carry out private orders; it is true that hospitals receive around 10% of their revenue. At the same time, it is also apparent that this is about the provision of an additional service and this is about capacity utilisation, which would otherwise be welcome. That is why I am asking Mr State Secretary whether measures have already been taken to separate the public sector from the private sector in relation to health. My other question is how they can compensate for the extra 10 percent loss of income that is likely to be borne by hospitals after separation, depending on the fact that the debt of hospitals is already over 50 billion. How can they prevent the public sector from pumping good professionals into private health? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For public health, it was a huge blow when the Socialist Government dismissed 6,000 medical workers with one pen stroke, including many doctors, and the rest were nurses and workers. Yeah, it's a sore wound. At the same time, in recent years, we have tried to increase health pay to such an extent that it is more and more worthwhile for everyone to work in public health. I can give you a few hospital examples now, please listen carefully: he who was still relatively early in 2010 as a nurse and earned HUF 159 thousand, now earns over HUF 300,000. At that time, he had a higher routine as a nurse and earned HUF 222 thousand, and now he earns HUF 398 thousand. The doctor who worked at the beginning of his career for half a decade made 280,000 forints, now earning 760 thousand forints, not 280. And who made 364 thousand forints in 2010, he now earns 849 thousand forints in health care. These are tangible wage surpluses, precisely because in recent years we have increased the total amount of HUF 647 billion that we can devote to health care. Most of this was paid by doctors and nurses, half of which was HUF 647 billion. If you look at the amount of the extra wage per year, you will see that between 16-18 and 128 billion forints in three years is only the surplus that we paid for wages. From this you can see the number of out-of-country doctors, because while it was 845 in 2010, it has now decreased to 334, so it has decreased by more than 60 percent, and besides it more than 1500 doctors who have asked for permission to work abroad are still active in Hungary; so either they have not gone abroad, or they are working abroad and in Hungary as well, or they have given up foreign medicine and are active here in Hungary. I'm asking you not to privatise [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and don't support paid health care, as they did before 2010, but the separation of public and private health, so that everyone who goes to the public hospital will go to the public hospital (the president, by jogging the bell, marks the end of time. ), be aware that there you will receive state-funded free medical treatment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-19-93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "How did the illegal immigrant cross the border? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-94	Mr President, The sky is the limit, as they say. That's pretty much how much you spent on border fences. They spent ten billion dollars on border protection, they talk about it all the time, they declare the crisis caused by immigration, they keep telling the public about their great exploits of border protection. Well, there's a real criminal coming in, and he's easily crossed the border. He was convicted for two years in his country, but he didn't go to prison, he walked into Hungary. The border fence, the border hunters, your border protection system, did not reverse the immigration crisis, but did not see the transit zone where you lock up children fleeing the war, but is waiting in a luxury hotel in Budapest for your request to be evaluated. There is no other European country that would give refuge to a convicted former prime minister who stole his own country. Secretary of State, the European government does not hide criminals, especially if it does not allow them to enter the border illegally. This is only done by eastern dictatorships, Russian puppet states and banana corporations, not Europe. [[13.30]] We Hungarians in Europe are increasingly impatient about the answers, the responsible ones and the consequences. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State, how did the illegal immigrant cross the border? Where did he cross the border and how? Did you come in on a border crossing? How? Were the border guards wrong or were they instructed by the smuggling government? Or did you come in on the green line? How? Why do you have a miracle fence if you can't stop a single person? Why didn't the convicted felon end up in the transit zone? Do they only starve innocent people there? Anyone who can prove he's a convicted felon can come in easy? What is this passageway at the border, Mr. Secretary? Enlighten us.
u2018-11-19-95	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-19-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would be happy to enlighten you, but first of all allow me to reject the unfounded statements of Hungary, of our country, honourable Member. [[Gergely Arató: I said bad things about the government, not about Hungary! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2018-11-19-97	There's a response, Congressman. [[Gergely Arató: I said about the government, not Hungary!]] Congressman, there's an answer, not a private debate in Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. I ask you to be kind...
u2018-11-19-98	Thank you for the floor. The Hungarian Government considers all applicants' asylum applications to be a legal issue. The police, the Immigration and Asylum Office, act in accordance with the law. When assessing asylum applications, the legislation sets out the guarantee framework under which the authority will take its decisions in the future. The Hungarian authority entitled to examine the application shall act in full respect of the relevant international legislation. The 2007 LXXX on asylum. Chapter X of the Act contains the guarantee provisions which specify precisely which bodies or persons are to be informed by the asylum authority for the purpose of carrying out their statutory duties. Due to compliance with the provisions of the asylum law, the Hungarian authorities cannot provide information on the data of asylum seekers or on the procedure. Honourable Congressman, If you are a law-abiding citizen, if you are a Member of Parliament who obeys the laws, I ask you not to put pressure on the Hungarian authorities who act, but to let the decisions, as the law requires, be taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-99	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. What can we expect from the government if he has consistently reduced and destroyed the green surfaces of Budapest? It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2018-11-19-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Fidesz has made and started investments in Budapest over the past nine years, mostly in the course of investments that are of national importance, which have not yet met the needs and interests of the people here. I can give you examples of that. It is enough to say the museum grove, the museum program in the Liget, which has resulted in a crowd of trees being cut, but I can also say the structure of the Ludovika Campus, where the Orczy garden has been virtually cut off, but this includes the stoning of Kossuth tér, the construction of the Dagály Swimming Pool, and it is likely that the tennis centre designed for Margaret Island will be completed with such results. A common indication of these investments has always been the reduction of green areas for whatever purpose it was initiated. Unfortunately, we see that you don't see what a modern city should look like, even though it doesn't have to go far. I think that if someone travels to Vienna or Paris, they can see exactly why the green area that makes the city livable and makes the price of property near the parks more valuable. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, this process continues, and this is what the Orbán-Tarlós pact is all about, which will lead to decision-making being transferred to the development council in the Metropolitan Assembly. In light of this, I would like to ask whether you intend to consider, professionally and socially agree on investments, so that, instead of removing green areas, the rational and necessary rehabilitation of brownfield areas is carried out, and that our nation's capital can undergo significant greening, or whether the government remains an enemy of trees. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and subjugates the interests of investors close to Fidesz. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-101	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-19-102	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Dear Parliament, The last sentence on your written question was that I ask you to spare me communication and that you would like a professional response. You've spared us the professional question, and you've asked only and only a question of a communication nature, but let me continue in this tone. You don't have to go to Vienna, you have to go to the Orczy Garden and Margaret Island. As one of the state leaders of the National University of Public Service, I go to the Orczy Garden every day, and what you're talking about doesn't exist. The Orczy garden has been renovated and we have created the largest green area in Inner Budapest. We increased the area by tens of hectares, on tens of thousands of square meters we replaced the ruined solid asphalt surface with green surface, planted hundreds of trees; and the same is the case with Margaret Island. I also have a theoretical answer that goes beyond specific cases. The theoretical answer would be that there is also a veterinary horse in relation to the Liget project in relation to your Green Policy Communication campaign that at the moment Liget has 60 per cent green surface, 5.7 per cent built-in, 65 per cent solid casing. What we're doing is raising the green surface to 65 percent and raising the installation to a minimum. Those solid enveloped surfaces will be reduced, which you seem to object to all the time. So this is a fake news you're saying. In every case, with all these investments, Kossuth Square, Liget Project, Margaret Island, Orczy Garden, the number of green surfaces has always increased, they become orderly green surfaces, and these are the areas left of socialism that are decreasing. So all I have to say is, I'm asking you to support this type of work, if you're a representative of a green party. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-103	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. This year, the wood heater is in even greater trouble? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Even though winter has arrived in our country today, and so far we have had a relatively mild autumn, but these are the days when it becomes clear to everyone that the existence or absence of a winter burner can cause very serious problems, especially in a year that threatens to cause even more serious firewood shortages than last year. This is a national shortage of firewood, and the price increase of this fuel comes directly, and this problem is compounded by the government's very different way of supporting the various heating devices, and indeed, those who heat with wood, and often the rural families or even more often the poorer families, do not support their heating possibilities at all, so this is a very topical issue. I am talking about KSH data, when I say that there has been a 13.5 percent increase in firewood already in August, and this is compared to last year, where there has already been a brutal increase compared to the previous year. This means 3660 forints on the national average. The lack of wood is due to several reasons, by the way. There is also a shortage of labour in other sectors, and the market has also been overrun by black people. Unfortunately, in this regard, the EUTR firewood has also been published by fraudsters on the news, and fortunately, here the Nebih has fought against these, but there is also information, for example, that the forest is deliberately withholding firewood; I think this is because of the social firewood. In any case, the system is full of anomalies, and it has been a recurring problem for many years now that those who wish to use firewood or can only solve their entire winter fuel will suffer a disadvantage, and none of our proposals on this have been adopted so far. I hope that the situation will be different now and I look forward to a meaningful response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.40]]
u2018-11-19-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-106	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to improving the living conditions of the disadvantaged population, as confirmed by the social fuel programme. The purpose of the tender is to provide additional support to families in need, thereby reducing household fuel costs. The municipalities voluntarily submit their claims year after year, the applications are judged by the Ministry of the Interior, the decision can be communicated electronically to the municipalities. I would like to inform you that according to the invitation to tender, municipalities may obtain social firewood from all forest farmers registered by the forestry authority, whether public or private forest farmers. Public forestry favours meeting the needs of those in need, and the priority of the social firewood programme at the time of fuel supply. This is also confirmed by the fact that state forest farms are selling firewood for social purposes to eligible municipalities at the same price this year. Public forestry companies are using the maximum use of timber under the legislation to meet their needs by installing modern logging machines, thereby reducing the potential shortage of labour that you referred to in your question. We regret, however, that most of the population are planning to obtain the necessary firewood immediately before or during the heating season, which can cause temporary and local shortage of firewood. We would also like to change this approach with the. Heating Smartly! , through campaigns. We've had this conversation in the last week's hour of immediate questioning. The domestic firewood market is multi-player, besides the public and private forest farmers, timber traders are also involved in the supply side. The price of residential firewood is determined by the free market, which is currently also determined from the demand side. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-107	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question: why the hospital on the outskirts of the city? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Minister of State, Head of the Prime Minister's Office of Gergely Gulyás, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The election campaign has taken another step in the last few days. We know that in six months' time there will be a parliamentary election in Europe, and in a year's time there will be municipal elections, and obviously, in the various rocky regions, the pool of promises will change and grow significantly. I would like to say to you, Mr Secretary of State, and to the Minister, Prime Minister, that in the next year I would like to deal systematically with the case of superhospitals, especially the South Buda Super Hospital as an important area of my constituency. Now this series of questions is just about laying the groundwork in this situation, where we are now, what you think has happened and what is expected, and then it will be a nice process, just like in the case of the European Swimming Championship, to see how the numbers and intentions have evolved later. So my questions are very clear, simple, non-communicative, non-communicative. There will be a super hospital in South Buda: yes or no? Is the decision to make this in the otherwise rather surprising area still being maintained, or rather the profession's proposal that it would be more appropriate to develop an existing hospital, perhaps to reconsider it? What do you expect to find out who's gonna be working in this hospital? About what staff are you expecting for the 1,400 beds and from where? What happens to the other hospitals around here? How much is the transport investment part? We know that today there is virtually no public transport in this area where the investment is planned. Today, in mid-November 2018, what do you think of the total investment cost? Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-19-110	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In connection with your question, I can inform you that yes, there will be a super hospital in South Buda, as has been said several times in public. This is done in the context of the activities of the. Healthy Budapest. This follows the Semmelweis plan and the sectoral strategies that have been developed in this case. According to this plan, the most important part of this development programme, which is called "Efficient Budapest" is the improvement of the quality of active emergency care, the development of infrastructure and instrumentalisation, and the development of IT tools and networks, which are essential for more modern patient care. We believe that Szent Imre University Education Hospital is a well-established hospital, which currently provides nearly 300 thousand people, but according to demographic forecasts it should provide an area with an ever-increasing population, and that this supply obligation can not be made suitable even with extended infrastructure and other developments at this site; it simply cannot be realised what can be achieved with a greenfield investment. This is gonna be a super-hospital for 1.2 million people. Until then, the Szent Imre Hospital must continue to provide high-quality care, so there will be significant improvements until then, and the St. Imre University Training Hospital will not close, but one of the subunit places will be the South Buda Super Hospital, where the preparation of patients for musculoskeletal surgery and other projects will take place. In the meantime, developments have been made from HUF 3.7 billion plus HUF 5 billion, and I believe that in relation to the future of Szent Imre Hospital, it is a guarantee that the person of the Prime Minister's office responsible for the whole area is the Director General of Szent Imre Hospital. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-111	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition, would like to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-112	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Examples of what happens when forced and false democrats lose their power and return to independent justice; then comes the screaming, the terror and the people, and these people flee from the law and the consequences. That is why the Macedonian Prime Minister, sentenced to two years in prison for misappropriation, has fled to you. When the Macedonian people asked where our money was, they fled without a passport, some say crossing the border in women's clothing, just to be sure. What a patriot, what a statesman! That's a real anti-immigration national hero. That's how you see it. When responsible for the crimes committed, they flee as illegal migrants to a foreign country in order not to find themselves at home in a cold prison cell after the luxurious years stolen. There is no other European country that would give refuge to a convicted former prime minister who stole from his own people. It's just the Fidesz government doing it, it has nothing to do with our country. A European government does not hide criminals; this is only done by disguised or actual Eastern dictatorships, Russian puppet states, banana companies, non-European Member States. Which one of these are you guys gonna take on? We European Hungarians protest to make Hungary a gathering place for corrupt politicians and criminals fleeing from their people. There's no doubt that the mafia center you've built is very suitable for this, but we don't want any of this. DK wants to see those responsible and the consequences. Until they do that, no one can think of you but to build it with premeditated gestures, so that the criminal leaders here can escape our country wearing women's clothes when the moment of truth comes. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-113	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.50]]
u2018-11-19-114	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You gave me the address of your question, which, if I understand it correctly, is more or less what you're going to want to run away with? That's the question. Honourable Congressman, I have to inform you that I'm sorry to be the one to tell you this, but you're on the opposite horse, given that Fidesz, KDNP and the government have been elected. The government doesn't run, the government is elected. Sorry for the non-Hungarian wording, but it is perhaps more understandable; thirdly, two thirds in a row. Those who were driven away by the Hungarians, because this is also important, are you. [[Gergely Arató: Here we are, Secretary of State!]] Moreover, the third time in a row, the Hungarian people have expressed quite clearly what they think of your political performance. You have neither political, moral, moral, nor any basis, nor authority to take any action. With regard to the corruption you have always mentioned, I would like to mention only one piece of information in case you have not been aware of it recently. The latest economic growth was 5 percent. I understand that this is unpleasant for you, because you can't even remember such positive economic growth from your era, there are 6-7-8-9 percent declines reported in the data... [[László Varju: In particular, it is not true that there was such a thing.]]
u2018-11-19-115	Congressman, the response is taking place, not dialogue. I ask for your understanding, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-19-116	Thank you, Mr. President, for your good intentions, so I feel better. So I would also like to note that more than 700,000 new jobs have been created, and I understand that this is unpleasant for you, but the truth is that in your time the economy is ruined, the country is bankrupt, and now every Hungarian can take one step forward from time to time, and the government will work to ensure that this is the case in the future. Thank you for your constructive contributions and attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It's 13:52. We've reached the end of the discussion of the questions. We're going to talk about immediate questions. [[Rumors from Jobbik and DK.]] Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, Márton Gyöngyösi and Tibor Bana, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. [[Gergely Harvestó: Where is the Prime Minister? You don't want to protect yourself?]] Congressmen, do you mind that the president of the session is presenting the following speakers? [[Péter Ungár: Excuse us!]] Thank you for your understanding, thank you. How credible is the government's policy? With the title of Gyöngyösi Márton, I believe he wishes...
u2018-11-19-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We will wait with this question, Prime Minister.
u2018-11-19-119	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Peter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power take advantage of all our patience? Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. [[Gergely Harvesto: Where is he? He's here!]] I beg your patience, Minister, you will arrive in time. Dear Parliament, I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2018-11-19-120	Thank you very much, but I'll wait for His Majesty.
u2018-11-19-121	Thank you. I would like to inform you that you will have to answer the Prime Minister at the next hour of the third immediate question. I hope, Mr President, that you will be given a meaningful answer to your response to me, when you answer, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi and Andrea Varga-Damm, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does power abuse all our patience? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the congresswoman, Mr President, if she will accept the person of the response. Do you accept? [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman. It's just that they put her up with Congresswoman, and I thought she'd be polite. There you go. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The last few days have been loud from the Gruevski scandal. This is, isn't it, the ex-Prime Minister in Macedonia, with whom Viktor Orbán, Zsolt Németh and you, Minister, met in person, and at whose event, one of the campaign events of the VMRO, Péter Szijjártó himself raised his voice to campaign, and also Minister, I am very pleased to add this to my speech. This is the former Prime Minister of Gruevsk, who has a number of economic ties to your government, because he bought shares in the media of Péter Schatz and Ágnes Gruevski from the circles of Árpád Habony, and this spring Mr Schatz was seen turning 12 times in the office of VMRO in 20 days. During the three years of the migration campaign, you have made sure that both Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania and Serbia are classified as safe countries. These are the countries in which your diplomats helped this fallen Prime Minister, who failed not only on the will of the electorate, but also because of the targeted public procurement of a luxury Mercedes, which he used for private purposes, failed to do so, and was sentenced to two years in prison on charges of corruption. This man was smuggled into this country through these countries, through countries that you classified as a safe country a few years ago. This has never been the case since the change of regime. I ask Minister: what was the role of diplomats in this, that people were smuggled here to Hungary, not just any of them, and what is their view of refugee rights against such a person who came to Hungary through four countries, all of which Hungary has declared safe? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-123	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. You have the floor, Minister.
u2018-11-19-124	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The government's views on refugee rights and refugee status are well known, and the government's views on safe countries are also known. It is necessary to examine this in the asylum procedure with the determining authority. The case of the former Prime Minister of Macedonia, who, according to you, failed at the will of the electorate a few years ago, Jobbik would have had a fundamentally different opinion on this, but let's put it in parentheses, which is why it should be treated as a legal issue. The competent authority will decide whether or not to qualify for refugee status. With regard to the situation of justice in Macedonia, and the prison conditions, I would not have recommended them to Jobbik a few years ago, but now that these sources of law are almost biblical, I suggest reading the European Commission's country report, I recommend reading the Council of Europe report, but these should be assessed and decided by the authorities and the competent asylum authority during the asylum procedure. The principle of safe countries is an important principle, we were the ones who set it up in a constitution. It's a presumption, but it's a rebuttable presumption. The specific procedure is obviously about this presumption and its overthrow. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-125	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, within a one-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-126	Dear Minister, If this question were a legal issue, then ex-Prime Minister Gruevski would have to wait in a transit zone for his asylum application to be assessed. If at all a person who comes from a safe country can apply for asylum in Hungary, let us put that question aside now. As it stands, he should be waiting somewhere along the border in a transit zone for his application to be evaluated in Hungary at all. And there is another problem, Minister, that there is an extradition agreement with Macedonia, which means that Mr Gruevski should have been sent back to Skopje a long time ago, so that he should have been released to the Macedonian authorities. But I know what your answer is: Mr Gruevski is being persecuted because the Soros agents have launched an attack on him, and he must be protected from it. Let us also read the Origo, Minister, I hope that you [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They're gonna take this issue a little more seriously.
u2018-11-19-127	Congressman, thank you very much, but your time is up.
u2018-11-19-128	Mobutu of Zaire and Idi Amin of Uganda... I'm sorry, Congressman, I'm sorry that your time frame has expired, but you've just gone 20 seconds further, now ten. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2018-11-19-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, No extradition request has been sent to the Hungarian Government from Macedonia to this day, so I do not understand the suggestion. The procedure and the application for asylum have been lawfully lodged. This answers some of the previous questions. Some of the press have also found the right answer, but since no European Union country has, by the way, provided even as much information as we have provided during an ongoing asylum procedure, because we have already explained the details, everyone has been able to find out exactly what has happened. We have not violated the sovereignty of another state, we have not intervened in the internal affairs of any other country. An asylum application must be assessed in accordance with Hungarian legislation. If there is an extradition request, it will also have to be assessed in accordance with Hungarian law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-130	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On Dr. László Varga's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Air pollution poses a huge health risk in Hungary. There are extremely high cases of these diseases, especially the number of deaths that can be traced back to them. The European Commission has also launched infringement proceedings against Hungary and has long been expecting a plan of action in this regard from you, the government. Let me mention two outstanding points that have been most affected by air pollution in the country. Many times Budapest, the capital of the country, has a very low green surface, and the data is very bad many times. But let me tell you a little bit more about my Patria, the valley of Sajó, which may be an even more polluted area. This is Kazincbarcika, Sajószentpéter, Putnok and Miskolc with the largest population, with a total of about 400,000 people. I've made a lot of suggestions myself and our faction over the past few years about what should be done. You have shut down building energy developments practically after 2010, for example, in Miskolc about a third of the buildings built with panel technology have been renewed before 10. Since then, practically nothing. A lot of people use unconventional heating methods, a lot of people heat with unconventional boilers, but there are no substantial boiler exchange programmes. There is a very serious shortage of firewood, which has already been mentioned today. It is also a question of whether they are finally willing to reduce the VAT on firewood to 5%, because this would also significantly reduce air pollution and would mean a great deal to many socially. Motor vehicle traffic is also a major pollutant. In the BKV and the countryside, the vehicle stock of the Volan companies is very seriously polluting and the public exchange programme for passenger cars is mature. Romania has managed to implement such a programme. I hope it does for us too. I therefore look forward to your reply, Minister, on what measures are finally planned to address the problem of air pollution. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-19-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, air pollution figures are sometimes a source of concern in larger cities. I am only saying this because of what measures we can take, because of course Hungary has the opportunity to take important measures and make important decisions. Yet it is a significant circumstance that Hungary receives 30 percent more air pollutants from beyond the border than it does from the country. In recent years, there have been numerous government decisions aimed at reducing air pollution. For example, the cross-sectoral programme for small particle emissions, ordinary and normal emissions of particulate matter was launched in 2011, since then a HUF 160 billion investment has been made in transport, industry, agriculture, which has improved air pollution limits. In contrast to your claim, although I do not dispute the fact that energy modernisation programmes started before 2010, with the opening of EU funds, more than 412 thousand households have been able to invest in reducing emissions since 2010. In fact, the fact that the first few years of the period after 2010 were only significant or quantifiable in this respect is due to the relatively rapid exhaustion of this programme and its resources. I do not even dispute that the call for funds was relatively good in this respect before 2010, but it is a fact that 412 thousand households have been able to invest in reducing emissions since 2010. The new national air load reduction programme is currently being developed. The government is planning to accept this in April 19 and our aim is to reduce the environmental and health risks of the population by 50 percent as a result of the measures adopted in this regard. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-134	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is not a problem at times, but there is a persistent problem, and in some weather conditions there is a very big problem. We talked about this a few years ago. For example, when Miskolc was 700 percent, the health limit was so exceeded by PM10 contamination. The answer to this was, in effect, that the data is now more widely available. There are no more online portals or opportunities where the population can keep up to date to what extent the pollution is. That's one of the problems. Secondly, they also do not support innovative developments that would partially address this problem. I have repeatedly suggested the extension of the programme "Modern Cities" in connection with, for example, the development of the Smogkémény from the University of Miskolc, but they have not done anything in this case. It is also a question of how more effectively industrial pollutants, whose emissions have increased in recent years, are to be monitored in the next period. Furthermore, Minister, there is an infringement procedure going on against Hungary, and it is very clear that, in the interests of people's health, we need immediate steps from the government. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2018-11-19-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is natural that, in all infringement proceedings, the Government will endeavour to do everything in its power to ensure that the circumstances giving rise to this end cease as soon as possible. We note that there is a similar infringement procedure against the many countries of the European Union, the richest countries, including Germany. I agree that energy modernisation programmes should be supported more. It is therefore of particular importance that the resources required for this should be made available in the next seven-year budget of the European Union to a greater extent than they have been available for these seven years. I also hope that the government will support innovative initiatives and that it is especially right for a Member of Parliament to put plans on the government's table for large cities, especially for cities at risk, which may be inspired by the wallet. So I promise you that if the Member has such proposals in respect of Miskolc, the government will deal with it in substance. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-138	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ms Ágnes Vadai and Mr Gergely Arató, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you think that? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2018-11-19-139	Since reading minds is not yet within the minister's purview...
u2018-11-19-140	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2018-11-19-141	...so we'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-142	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Have you done it yet? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-143	Thank you very much. Dear House, Minister, the Ministry you represent acknowledged that you are granting special care and treatment to former Prime Minister Macedonian refugees to Hungary from prison. So far, we have not received any meaningful answers to this situation, even though we know that this has become a global scandal. I'll tell you what this special treatment has been for you so far. Since the former Macedonian Prime Minister started from a safe country of origin and reached Hungary through a secure third country, he could not have crossed the transit zone without conducting an asylum procedure. [[14.10]] Yet, the former Prime Minister of Macedonia failed corruption in a hotel in Budapest, and then, according to the news, he was hiding in Viktor Orbán's house. Minister, a man who was stealing from prison with your diplomatic help came to Budapest without a passport as an illegal migrant. That's the thing. This is what you call special treatment. So you smuggled an illegal immigrant into the country and took it, that's a fact. You should know that under your laws, an organisation that helps immigration must register itself and even pay the immigration tax. I ask, therefore, Minister, has the Prime Minister's Office and Fidesz been registered as a support organisation for immigration? Have they done it yet? If not, when will they do it? I also ask whether the Prime Minister's Office and Fidesz have already paid the immigration special tax. Have they done it yet? If not, when will they pay the special taxes? I guess that won't be a problem for you, obviously a well-paid illegal immigrant fleeing prison, especially a fallen prime minister fleeing his own people. The laws apply to you, even if you brought them. Please answer my questions. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-144	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-19-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to correct your mistake, the Prime Minister's Office has not provided the former Macedonian Prime Minister with any care. [[Noise, interruptions, including Márton Gyöngyösi: Eat only!]] I would also like to say, in part, to reassure you that parties are not obliged to pay an immigration special tax. I'm telling you this as a comfort, because if you did, you'd have to pay this special tax a long time ago. So I must reassure you that there is no obligation for DK to pay, so it is enough to know and read only the legislation. [[Intruders from the opposition benches: Márton Gyöngyösi: Only it's not embarrassing for them! A statement from the opposition benches: It's embarrassing for everyone!]] Furthermore, once again, during the immediate questions, I have the opportunity to say for the second time that there is an ongoing asylum procedure, the outcome of which will allow both the decision and the procedure itself to be classified. In this context, the necessary information goes far beyond what is otherwise used to provide information on an ongoing asylum procedure in Western Europe, we have provided it to the public and, inter alia, I can say that the Asylum Office should assess this request in accordance with the legislation. At every moment so far, the Hungarian authorities have acted legally. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-146	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-147	Thank you very much. Minister, do I now tell you that you, as head of a Soros organization, explain the unexplainable? [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] While they brought illegal, never-investors to Hungary with tens of thousands of their resettlement bonds! Should I say that if it were up to you, you would turn Hungary into an immigrant country? It is now a fact that in Hungary there is only one Hungarian organization supporting illegal immigration and smuggling, and this is the government provided by Fidesz and KDNP. There is no other European country that would give refuge to an ex-Prime Minister who was stealing from his own people and fleeing responsibility. No European government can hide criminals. This is only done by eastern dictatorships, Russian puppet states, banana corporations. Which one of these do you represent? We European Hungarians do not allow Hungary to become a den of corrupt politicians and criminals fleeing from their own people.
u2018-11-19-148	Dear Parliament, Mr. Minister has the right to a rejoinder. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2018-11-19-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I don't know if you know the statistics that say that today the capital has one more visited institution than Parliament, and accordingly the entire country, and this is the Budapest Zoo. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Now, during the speech, I understood more than just why this was so. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] but also that we can hope that we have a good chance of turning the order around. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-150	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. When will he create... [[Noise.]] Fellow Members! [[Antal Csárdi: I would like to wait for the Prime Minister.]] I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions, but I would like to inform the Member that I have been willing to tell you your opportunity, but I wanted to wait until his companions allow me to give you a meaningful answer. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What does the EMMI do to prevent a city of people dying prematurely every year in Hungary due to air pollution? It's an address. Minister asked Mr Rétvári Bene, Secretary of State, to reply in response to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Péter Ungár: I'm honored.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-151	Thank you for the floor. We all know that the Minister of Human Resources employs the Chief of Staff, and he answers to you. The Chief Officer, when he published the latest air pollution data, said that he recommended that the citizens of Budapest, who live in air pollution, spend as little time outdoors as possible, avoid active physical activity and work outside. When he said that, it was, like, 20 degrees. My first question to the Secretary of State would be what his position is about this statement by the Chief Officer and whether he also advises the people whose air pollution is causing problems to stay at home. I would like to go further, and what has already been said about this, I would not like to repeat it, but Budapest is in a particularly bad situation in the country in terms of air pollution. The fact is that more people die per capita in Budapest than in any other rural town due to air pollution. There are two ways to stop this basically. One is to reduce car traffic. Please respond to whether Fidesz supports the introduction of a congestion charge, which is supported by the LMP, which has previously been translated into several positions within a year. Is there anything planned to increase the proportion of green surfaces in Budapest? There is currently 0.3 square meters of green space for a resident in the city of Erzsébet. If you look at the green surface per capita, Budapest is one of the last in the European Union. Do you have any plans to reduce air pollution, other than keeping Budapesters at home all year round? Do you have any plans to spend on heating upgrades or housing insulation instead of cutting down every tree you see and doing a concrete Budapest where no one can survive air and causing serious public health risks? Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2018-11-19-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you walk around Budapest, you can see all the trees the capital has planted in the past few years, and there is an inscription out there, that is, 10,000 new trees for Budapest! Your party is opposed to one of the largest new planting programmes in the City Park, where the number of green areas is increasing from 60 to 65 percent. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So where the green surface grows, they oppose it, and at the same time they are asking the government and the capital why there is no more green surface in Hungary. We want to create as many demanding green surfaces as possible, as you can see, whether you go to Normafa or go to City Park. We are really trying to make them as modern and as green as possible. You also pointed out that the Chief Officer, now known as the head of the National Centre for Public Health, is the one who evaluates the air pollution data of not only Budapest, but also of 28 Hungarian settlements, and everyone can follow this precisely by day and by minute on the website of the ÁNTSZ. Here are the suggestions and advice that are primarily for people suffering from cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, elderly people, children, because they are the ones who are more exposed to air quality. Obviously, in addition to individual precautions, we are also trying to provide community assistance. You might as well know it smartly! A campaign, which aims to show precisely better examples of improper public firing or not to pollute air by incineration or other means. [[14.20]] It also has a Facebook page that can be followed by everyone, precisely so that we can protect the quality of life of as many people as possible. Since 2011, as has already been said today, a total of HUF 160 billion has been spent as transport investment, industrial investment, agricultural investment or various modernisations in the residential sector. There was also a bus exchange programme in Budapest for this purpose, the designation of areas protected from freight traffic, the new toll system or the green design of the vehicle tax system. This is why we have developed cycling, not only with new bicycle paths, but also with community bicycle rental. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-154	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-155	Thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, the town grove tree planting programme may have been your Orwell novelist's parody peak today. The decline in the green area and the woody area, but you're saying that more, it's really an absurd lie that's hard to answer. What I would like to say to you on a professional basis is that air pollution in Budapest is not primarily because of heating, but because of transport. That is why I have tried to ask you to describe the government's position in relation to the congestion charge, which would help to reassure the people of Budapest. It's not a Facebook page, because Facebook doesn't make the air feel any better. And it's not a campaign, because you can do a poster campaign, you just have to do things that would make the car transport in the city less expensive, and that would make it less car and exhaust in Budapest. I would ask you that for the congestion charge, including how the car traffic will be reduced in Budapest, if you could answer that, it would be a great honour. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The increase in the green surface in the City Park is not absurd, honourable Member, but absolute. It's growing by 5 percent, increasing from 60 to 65 percent. You object to this, although if you would support it, you could improve the quality of life of that neighborhood, on the one hand, by turning the ungroomed environment into a well-groomed environment and, on the other hand, by increasing the proportion of the green surface in Budapest. This is a mathematical question, honourable Member. You can take a look at it yourself, as the plans that show how the green surface grows in the City Park have been published a long time ago. Just because you are stuck in a political opinion that you are opposed to everything the capital develops from tens or hundreds of billions in Budapest, you are forced to define 60 as more than 65 in order to defend their political position. Honourable Congressman, A further 50 percent reduction in environmental and health risks is the government's plan, and therefore a new national air load reduction programme will be established. We plan to adopt this by April 2019. You'll get answers to every detail you've asked. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-158	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2018-11-19-159	I accept your response, thank you.
u2018-11-19-160	Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-161	Minister, you have already said in two of your replies that Nikola Gruevski is in a refugee procedure and that you cannot provide information on this. Thank you, therefore, for recognising that there is a refugee procedure in progress. That wasn't entirely clear to the public, I'm just saying. If, on the other hand, there is a refugee procedure going on, I would like to stress that your government is seriously violating not only EU legislation, but also the Hungarian legislation which has been tightened up by itself, in the case of the former Prime Minister of Macedonia. According to EU rules and the Hungarian asylum law, refugee status cannot be granted to a person who has been convicted of serious non-political crimes in his country. Gruevski was not persecuted in his country because of his political view, because of his religion, or because of his affiliation to any social group. He was sentenced to two years in prison solely for corruption. In the case of serious crimes, Article 83 of the Treaty of the Union is clarified. The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, may lay down regulatory minimums for determining the facts of crime and the penalties for particularly serious offences where it is particularly necessary for the fight against them to be based on common ground. These offences include terrorism, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation of women and children, illicit drug trafficking, arms trafficking, money laundering, corruption, counterfeiting of money and other means of payment, cybercrime and organised crime. It is therefore clear that corruption has been declared a particularly serious crime by European countries. I ask, then, Minister, if there is a procedure in progress and there is no automatic exclusion of Gruevski from this, then you believe that unscrupulous money-stealing, commonly known as corruption is a serious crime, or perhaps a political right of freedom that the Hungarian state must defend. If the former, why did the Hungarian government actively help the former Macedonian Prime Minister to enter the Hungarian border? Thank you.
u2018-11-19-162	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll inform you that the time frame is two minutes. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, thank you for your confidence in the, what do you think, Prime Minister? He addressed his question with a title to me. I would like to point out that I cannot answer the direct content of the question, but what you have just said here as a question, I will try to repeat what I have been able to say several times in the last few days before the biggest press release. Asylum procedures are under way and all the points and arguments you have raised can be interpreted and interpreted in the context of an asylum procedure. It is therefore worth waiting for the asylum authority to decide whether or not to grant the former Macedonian Prime Minister refugee status. Furthermore, corruption is a serious crime, and therefore the criminal code adopted during our legislative majority punishes it considerably more than previously. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-164	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-165	It is very funny, Minister, that you are constantly talking about the HAC as a body outside the state, and not of a public body conducting this asylum procedure. Like they had nothing to do with this. Let me just say this is terribly embarrassing for you. It is no coincidence that he gives more embarrassing answers to questions about this. There are two possible things here. Or it is that the Hungarian diplomats helped Gruevski into the country. If Sándor Pintér did not specifically grant permission to enter and the refugee procedure was not carried out with his permission, then smuggling was committed, the crime of smuggling was committed by Hungarian diplomats. It's the first possible thing, and it's embarrassing. The second possible thing is that at the special request of Sándor Pintér, which is permitted by the legislation, this thing happened. However, the refugee law states that a person requiring special treatment may be an unaccompanied minor, an elderly person with a disability, a pregnant woman or a parent raising a minor child alone, or a victim of sexual violence. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I ask you, Nikola Gruevski is a pregnant woman, an unaccompanied minor ..........................................................................................................................................
u2018-11-19-166	Congresswoman!
u2018-11-19-167	... or which category in which Sándor Pintér was allowed to enter the country. Thank you.
u2018-11-19-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2018-11-19-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, You started well in the interpretation of the legislation, but then you failed at a certain point. What is most important, however, is that the asylum and citizenship office must take decisions according to the law. Of course, part of the state, I would add, that the courts are part of the state, no doubt that they are the government's body, but they have been judging asylum applications for years, even decades. Finally, after the struggles of recent years, I was pleased to see how effectively you can fight the granting of refugee status. I'm very happy for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-170	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, F Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "How much longer can confused party funding continue? It's an address. Minister, you have to answer for an urgent public service mission... [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Fellow Members! My fellow Members, the meeting continues. Thank you for your understanding, even on the right. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.30]]
u2018-11-19-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The national legal order provides a clear framework for the organisation, management and administration of parties legally registered. I believe that all political parties registered and operating in Hungary must comply with these standards without exception. The Act on the Functioning and Management of Parties regulates operating frameworks in detail, including the rules on the management of parties. According to the law, in the case of acceptance of other contributions and donations, if the value of the donation exceeds HUF 500 thousand, the party is obliged to name the contribution received. We have recently witnessed the farming scandals of Jobbik. The State Audit Office ordered the party to pay more than HUF 600 million due to irregular management, then Jobbik started fundraising, which was likely to spend money against their promise to fund their campaign. Thanks to the wave of exits due to Jobbik's left shift, new dubious transactions have surfaced. According to Balázs Szabó, head of the disbanded Szekszárd core organization, former media contractor Lajos Simicska sent the fried meat to Jobbik in a plastic bag. [[Grumbles and constant interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I think it's clear to all of us what the ex-Berlin politician was thinking under the fried meat tag. According to him, the media tycoon sent the money to fund the SAO's punishment in such an illegal way. It is absolutely absurd that a party, due to irregular management, is once again illegally collecting funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time for Jobbik to come clean, because the circumstances need to be clarified. I ask the Secretary of State how much longer can the confusing financial...
u2018-11-19-172	Congressman, you have two minutes.
u2018-11-19-173	I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2018-11-19-174	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also clear from what the Member has said that Jobbik is now a shadow of the team that marched in Dalias in 2010 talking about cleaning up all kinds of public life. They are suffering from severe crises. Today, a hopeless couple with desperate attempts to prove this from time to time with questionable cases. Their decline in membership continues to rally in the midst of their internal problems with illegal party financing scandals. The law on the operation and management of parties contains clear provisions for the management of parties. For example, it states that parties may not accept financial contributions from other states, foreign organisations, natural persons who are not Hungarian citizens, or anonymous donations or other contributions, and that donations must be named above HUF 500 000. Then there's an explanation for the $500,000 limit with the bag money. The interpretation of all these rules, as the practice proves, creates problems for Jobbik from time to time. Fortunately, the SAO and other authorities help them to do so, and hopefully sooner or later they will learn the essence of the regulation. First of all, Jobbik received posters well below market prices in 2017, which was recognised by Tamás Sneider, so the State Audit Office found in accordance with the relevant laws and established that Jobbik had accepted an illicit financial contribution in the first half of 2017. The State Audit Office stated in its report on the control of Jobbik that the party did not justify the transparent and eligible management of public funds in the years 15-16 and accepted a financial contribution of HUF 331 million of HUF 600 thousand prohibited in breach of legislation. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-19-176	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, So we can say that feeding and fattening with fried meat is not a feeding category [[Defiance.]] but prohibited party financing, which must have consequences. Some of the consequences the Jobbik suffered or could meet in the election. I ask Mr Secretary of State that it is in all our interests to investigate this matter so that we know, from the point of view of democracy, that they cannot feed us or fund parties in secret and illegal ways. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-19-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fact that Jobbik deserves some investigation also proves that Tamás Sneider, party president, explained in an interview that they had not received credit from anyone since mid-2017, but he wrote in Jobbik's campaign report that they had taken 80 million HUF credit for the election. A certain HUF 100 million, which was mentioned by the Member, was also not included as campaign costs, which were originally collected by the SAO to pay the penalty imposed by the SAO for the illicit party financing. Milkback was also deceived by their constituents because they did not use the money for that purpose, and then it was not properly booked. So they either lied when they talked about campaign funding or when the report was filed where it wasn't listed. I would like to reassure Mr President that the SAO, as well as the other public bodies that are entitled to do so, will act in a proper manner in this case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2018-11-19-180	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: å How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Mr Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The case of Slovak citizenship law is known to all of us. After Hungary fulfilled its historic duty in 2010, a few days later, Slovakia passed a counter-law, according to which the person who took up the Hungarian or something lost his Slovak citizenship, and who, under the law, had to declare the existence of another nationality, had to declare himself. Slovakia has now come to the point where it does not comply with its own unsuitable and unacceptable law, even at European standards. At the local elections held on 11 November 2018, Pállér Péter, a Hungarian high school teacher from the Highlands, was informed to Jobbik that he could not take part in the vote, as he was not included in the electoral register, nor in the address register. After a long phone call, it turned out that this was because the Slovak citizenship was withdrawn from Péter on 8 April 2018 and he was deleted from the address register; otherwise, he also owns his own apartment in Révkomárom. April 8 was the day of the parliamentary elections in Hungary, which Péter Pallér supervised at the Embassy in Bratislava as an observer of Jobbik. And after seven months, he didn't get any notice. In the absence of this, you need to investigate who, and on what grounds, has actually decided to remove your citizenship and what you can do about this decision at all. Thus, the Slovak power in lawlessness and anti-Hungarianism has reached another level, and has crossed another border. They did this, and I stress it once again, on the day of the Hungarian elections, and they did this to the Highland organizer of Jobbik. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how they intend to react to this new red line crossing. Can we expect a more definite answer than usual that the Slovak state now does not comply with its own laws, violates and makes innocent citizens homeless in their own country? What kind of assistance do you intend to provide to the disenfranchised young man in the highlands? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, answers the question. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It raises an important question, even because all the questions related to foreign Hungarians are important. You weren't an attacker in your speech, and I don't want to argue with you in particular. On the one hand, it is because after three and a half hours, man's remaining desire for life has also left behind these debates that he has heard here, and on the other hand, because DK has already played the role of boxing bag today. You raise an important question. I would like to inform you once again that this is not a party policy issue. A Hungarian living in a foreign country loses his Hungarian citizenship, regardless of any other factors. [[14.40]] What is true is that Péter Pallér was one of the founders of Jobbik's high-rural division, and in 14 he was on the party list at the Hungarian parliamentary elections in 49th place, or, as you pointed out, that he was the party delegate of Jobbik at the Bratislava embassy in the 18th election. Now, it is true for both of these claims that these positions can only be filled by people with Hungarian citizenship, and it is also true that Mr Pallér reported this position of 18 on his community side, so both information was available in public forums. At the same time, of course, we are looking at the extent to which what has happened is in line with the legislation there and what can be done about it. I would also like to say to the Member that I do not want to say that we are okay with the settlement of dual citizenship in Slovakia, you are right to say that we are not okay. Here we had two roads ahead of us, Minister Szijjártó repeatedly said that we are trying to build trust with various economic, diplomatic successes; I know that you are typically dissatisfied with them. This will take time, and if we have results in this, then perhaps we will also achieve results in relation to the more difficult issues. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-184	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2018-11-19-185	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. We are typically dissatisfied with the fact that we have been listening to this for eight years, that we need to build on success, cooperation, Danube strategy, never built Ipoly bridges, Slovak-Hungarian friendship, and others are also largely serving Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's European and Central European ambitions, and in the meantime, the government has not been able to solve virtually anything over the last few years on the issues of harm to Hungarians in the Highlands; see Malina Hedvig's case, language law, flag law, beating DAC fans. However, this is a question in which I am pleased that you do not treat me as a party political matter, and that is commendable in itself, so to say. However, this is a situation in which, I think, we really need a stronger stand, Slovakia does not comply with its own law. You are right, Mr State Secretary, that Péter Pallér has made this clear, but at the same time the law and the anti-law are also clear, and that the person who took up other citizenship must declare and confess himself. According to the law, you can't do this, because based on the photos and information collected online, Slovakia starts to withdraw citizenship from whom it would like. That's actually what happened here. We call on the government to take very clear and firm action on this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-187	Congressman, I can confirm to you once again that we are looking at this matter, as we are looking at every matter that is important to Hungarians abroad, of course we are focusing on it. I do not agree with the fact that the kind of foreign policy strategy which builds on trust building and, from this point of view, seeks to achieve results in relation to minorities and national communities would be without result or appearance, there are a number of relations between diplomatic and economic policy results that improve the lives of the local community. So I disagree with that statement. Péter Pallér, like all other foreign citizens, can count on the support of the motherland and the government. By the way, I would like to point out that in our consular service, or in the embassy, you have not made any kind of announcement regarding your case. He's still as important as any other foreign citizen. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-188	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, representative of the KDNP, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:, How does the CSOK system change, how does family support increase? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2018-11-19-189	Yes, I accept, Mr. President.
u2018-11-19-190	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-191	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The Fidesz-KDNP government launched the family home-building discount scheme so that those raising children or having children can live in the best possible conditions in Hungary. Since then, the popularity of the CSOK has remained unbroken, and so far there have been tens of thousands of families living with the discount, which means that we have been able to help hundreds of thousands of people build homes in the past. CSOK is also trying not only to help children, but also to contribute to the recovery of the domestic construction industry in addition to other benefits, which is an immediate national economic positive for all of us. In the first half of 2018, 30 percent more apartments were built than a year ago, and the number of building permits issued increased by 30-40 percent per year. Dear Secretary of State, As a Christian Democratic Member, let me say that family support and continuous improvement of family life are a key part of our policy. It is no exaggeration to assume that the population indicators have improved among family policy measures, notably thanks to the CSOK. Of course, let us honestly add that there is still work to be done in this area. The CSOK can also be requested after an existing and unborn child, while it also serves as a home for single-parent and two-parent families. Based on the data, it can be said that most people use support between the ages of 30 and 40, 11 percent of them pre-employ children, 30 percent have one child, 34 percent have two children, and 25 percent live in families with three or more children. It is important to see that the CSOK also contributes to the preservation of the countryside. At the same time, there is still a great need to help young people get their first home, and if the family grows, help them to move on as much as possible. This can also be helped by extending the family home-building discount. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State how he appreciates the impact of the CSOK so far, how the CSOK system will change in the future. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2018-11-19-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Families from left-wing governments received that they had taken the interest rate subsidy on forint loans, that they basically abolished the Socpol and drove Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: And during the Napoleon Wars, tell me something.]] On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP... - no matter how much the better men are now defending the socialists [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Hell, I'm just so bored!]] It was a sin that made housing difficult for a generation. On the other hand, the introduction of the CSOK has already helped 90,000 families worth HUF 257 billion. This means that we have helped 380,000 people to live and have contributed to about 30 thousand new children in the future. With the possibility of refunding VAT, Hungarians lived for HUF 51 billion. That is why it is important that we also defend these results in the national consultation, as we have seen that after 2002, the socialists and Balliberians who were then going from opposition to government have already destroyed a similar system, and it is important that as many as possible support this to have two-thirds protection and not to devote these resources to immigration. This boosted not only the desire to have children, but also the construction sector. In the first three quarters of this year, 10 218 apartments were built, which was 2237 more than a year ago. This represents an increase of 28 percent. Half of the apartments are built by a natural person, half by a company. 54 percent of the property is a family house, and the rest is a multi-apartment building, a residential house. As of 15 March this year, we have eased, improved, made the terms of the CSOK more flexible for the first time. For those returning from abroad, we have eased the possibility of certifying the social security status with a foreign legal relationship, and only 180 days after moving in, residents have to establish a social security status. We've made the housing expansion regulations more flexible. It has been shortened to 30 days in case of purchase and 60 days in case of construction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-194	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Family is the key to the survival of all nations, we all know that, and even the only real meaning of our lives is the child, the children, our children. Dezső Legány, the candidate of music sciences, says that if you want to live, you can't neglect any of your resources. Yes, this is perhaps the most important mission of all Hungarian people, all Hungarian politicians, to build the future of Hungarian children and to help them to have children within Hungarian families. Even if we see the great problem of our time, the great problem of our time, even if we often say yes, we need to build a social market economy, as a Christian Democrat politician I continue to proclaim it, in this global world we do need to pay attention to the fallen, to the children, to the families, and to give them all the support. Obviously, the future of the Hungarian nation depends on it. I trust that the government will continue to support childbearing, as it has done in recent years. And we hope that the family support system will continue to expand in the future. Thank you very much for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go. [[14.50]]
u2018-11-19-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Since the CSOK is a successful construction, and since the change of regime is the best way to help, we see the family's plans for home creation, so the government has decided to expand the possibilities further. On the one hand, we have seen that of the families with three children who used the CSOK, the non-refundable grant, almost all of them, at least four out of five families also took advantage of the preferential loan. For this reason, we have extended the possibility of borrowing, so that not only three children, but also two children, or two children can choose this for HUF 10 million, and the three children or the three children can choose it for HUF 15 million. It was also apparent that the construction sector was oversaturated, fortunately, there was a very large increase in orders, so it was an important step for the government to extend the 5% VAT discount until 31 December 2023 for construction projects where there had already been a final building permit on 1 November; we also tried to help families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2018-11-19-198	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is going on in the Ministry of the Interior? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response.
u2018-11-19-199	No.
u2018-11-19-200	He won't take it.
u2018-11-19-201	No.
u2018-11-19-202	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, It's 2:51 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We now have post-scheduled speeches. Serbian nationalist Alexov Lyubomir applied for a post-meeting speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2018-11-19-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, especially these days, on the 100th anniversary of November 11, 1918, we have witnessed many commemorations, all nations remembered the great war; of course, from their point of view, with their own truth, many times, the actual policy has pushed history into the background. This was the case on 28 July 1914 when European peace was replaced by a continent-wide state of war and then by a global war. The peace pigeon flew far away. Nations were tense to one another, while thousands and thousands of mothers fell on their knees, and with tears in their faces prayed that their loved ones should not fall victim to this worldburn. ANNEX II The German Emperor William was wrong when he said that by the time the leaves fell, the winning soldiers would be home. By the time the leaves really fell, you were bled out on the altar of war by both the winners and the losers, so we must bow down to the end of time for the fallen soldiers who did their job for their country and their ideals. In my speech, I raise my voice especially for those soldiers who were not or have not been spoken about enough, and perhaps for them I speak a little louder, whose hearts were divided into two parts from the moment they were born; for those whose hearts were stomped in the same way as those of Serbian, Croatian, Slovak or Ruthenian. Their roots fed on the bodies of two nations: they were the ones who died in Hungarian uniforms, but before the last beating of their hearts they prayed to God in their ethnic language. They were soldiers of ethnic origin in the Hungarian army. They didn't ask, they didn't rebel, they put on uniforms and protected their country. The emotions in their souls, what they've been through, how the traumas have been processed, we don't know. Their flag, nation, home was Hungarian. Let us remember those who have fought against their own roots, because the protection of the country has prevented them from doing anything. Let us raise our voice for those in whose souls the passions fluttered, their hearts filled with pain, and their identities shattered in two when they had to make a decision, but they made a decision, and marched under the Hungarian flag. Because of the bloody days of history, death now calls the mourners to their graves. Only the memory stored in our minds does not allow those who have confessed to themselves as sons of two nations to fade into obscurity and have sacrificed their lives for one of them. On the anniversary of the end of the war, let us bury the fathers, the sons, the brothers, the husbands in spirit, for they have taken their fate. May they rest in their glorious or unmarked graves, and let their vessel preserve their dual identity. Actions and decisions are human, social, thorough exploration and analysis are essential for understanding the substance. On this day, we form a spiritual communion with all those who, in historical times and in trials, have entered into fate for us, for offspring. A nation can have a realistic self-image if it knows the illustrious and less prominent characters of its past, as well as its historical figures. Some historical views deny that there are positive, exemplary historical figures and efforts, in which they seek to enlarge the negative features, and they loathe the recognition of sacrifice and heroism. On the other hand, building a national future based on the past can only be successful if the broad public has the opportunity to learn about the outstanding efforts of our history, and we can also stress our successes in addition to our past failures. There is a need to demonstrate heroic sacrifice in the past, to cherish the memory of heroes, and thus to provide examples for young generations. The sacrifice for our own community is a value that must not only be protected, but be accepted and even followed in the broadest possible segments of the public. Although the flame of the lives of fallen soldiers died early, they were not only vulnerable victims of history, but also combatants who, by their death, formed history. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] * Sursum corda! The old ones told me. Yes, let us raise our hearts and remember all the Hungarian and non-Hungarian soldiers who gave their lives together. Thank you for listening.
u2018-11-19-204	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor F Kovács, Fidesz Group, asked to speak after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Parliament to a landscape of unparalleled value which is our special national value. The area bounded by the four counties, the area of 127 square kilometres, bounded by Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, Hajdú-Bihar county, Heves county and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, is the second largest standing water in Hungary. Lake Tisza was created this year by flooding the water staircase above its 45-year-old small circles, which is important for Hungary today, in the present time, economically and tourismally. The bed above the reservoir contains some 250 million cubic meters of water. This water is a very important source of irrigation of the Tisza bed and the Tisza valley during such a low rain, where they feed the main channels of Jászság and Nagykunság. The Körös Valley would already have a negative water yield today, but they can also feed the Körös Valley through the water of the Tisza. [[15.00]] The Tisza main bed is a third class water road, but the so-called rinsing channels, with which the main bed and lake are connected, are also accessible waterways, and the water surfaces are also accessible, although these are not declared a designated water route. Lake Tisza is a natural protected area with a wonderful bird world, a wonderful, unique bird and animal world and a world of water-living fish. It is on the UNESCO World Heritage List, a member of the Natura 2000 system and network, and a cultural landscape linked to the special Ramsar Convention, since there is a wonderful bird world here. Our country's role in tourism is also unique. This is confirmed by the last August government decision that together with Debrecen, Hortobágy, Hajdúszoboszló, Lake Tisza is a priority tourist area and a priority tourist development area. The profile of Lake Tisza is growing for families, for active vacationers, for hikers, for cyclists, for fishermen and for families who choose to relax. In recent years tourism has developed more than average in the region. The usual 300,000 guest nights last year were 22.3% higher than the number of guest nights, and this year is also increasing. As early as July this year, Tiszafüred, the capital of Lake Tisza, exceeded the number of guest nights and tourist revenue last year, so it is one of the most dynamically developing tourist areas of our county. On the dam around the lake, the number of cyclists exceeded 45 thousand people until August this year, and this is constantly increasing. The number of fishermen exceeded 100,000 in terms of fishing days tickets. National music, cultural and gastronomic festivals are increasingly exploring the area around Lake Tisza. We can say that it is the most dynamically developing region in our country, culturally and touristly. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2013, the Tisza Lake flagship national programme was launched following a government decision. You've heard it, and I hope you've seen from your own experience how wonderful this area is. With my speech, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that Lake Tisza requires a complex programme, a complex management plan, since water management, flood protection, tourism, agriculture and their coordination definitely merit special attention. From an economic point of view, it would be very important that developments that have already come to Lake Tisza can continue to come dynamically, to obtain additional resources, as it would be very important if the Ludas-Abadszalók connecting section of the M3 motorway were to be built, resources would come for water plant regulation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And the mud dredging, too. Thank you so much for listening. I hope you'll all visit Lake Tisza. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2018-11-19-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr János Fónagy, Mr Secretary of State, applied for a speech. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-207	Thank you, Mr. President. The pillar of work and knowledge keep it, / The foundation of understanding love / And then the future worker's Hungarian / Satisfyingly sacrifice to you, Baross! This is how Gyula Juhász remembered Gábor Baross, who was a prominent economic and transport politician of the dualism era. In his life, his contemporaries respected the implementation of the transport policy ideas of István Széchenyi in a politician called Iron Minister, referring not to the railway, but to Chancellor Bismarck. Born 1848 in Pruzsina, Trenčín County. After his university studies, he entered the civil service career in Trencsén county, then entered the parliament in 1875, when he was only 27 years old, and soon became the lead speaker of the Liberal Party. He was particularly concerned with economic, commercial and transport policy issues during his parliamentary operation. Tisza Kálmán Baross, who belonged to the narrower environment of the General, remained faithful to him all along. He often defended his party leader with his own popularity when he was attacked by opposition. Following a major study trip to Western Europe, he was appointed Secretary of State in March 1883 to General Minister Gábor Kemény, Minister of Public Works and Transport. Three years later, he was head of the Ministry. Baross, this highly talented and ambitious politician, recognized that to achieve the main objective of the domestic political elite, the further development of reconciliation, the struggle for institutions expressing sovereignty alone is not enough, but is necessary for equality, just as today, the development of the economy and, above all, infrastructure, the country's progress depends on the development and quality of post, telephone, roads, roads, waterways, wider infrastructure, financial and banking systems, vocational education and training. Baross' extensive activities have, however, achieved the most spectacular results in rail transport, including postal and telegraph services, the road network and shipping. Its name is the nationalisation of a large part of the railway lines, the construction of the network, the development of river and maritime shipping, the construction of the port of Fiume, the regulation of Al-Duna, the conversion of the Iron Gate, the reform of communications by combining the mail and telegraph, the establishment of the Postal Savings Bank. Together with the construction, he presented the draft law on road development to the Parliament, in which he solved the issue of road and bridge duties, and organized the road administration that has been in effect until now. Like Széchenyi, Baross considered the regulation of the Iron Gate to be one of his most important technical tasks. Not only did he promote and organise his work, but he often checked it with his personal presence. In doing so, he got pneumonia and died young, 44 years old, and what I listed in his life's work he accomplished in five years. In person, the country lost a prominent figure of Hungarian citizenship rapidly catching up with the end of the century Europe. To his memory, the entire country has paid deep and sincere grief, since Kossuth's funeral there hasn't been such a great procession in the capital. The House suspended its meeting, the bells rang all over the country. He was, in a new spirit, a benefactor of his nation, strictly demanding the fulfillment of duty, worthy of the graceful memory of all of us. This memory is preserved today by a group of statues at the Eastern Railway Station. As shapers of government policy, we must do everything in our place and in our responsibilities to be worthy heirs of this Baross oeuvre. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity and for listening to me.
u2018-11-19-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group, applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Europe has become 200 years old and perhaps the oldest agricultural institution in the world, and this has given me the opportunity to mention some of the interesting aspects of preschool farming here in the House's walls from the last 200 years. [[15.10]] 8-9 generations graduated from the walls of the ancient alma mater and were taught here by figures who created agricultural research in Hungary, who made Magyaróvár a cradle and citadel of Hungarian agricultural science in the turn of the 1800-1900s. It is enough to think only of Sándor Cserháti, the founder of Hungarian scientific crop production and breeding, or Imre Ujhelyi, the pioneer of modern domestic animal breeding. Moving on, Hungary's borders are met with many names who also want to be here. For example, György Rédei, who settled in the USA, became a world-renowned expert in plant genetic research. He began his work in this field almost alone, and today we are at the point of using 16,000 laboratories worldwide. This line includes Lajos Jókay-Ihász, who, as a researcher at the US Army Food Experiment Institute, created food for the first American astronauts that can be consumed in space. I can mention names in a completely subjective way, as the time frame does not allow me to mention all the great figures of the last 200 years. For example, Csaba Anghi, who was the internationally recognised director of science at the Budapest Zoo, also implemented its development of European standards, but I must mention Gyula Gluzek, who thrived on the farm estate in Mezőhegyes, under whose direction this estate has certainly become one of the most modern agricultural farms in Europe. The travel arrangements received in the Old Castle, the talent and diligence of former students, were interestingly used not only in the field of agriculture. During the nearly 200 years of higher education in Hungary, we know of many interesting, sometimes surprising and unparalleled students. By hearing their names, they sound familiar, whether in the fields of sports, art, finance or politics. I would also like to recall the short story of the alma mater here. The Faculty of Agriculture and Food Sciences of Széchenyi István University and its predecessor, the Hungarian Institute of Economic Higher Education of Magyaróvár was founded in 1818 in Magyaróvár as an agricultural higher education institution. As I have already said, this was the first continuously functioning agricultural-higher education school in Europe, and I must mention the name of Antal Wittmann, a knight-scientist and Prince Albert Kázmér of Saxon-Teschen as founders of the institution. Their merit to this day is inexhaustible, and they are deeply respected by the students of the university at present. Besides, Hungary was not only a historical Hungary at the time, but there were students from Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic and Croatia, where they could learn not only theoretical but also practical knowledge. Despite the name of the school, the gates were open to all young people who wanted to learn. Education, as it was then customary in Latin, followed by German, according to the official language of the country. This era is closed by the revolution and freedom struggle of 1848-49, in which the students of the institution took an important part. In a few decades, the predecessor institution has achieved Hungarian prestige in the life of the country. Thanks to this key strategic role, the institution ceased to be a private school in 1850, and from 1850 to 1869 the institution continued to operate under the name of the Imperial and Royal Higher School of Magyaróvár. Magyaróvár thus continued to function as the only agricultural-higher education institution of the 35 million Habsburg Empire, affecting the agriculture and development of all Central and Eastern Europe. This 200-year anniversary is a great opportunity, in addition to remembering the institution here in Parliament, to reflect on what this higher education institution has given the country, and what tasks await us so that this institution can play a decisive role in the Hungarian agricultural higher education for at least the next 200 years. But I would like to commemorate this, these thoughts, in a speech following the next week's agenda. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2018-11-19-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik Group, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We can't rely on anyone but ourselves, unfortunately, with this line closed a letter from a disabled citizen who turned to me in Siófok to read the letter he wrote and to demand the presence of Prime Minister. Unfortunately, this letter, in its content and quality, is not suitable for reading it here in this House, because unfortunately it has used words about the operation of the government, the functioning of the European Union and the measures that I believe the walls of this House will not allow. But I think it's important to tell you what this lady complained about and what she expressed her opinion about. We're talking about a disabled pensioner, 60 years old, but rehabilitated. He has to make a living of 85 940 forints. She's alone, she lost her husband, and I think she's not the only one of the children of the Ratko era who are now 60 years old, but are forced to live alone. Sad. But the saddest part is, those who stayed here have a hard time living. Let's face it, food prices are constantly increasing, it is very difficult to pay the rent, regardless of whether the government is constantly talking about reducing the rent, but it is not possible to make a decent living on its own from less than 86 thousand forints. Indeed, he received the pension premium of HUF 18,000, but he drew attention in the letter to the fact that it is not fair that anyone who receives a pension of over HUF 80,000 will receive the full pension premium, the HUF 18,000, who, on the other hand, received less than this, has received less pension premium these days; if I know correctly, these fees were delivered this week and last week. Even he, who received the HUF 18,000, says that this is unfair to the others, for those whose pension is even less, and we know very well that many people receive HUF 28 500, the minimum pension is paid every month from the government in the year of the family. Besides retirement, I think that the hardest thing for a mother to know is to assess that she cannot see her grandchildren; she cannot see them because they are travelling abroad because they have not found their calculations at home. It is difficult to understand this precisely because there is a national consultation in which question 9 is: do you agree with the principle that the child has the right to a mother and father? In the explanation that is above all questions, it is that this child lives in loving care. Yes, in loving care, with a father and a mother. But we don't talk, we talk little about grandparents. Everyone knows being a grandparent is a dream. I would very much like to experience this, and I would like my grandchildren to live with us, and not only through Skype, through social media, and to meet them at family events; it is important not only to mother, father, but also to grandparents. This desperate citizen, a lady, a rehabilitated invalid pensioner, raises his word against them and asked me to interpret it here in Parliament to my fellow Members, and tell them that despite the government's actions, they will not solve the situation of pensioners. Measures that every citizen has the right to live in the deserved retirement age for which he has paid social security contributions and other contributions are still not enough. I called this lady on the phone and told her that, as she sent it, I would not be able to read the letter, and then she said to me: okay, but we will go to Parliament with a rolling pin and a broom, because we need to clean up this government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-212	Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, also came forward after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-213	Mr President, Dear House, In the genre after the agenda, how much longer? In my series, I usually deal with the situation of Hungarian citizens who are or have been evicted, and the presentation of their specific life situation. [[15.20]] However, now that the eviction moratorium gives Hungary a little grace period to settle their fate, I would like to draw attention to the factors that can clearly shape similar housing disasters. The elimination of housing savings banks, the elimination of virtually state support for their system in a few days, is an economic betrayal on the part of the government, which has often been covered by secretary-general and ministerial lies. For example, with regard to the one and a half million live housing savings contracts, the reasons for the cessation of State aid were quite simply lied when they said that the sole purpose of this construction was to build newly built apartments. Of course, they didn't tell the truth, just like they did when they said when they supported the CSOK, when they ran up their support, that anyone who had already signed a housing savings contract would use the CSOK. Mr. Secretary, it's a lie. So Fidesz repeatedly lied to the eyes of the Hungarian people, and we have to say that your plan and this dream world, or let's just say that their onionous fever dream, which was thought out for housing, excludes all our fellow Hungarians living in the condominium, for example, because they can't pick up CSOK, and, Mr. Secretary, 80-90 percent of the people living in the condominium were involved in some type of housing savings solution. The renovations were financed from this, and they were able to expand it, and, Mr Secretary, within two to three years, you will be affected by the fact that there is no replacement of a boiler, so accidents may occur, renovations that clearly harm families' housing goals and plans. Once again, a large part of the condominiums have no realistic lifespan other than the state aid for housing savings in order to implement these improvements. We also have to say that the madness you have in mind has an amazing effect on the population goals, against our common population goals, because I myself could support a real, genuine demographic governance, of course, some of its measures, but very, very many people have created the part of themselves needed for the CSOK by means of a state-supported means of house saving. In this way, it will be common to masses that not only their housing goals are being shifted, they will be forced to shift, but they will therefore also have to postpone the time of their childbearing or, at worst, to push all these plans abroad, if necessary. We also have to say that the madness that you have come up with has resulted, on the one hand, in an amazing and not only market-based rise in property prices, increase in rent rates, the release of rents, the fact that a rent in a large city, in the capital, is essentially priceless today. I would also like to say to you that it is not true with regard to the CSOK that you would have been able to increase the support. They have increased the amount of preferential credit that can be borrowed, which means that they will allow even greater borrowing for Hungarian families, but since many people can only raise their own share of the loan or loan-like solution, Mr State Secretary, I would like to tell you that they have achieved the situation that the services of the banks must be used by the citizens concerned at a higher level. So, if you will, a much larger crowd has been provided to the various practices of the banks on a much wider scale, in this way the government fighting banks in rhetoric, which, by the way, we know is not true, because it is only a political catch, but it has now proved by action that it represents the interests of commercial banks against the interests of Hungarian citizens. Therefore, there is an urgent need for a housing programme, a public housing programme, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that tomorrow morning at 9 a.m., the Economic Commission will discuss a better proposal aimed at restoring the state foot of the housing savings system, so we will try to approach the original state in terms of an integram restitution, after which we can have a professional debate on how, in which direction this system can be refined, but we must give back to the Hungarian people what this government seems to have taken away from the Hungarian future. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-214	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Tasó, Fidesz Group, applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, From the year of the 400th anniversary of the War of Independence led by István Bocskai, from 2004 onwards 22 November is the day of Hajdú-Bihar County, the day of the establishment of the Hajdú District. From 1609 he received a title in the county of Szabolcs, then even the settlements of Böszörmény, Dorog, Hadház, Nánás, Szoboszló, Vámospércs were initially confederated for their privileges, but their cooperation continues to date. On December 12, 1605, in Korpona, the National Assembly gave 9254 old duvites the status of collective noblemen for their stand in favour of Bocskai and their loyalty to home. The six cities of Hajdú had a wide range of autonomy, and they could practice the right to judge one by one, even the rights of the pallos. Each of them was led by a captain of his hair, with whom the king has assigned a chief commissioner as his supervisor. From 1699 onwards, however, the general assembly of delegates from the cities was free to elect the chief commissioner of the Hajdú District, who represented the district in everything. The Assembly led the administration and elected the parliamentary delegates. There was a court in every city from which appeals were brought to the Debrecen court. They were exempted from any burden of landlords and churches, as well as from taxes, duties, and thirties. In exchange for the state tax exemption, two months a year were served for free and beyond, but only within the country. The rights of liberty of the Hajdús were also recognised by the Imperial House, which included a separate article in the Parliament, thus maintaining the autonomy of the Hajdúság until the settlement of the county in 1876. The winding-up of the Hajdú district took place when the Hajdú Castle County, which became the seat of Debrecen, was added to the villages of Szabolcs county in southern Nyírség and Bihar. Dear Parliament, In the first fight of István Bocskai, the winner of our freedom fight, after an interesting struggle and an interesting story, it is important to remember what happened, as he has a message to this day. The former treasurer, the Archbishop of Bihar, and then the general Transylvanian independence of Transylvania, and the freedom of the Hungarian nation, seized all means. He was negotiating with the Turks, and he was looking for a solution with the Habsburgs, but he had to realize that this could not be done peacefully. The imperial court had Bocskai watched, and they were about to deal with the hairheads and their leader, the later prince. Their plan failed because Bocskai set the hairheads, their captains, General Petz's army, to his side. Excellent military achievement, ingenuity, cunning, and devious courage resulted in this great victory. By the beginning of November, the cities of Upper Hungary joined Bocskai on the news of the sleepy-diószeg battle. On November 11, he also enlisted in Košice, chased away Basta, who was desecrating and pillaging the population, and took over Transylvania and the Highlands. On 21 February 1605, the Transylvanian Parliament and the Hungarian anointed orders elected István Bocskai as a Hungarian prince in Szerencs, on 20 April. The prince did not take advantage of his military superiority, for him the independence of Transylvania and the guarantee of order in royal Hungary, freedom of religion was important. On June 23, 1606 the peace in Vienna achieved all of this. On 24 September, King Rudolf assured the prince of the possession of Transylvania-Partium in a separate letter, even if he did not have a son's successor, he also handed over and handed over Ugocsa, Berg, Satmar, Szabolcs county, Tokaj, Tarcal, Bodrogkeresztúr and Olaszliszka. In September 1606 István Bocskai was already seriously ill, and in his will he called his followers to observe the unity of the nation. He asked the inhabitants of Transylvania and Hungary for an agreement and a brotherly love. He said that as long as the Hungarian crown is on the head of another country, Transylvania should have its own prince, but if it is for Hungarian people, they should live together as brothers and sisters. István Bocskai, the prince of Transylvania, the master of the Hungarian Parts, the minister of Székelyek, became one of the greatest figures of our history as a God-fearing, pious man for the cause of the Reformation. Every year in Hajdú-Bihar county, the general assembly organizes the county holiday in another settlement. In the previous year, he was in Létévértes, before Derecske, Nyíradony, Komádi, this year there is a county ceremony in Kaban. I wish all the counties of Hajdú-Bihar good health, good luck to everyone who appreciates the glorious past, strengthens our great present, our hopeful partner in the future and cooperates with us. God bless the Hajdú-Bihar County. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2018-11-19-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group asked for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to address issues after today's agenda, and I intend to deal with them in the coming period, which are important issues, but because of the constraints of genres or the lack of time, they are regularly left out of Parliament's plenum during the period of frequent. Today's case, which I would like to deal with, is twofold topical, since we don't even have to look out the window anymore, everyone knows with the help of social media that cold weather has come and snow is coming out, and unfortunately, more and more people are in a worse situation, and they are forced to cross the street, either during the day or at night, to get through the cold weather. The government has come up with a solution to the homeless problem, and it's, you might say, a symptomatic treatment that seems to be trying to make people who live in public areas invisible. It must be stated, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not right for a person to fail to comply with the order of the public domain. However, those who have the ultimate opportunity to spend their days and evenings on the streets without shelter, shelter, and any kind of housing are not there for their own good, but often for their own good. Therefore, perhaps the maximum penalty and the principle of "to abolish it in the end" are not the best attitudes on this issue. But we would all be working on, and responsible legislators are working to lead the homeless to the social system of homeless care and to the social care system, but the current new legislative environment and this second actuality of this speech, the government decision to prohibit living in a public area, and to propose an infringement procedure, and later the infringement procedure becomes a lock-in if the courts decide, well, it may not be called a solution at all. We also know that there are nearly 240 organizations, 10 percent of which are ecclesiastical organizations that deal in some way with homelessness as a social organization, but their resources and their numbers are finite. We also know that there are 106 hospitals, 106 hospitals that, according to the place of residence or in any other case, supply those patients, those who are in need of help. Ladies and gentlemen, Here comes the problem, because most of the social organisations that deal with the lack of homelessness often take care of a place where they could be transported, or without consent, to the hospital, whether by means of emergency services or their own means, of our homeless countrymen, which is not a problem when someone really needs health care, but in many cases they use the hospital as a temporary station, a semi-solution, where they can spend a few days. There is care, there is hot in the hospital, and there is a proper meal, and it can also be said cynically that in good times there is a proper meal, because we know that Hungarian hospitals have very many shortcomings in this area, but one fact: hospital care is burdened with such deliveries. It is right, ladies and gentlemen, that those who are in need will be brought there, those who have to go there because of their health problems, but that this is used instead of the social care system, to circumvent the law or the government decision, is no longer okay, and such news is coming from the sector. Mainly, the hospitals in Budapest have seen a significant increase in the number of patients and, in particular, homeless people. This also places a heavy burden on chronic internal departments, medical departments, emergency departments and unfortunately psychiatric departments. This is only a problem because, traditionally, we are now at XXI. These health institutions are facing ongoing financial difficulties in the first century. Not only can they not employ the right number of workers, there is often a shortage of instruments, and there is no adequate financial framework to maximize the care, and the workers here and especially those working in these departments are overloaded. What is the foam on the cake is that unfortunately one of the most expensive forms of supply in Hungary is to go to hospital, because the hospital's daily allowance, which is one of the items of funding, can be considered to be a more expensive service than any five-star hotel in Budapest, so we provide one of the most expensive care for our fellow citizens who are otherwise in need or who are not in need. So the question arises, and I suggest that the government take care of this, look at and look at the burden this puts on the institutions in Budapest and County, examine whether health institutions have the capacity at all to carry out these tasks, and, if necessary and necessary, provide them with sufficient resources to make up for the resources they have lost and to continue to perform the healing process. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, the Jobbik Group, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2018-11-19-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, During last week's debate on the bill to transform vocational training, we raised a number of questions and doubts. The problem is that we have not received any substantive answers to these questions, the concerns remain, and Jobbik says no to the governors, and therefore we do not agree with the government putting commies at the head of vocational training centres. The draft would crush the remaining freedom of the vocational training system involving about a quarter of a million students, students in the daytime system and about 25,000 teachers in full-time employment, as well as a number of other employees. The aim of increasing competitiveness, which you have formulated from the government side, is noble, and we can agree with that, but it is feared that the chancellor system to be introduced in vocational training centres will be just another cadaver cemetery of Fidesz-KDNP, where the party commissaries appointed without application will rule over financial and human resources as life and death. The bill introducing total control, the radical transformation of vocational education and training, was submitted by the Ministry of Innovation and Technology without substantial social coordination, and therefore creates serious and legitimate trade union resistance. If the power is truly concerned with vocational training, Jobbik has some alternative constructive proposals on the more effective operation of vocational training centres. First of all, give more financial and moral appreciation to the workers in this sector. Then increase the autonomy of institutions with daily contacts with local economic operators, which are therefore better acquainted with them. Instead of creating post-ownership positions, focus on the provision of specialized teachers and instructors, as well as on the need to be well-trained by school social workers, social educators and school psychologists in these institutions to deal with social problems in vocational training and to relieve the burden of educators. Unlike the governors, all of this would be greatly needed, since the school is not a gladiator. It is evidence that, according to a recent survey, every second student in Hungary has replied that in recent months he has been involved in school violence as a victim or as a perpetrator. Luckily, it's rare, by the way, VIII. in the district, when a student of competitively boxing, gypsy origin beat his classmate to death in front of the school building. At the time, the judge of the first instance described school violence as normal, and in some unpredictably outrageous way, he rewarded this wild beast act with only a suspension. Of course, not only in schools where there is so-called resistance, but you can call it a culture of self-segregating opt-out, from which the Nersevik elite carefully separates his own offspring from the expensive private schools, since it was just two students of a good family who had been released from one of the famous Kaposvár high schools for ten years, preparing for their horrific act, who brutally murdered their partner for ten years. Although it may be possible to demand deterrent, serious judgments, I myself, permit them, but I believe in the deterrent power of hard retaliation, but it would be much more wise to prevent these tragedies. In the era of weaker family ties and social norms, where media patterns often guide young people, there is a great need to help teachers. To stop the spread of school violence, many social educators, school social workers and psychologists need to reduce the burden of teachers; this, of course, also requires serious budgetary resources. So I'm right to ask why the government doesn't invest more in this area. [[15.40]] József Bódis, State Secretary for Education, who, in his original occupation, is an obstetrician and gynecologist, considers this to be one of the keys to paradigm change, said at a MTA conference recently that the solution would be to choose the teaching profession by people who consider the teaching career not only as an opportunity for action. Again, I'd like to ask, have you so far been chosen by money-grubbers? It would be very good if we avoided such demagoguery, and the government started to deal with the problems of education in substance. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2018-11-19-220	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre László, Member of the Democratic Coalition, also spoke after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, And literally, this House! Today's meeting was dedicated by DK representatives to the Gruevski scandal, but we didn't know from the government how this convicted criminal got to the Hungarian border, but we did from the international press. Hungarian diplomats gave him hand-to-hand. Well, that's a world scandal, my dear House. The government ordering diplomats had to know that a convicted felon was fleeing Macedonian justice. It shows the gravity of the case that although, contrary to the Hungarian government's custom, ambassadors are rarely assigned to the Macedonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this time our Ambassador to Skopje was asked to join him by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We learned how Gruevski could cross the Hungarian border. It's illegal, of course. You can refer to the fact that the Asylum Act provides the government with exceptional opportunities. Art. 80. Paragraph 3 (j) clearly states that in the event of a crisis caused by mass immigration, an application for asylum may be lodged only in the transit zone and that this transit zone should also be designated as the place of residence of the applicant. There's no exception at this time. You have declared the crisis, but your own rules have not been complied with. Turns out Gruevski didn't come with a settlement bond. We also received an answer on the role of the Prime Minister in the case: he had to be given an order. Let's remember that it's the Btk. 353. According to §2 of the Act, aid for the illegal crossing of the state border is a smuggling of people, and the leader of this crime is under threat of imprisonment between 10 and 20 years of age. We don't know why the prisoner was classified as a person requiring special treatment. One explanation is that for security reasons, but they didn't tell us what danger they were able to protect the head of the ex-government moving freely in Budapest, which they couldn't do in the transit zone. The other argument is that Gruevski was Prime Minister for ten years, and this in itself explains the exceptional procedure. However, it has not been found that if this is the case, then in 2015 they did not treat Afghan and Syrian refugees who, for example, were parliamentary representatives in their country. We also didn't find out why Gruevski had come from a safe country and your rating of a safe third country, but why he hadn't been denied asylum immediately, as in any other similar case. We also did not get an answer as to whether they wanted to bring more criminals into the country for good money, provide them with a way out, or whether they are now satisfied with the ax murderer Safarov, Pharaon, who has been a terrorist funder and has since passed away, and it is estimated that there are about a thousand terrorists, traffickers and drug smugglers who have been freed to Hungary and the EU by settlement bonds. We know what the Hungarian authorities did when it came to the fact that the inmate looking for an international arrest warrant was in Budapest. Nothing. The government claimed that Gruevski was being persecuted by the Macedonian government under Soros' influence. This called into question the rule of law of Macedonia. However, it did not find out why it was voted in the Council of Europe at that time to open accession negotiations with Macedonia. We have also not been told whether the Hungarian Prime Minister will regularly reconsider the final judgment of the courts of the countries that closely cooperate with us in international law enforcement. The real question, however, is why the Hungarian Prime Minister needed all this. This question must be answered at a later stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2018-11-19-222	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, Democratic Coalition, came forward. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-223	Mr President, I wish to commemorate before you the name of Ervin Fővárosi Szabó Library, a man whose name was a red poster in the eyes of the bigot's right, and a right-wing dildo in the eyes of the left. It is about the theorist known for his anarchist thinking, the dreamer and creator of the metropolitan library network, Ervin Szabó, who died just 100 years ago, at the age of 41, in the then raging Spanish climate, now known as the flu. His death is mentioned in addition to social democrats by the editor-in-chief of Szeged Napló, Ferenc Móra, and the President of the Main Order House, Baron Gyula Wlassics. Around his grave stood almost every prominent figure of the Hungarian progression of his time, among others: Gyula Alpári, Manó Buchinger, Ernő Garami, Oszkár Jászi, Mihály Károlyi, Zsigmond Kunfi, Jenő Landler, György Lukács, József Majsar, Károly Polányi, and as Népszava reported on the funeral in September 1918, the memory of the Hungarian organized work with a ten-minute cessation. Born in Slanica, Orava County, 1877 as the offspring of an poorer Jewish civilian family. This village no longer exists, there is a huge reservoir in its place, only in the middle of it, on an island is the church of the former village, rising out of the water as Ervin Szabó's oeuvre from the history of Hungarian left-wing thinking. He was an extraordinary spirit, considered a socialist, a communist, an anarchist, a liberal, but none of the camps in his life really accepted him, his thinking was too complex to be crowded into any box. He studied law in Budapest and then in Vienna, but his interest quickly turned to statistics and library science. He joined the spiritual life of the left in Vienna. In addition to the socialists, he also had good relations with the syndicated, liberals and anarchists. He graduated in 1899 and returned to Budapest. He became a publicist of Népszava and an assistant editor of the Social Sciences Society since 1902, and was soon elected Vice-President of the Social Sciences Society, and was also involved in the editing of the first Hungarian sociological journal, the 20th Század. His friend was Mihály Babits, Renée Erdős, Oscar Jászi, József Majar, Béla Reinitz. He was friendly with the Westmen, you published. He also consulted widely on a Marx selection with the best-known marxists of the time, with letters from Bernstein and Kautsky. However, his argumentative and critical spirit was becoming less and less acceptable to the Social Democratic Party leadership, which, after the publication of the criticism of the Gothai programme, withdrew his support from the further publication of the selection because of Szabó's written notes. And when, in 1977, on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of his birth, the re-election came up, the communist culture policy was rigidly shut down from him; the ideologists of the state party were as annoyed by the critical interpretation of Szabó's notes as the former Social Democratic Party leadership. From 1901 he worked at the Metropolitan Library, of which he became director in 1911. Among the first in the world, he introduced a system of universal decimal classification, which was developed a few years earlier, which is still considered to be the best in the book register. He believed that education was the only basis for a viable society. [[15.50]] The world war and then the death of Szabo interrupted this work. A few years ago, it was a powerful and shameful attempt to take the name Ervin Szabó out of the name of Ervin Metropolitan Library. Luckily, that didn't happen. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-19-224	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Sándor Székely, Member of the Democratic Coalition, came forward. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, They say Napoleon once said that I don't care how talented my generals are, how well they know how to run the war, all I care about is that they get lucky. If he did, he would be very pleased with the Orbán government and the majority of the government, because until recently, they were so fortunate that they could not ruin it with the greatest dilettantism and the most indecent theft. They were lucky at the time of the global crisis. From 2006, the Gyurcsány government was forced to counterbalance the loose fiscal policy of the previous cycle. The results of this were achieved by early 2008. The European Commission's prognosis projected a 3.4 percent and 5 percent increase in our economy over the next three years. For the voters, this would have made clear the meaning of the restrictions. In the autumn of 2008, however, Lehman Brothers fell for it, and the dramatic decline caused by the subsequent global crisis still seemed to be a consequence of austerity. They were lucky with the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai, which dealt with the crisis regardless of the loss of popularity. Even in 2010, Viktor Orbán acknowledged this at his press conference in Berlin, and the closing accounting law submitted by the government, assessing the economic processes in 2009. They were also lucky that the European economy that emerged from the crisis turned to economic activity according to the law of the recovery periods, and the Hungarian economy started to grow rapidly from 2014. Undoubtedly, this was helped by the meanest pull of the year 2010, by the alarm of Kósa and Szijjártó about the near bankruptcy situation, which caused the forint to crash. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, above all foreign exchange loan holders, have been destroyed, but productivity has improved the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy even without the substantial development of the technology. Finally, they got lucky with the European Union, which, despite increasing corruption, has been generously financing the growth of the Hungarian economy, without which it could only stagnate. And he absorbed the labour force that you forced abroad, who did not contribute to GDP here and did not pay taxes here, but the fact that the budget did not have to provide them as unemployed, but they sent a considerable amount home was a great relief to public finances and to the country as well. All of this meant that the results of the economy's current economic policy and the freaky dilettant strokes were not able to make a difference. You guys used to put your cards on 19 and it's true, they always wore their underwear. But as we know, luck can change. Interest rates are rising worldwide, economic activity is running out, and the EU is satisfied that the funds it grants are being stolen at an industrial level, has suspended funding for several projects, and plans substantial sanctions against fraud for the next period. Although not called by its name, the government has already had to resort to drastic restrictions, such as the withdrawal of cafeteria, the plowing of housing funds, the total bleeding of health care and education. As the Hungarian economy has not been substantially modernised in the last eight years, all of this envisages the coming of the seven narrow years. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Don't you think it's time for a change? Don't you think the steam from the whistle should finally be released to the piston? Don't you think that Zoltán Pokorni's promise of eight years ago that anyone who touches the register will be cut off? Do you not see the time to sit down seriously with employees' and employers' representatives, to discuss how the performance of the Hungarian economy could be maintained despite the upcoming harsh times? Shouldn't third-class football teams in neighbouring countries be supported and the pyramids, I mean, instead of building stadiums, spend money on modernising the economy, catching up the land? Wouldn't it be time for a substantial tax reform, which is finally encouraging the employment of the poorest, not an important reduction for the wealthy? Shouldn't we at least restore the elements of the cafeteria that make it easier to work, housing, rent and travel? Shouldn't we close the income scissors that go beyond justice? After all, the poorer are those who consume almost all of their income growth, so the consumption that stimulates the economy would increase substantially. At all, wouldn't you have time to listen to common sense instead of luck? Thank you for listening. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2018-11-19-226	Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ms Csöbör, Member of the Fidesz Group, came forward. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week I was in Bregenz, where the Austrian Presidency of the European Union organised a conference on the principle of subsidiarity. It may not seem to be the most exciting issue at first sight, but the future of the European Union, the issue of division of powers, is a more important issue. What kind of Europe do we want for our children in the longer term? What European institutional system do we want to see in 2019? If we think about brexit, one of the reasons for the decision of British citizens was that they wanted more London and less Brussels in several areas. The framework for integration in the European Union is set out in the Treaties, and therefore also in its borders. Integration in the internal market should not mean that EU institutions disproportionately restrict Member States' competences in areas such as social policy, labour law, family law or criminal law. Digitalisation, climate protection or trade policy are issues at a level where EU action is needed, but in many areas Member States and their parliaments have a responsibility to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity is respected. The Hungarian Parliament obviously knows better what the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses around Miskolc and Miskolc are, for example. We have also dealt with these issues in the Parliament earlier, whether it is about maintaining the state definition of electricity prices or about posted workers. On these issues, we have acted not only with the Parliament but also with our Visegrád partners. We had to protect the results of the reduction of the rent and jointly express our reservations in the interests of Hungarian construction companies and carriers, because EU legislation has helped the protectionist aspirations of the old Member States. The Parliament must therefore guard against the protection of the competences of the Member States in matters of particular importance in the EU. In the EU jargon, we call this a yellow-plated procedure, and we must apply it even if the European Commission does not want to hear our position very much. That is why next year we need a really close committee. The conference looked for an answer on how we could interpret this principle in the same way. In my speech, I said that we see our role in EU affairs in the same way as the parliaments of the Visegrád countries. There is a need to check Brussels legislation at the beginning of the legislation. We must not forget that the unity of diversity is the Union, and therefore not all issues can be uniformised and unified with EU regulations. Member States should be given more leeway, more legislation on directives would be needed. So we are in common thinking about the future of Europe, what a Europe of 27 should be, how it can be stronger and at the same time more open, for example, to the countries of the Western Balkans. We count on the government's support for this important work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2018-11-19-228	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Márta Demeter, LMP Group, also came forward after the agenda. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[16.00]]
u2018-11-19-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since mid-August, the take-off directions of the Liszt Ferenc International Airport have been modified, so hundreds of aircraft fly over the X and XVIII daily. above the quiet parts of the district so far. Noise pollution has so far been enormous in the 17th, X, XIV. in certain parts of the districts, but the new flight directions do not represent a meaningful change to the noise sufferer so far, and today, due to the new measures, there is a huge increase in noise load. It is now the 16th and 18th. districts are also significantly affected, in Kőbány the area of the Ogyegy Park, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Hospital, the Újhegy residence and several schools and kindergartens suffer the harmful effects of noise stress. The patience of the residents and the local authorities concerned has long run out of the fact that the foreign operators of the Liszt Ferenc International Airport have been engaged in practices which have been irregular in the face of the Orbán government and its authorities for decades, which are far below international standards and existing legislation, causing permanent damage to people and their homes. They do so in order to increase their own profits unscrupulously. For example, HungaroControl should not be the Fidesz Alliance for the Nation Foundation to transfer 320 million forints of public money to a Fidesz party campaign, as it turned out in our data claim lawsuit, but to help the injured residents. It is a special picantria of the case that the Cultured Air Transport Association submitted a request for support to HungaroControl at the end of August, since then they have not been honoured with an answer, even though they are actually working to mitigate the effects of noise pollution and help the residents whose lives are being destroyed in this regard. The question is, whose interests are represented by the government, whether the foreign operators, who otherwise pay a significant tax on the budget, which is, of course, not known what the government spends on, or the hundreds of thousands of affected Hungarians suffering from the whole business. The affected residents are exposed to significant health damage, their homes and apartments are destroyed. But it seems that damage to health, human life and residential property is not a problem for the government. In addition, the airport is rapidly expanding its traffic, with a passenger traffic of 15 million instead of the previous 10 million, and the volume of freight transport is constantly increasing. Many of the affected residents are struggling with constant stress and health problems. The effect of the machines breaks down the top of the family houses. Even in the midst of the four walls, the situation is intimidating, selling and exchanging properties that are almost hopeless, which are constantly losing their value. The LMP responded to the complaints of the population by taking immediate action. We have also presented the subject to the meeting of the Council of Representatives in Kőbánya, for many times now, and we have finally achieved results. You can see that exerting pressure makes sense. For with the stakeholders who have been fighting for years, we have brought common pressure to discuss our proposal, which would reduce the noise burden in all areas. This submission was accepted by the representative of the LMP in Balázs Tóth district, who worked with several local residents and experts. With this change, it would be possible to minimise or eliminate noise pollution in all areas of Kőbánya. It was clearly included in the initiative for the Ministry of Innovation and Technology to establish new legislation on air traffic control. Here it is highlighted and named to cease at the airport during the deep sleep period, i.e. air traffic from midnight until 6:00 a.m. and cargo traffic may be moved elsewhere. It is essential for the public to finally establish a basis for the government to help the victims of noise pollution at the airport. After all, these people are not able to sell their properties properly, and a lot of people are suffering serious health damage. We certainly expect the Ministry of Technology to finally take a meaningful step in this matter and represent the residents, not the business interests of the airport operators. The LMP will continue to fight through its MEPs and municipal representatives to ensure that as many municipalities as possible join the initiative, and the Ministry of Technology will not take this issue lightly, the legitimate needs of hundreds of thousands of people living in the region and disturbed by the noise of aircraft. So we will continue to fight for a sustainable and complex solution as soon as possible.
u2018-11-19-230	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a post-meeting speech. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On Saturday, 145-year-old Budapest is facing a housing crisis. And let's not sugarcoat this, because unfortunately, to quote classics, the facts are stubborn things, comrades. What does housing crisis mean? I think that this is worth opening up a little, because the government's activities so far have not tried in any way to reduce the effects of this crisis. When we talk about housing crises, we talk about the difficulty of a young family starting their life in finding a place to live. We understand that they can't afford a separate apartment yet, and they can't find an apartment. I'll come back to that later. But in the same way, the same problem is faced by those who think they want to live here, in this beautiful city. Even more difficult is the situation of those who, for example, have suffered foreign exchange credit damage, whose house has been auctioned, whose entire assets, a life's work, have been taken away by the bank. Yeah, their housing didn't work out either. But this includes a series of college students who would like to study here, at the University of Arts or ELTE, because only the few lucky people get access to the dormitory. If we look at what these people are facing, on the one hand, we can experience a quite horrific rise in rent prices and the fact that anyone who wants to buy is confronted with the unprecedented heights of housing prices in Budapest. And let's not think that only in the Mountains or in the XI. in the prominent parts of the district or in the Castle District, these property prices are high! Today, an average apartment in Pest costs approximately HUF 30 million about 60 square meters. And if there are two children in a family, and there is a well-intentioned pair of parents, then to help their children with such a 30 million HUF apartment, 30-30 percent of them provide a share for a possible borrowing, that means twice 6 million HUF. I think it is understandable and understandable for everyone that a family rarely has two or two fortunes of 6 or 9 million forints, just to make the child in debt. On the other hand, I think that LMP has been representing for a very long time that this crisis should be addressed. And there's a solution. Even in the debate on the 2018 budget, we proposed to create a fund from which municipalities can draw funds through a tender for the purpose of building rentals. I understand that the government thinks that property is the only thing that's going to happen, but believe me, my fellow members of the government, that's not the case. Many people never have a dream of owning an apartment, and even if this dream doesn't come true, they still have to live somewhere. And now I will not open the otherwise morally questionable decision of Parliament when, by amending the Violation Act, they have violated homelessness. I would like to point out that we have said in the debate that the homeless system in Budapest will not be able to cope with the amount of people in need who have now been banned from homelessness by law. And here's today's news, it wasn't even in my notes after the agenda, István Tarlós is thinking that we should shut down the underpasses, because what it's like to go in there and sleep with the homeless. And the fact that the question arises and needs to be dealt with in substance justifies the claim that there is a housing crisis in Budapest and that the supply system cannot cope with these many needy people. [[16.10]] I could talk about where the lease law is, which also provides security to the owner, because it provides protection of property and security for the tenant, who, at the moment, as he cannot register for the address, is forced to fall half a sentence, and I have finished it, Mr President, from the public services which he is entitled to as a citizen. But since he doesn't have a registered address, he can't get it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2018-11-19-232	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, came forward. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2018-11-19-233	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Today we have heard from Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, that there is nothing to see, the green surfaces are growing in Hungary, and in Budapest, and everything is absolutely fine. I would like to illustrate in a few figures how wrong Mr. Secretary of State is, who is unfortunately not in the room, but we will send him the minutes as usual. So let's get started. In the Városliget, the museum project, it was claimed that the proportion of wooded areas will increase, but that is not true; it can be said, but it will not be true. According to civilians and environmental organisations, 600-800 trees will be the victims of this project. I would also like to add that even though the ruling party always claims that the green surface will increase, the green surface and the green area will simply be confused with the legal definition of what is a green surface, it is mixed. It is not as green as an ancient area covered with hundreds of years of trees, than cutting down and laying lawn bricks instead, as planned in the City Park, still reducing the green area. So here's one of these definitions that you're trying to confuse people with, and by the way, your statement is not true, because 600-800 trees are about to disappear in the City Park project. I'll go on, there's the Orczy Garden. Here, 131 trees were cut down in October 2013. Now you've got 145 more trees waiting for a slaughter permit. But it is possible that after unbelievable compromise and negotiations with civilians, only 100 of these trees will fall victim. I'm going to go on. There's still the Roman beach. Here 1500 trees will be destroyed. In addition, 24 trees have disappeared in the underground garage at József Rádor Square, so that's it, so it's over. The underground garage building in Kossuth Square was the victim of over 200 trees. In Széll Kálmán Square, which is inexplicable, why it looks the way it looks, almost all the trees have been cut down. So in one of the biggest and busiest Buda places, everything was cut out for some reason. Let me say that it was either a new construction invention, or someone with such a perverse desire for concrete, because everything in Széll Kálmán Square was cemented there. In the Tágály Swimming Pool, which was mentioned earlier as a success project in Budapest, there were about 100 trees that were cut down. In addition, I would like to talk about two areas closer to my home: Normafa and Mount Three. I'm only saying Mount Three because I finally managed to stop it, but in connection with the Olimpia project, they wanted to cut down a significant amount of wood. In this case, there was a successful edge, which my lawyer András Schiffer and I won against the Buda Civil Society, which is the second World Society. The personal propaganda basis of the district and Zsolt Láng, where it comes into a piece of paper about 47 times, and also from the perspective of image editing, hungaricum. I'm going to offer this to my colleague Zsolt V. Németh to take a look at it. In any case, this was the project that was successfully stopped by the fact that there were no Olympics in Hungary. Here it is so important for the people of Budapest and, to say to everyone, should have cut down trees for a project of vital importance, like a bob rink. Well, I don't know how we're gonna know, how we're gonna live without a bob rink right now. There's more Normafa. What happened to Normafa was that there was a local referendum, the question of which was not really understood what it meant, and therefore the majority did not go away. The government took this project and declared it a priority area. Here they will create a ski slope, and we still don't know exactly what the environmental effects of this ski slope will be, how many trees will be at Normafa, which is the lungs of Budapest, cut out, and why Fidesz simply believes in the saw here. Overall, let me say a few more sentences as to why this is important, it is important that the wooded areas are falling. Not because we LMP guys are such wood-hugging hippies, but because it's a serious public health risk. The fact is simply that this is the way to reduce air pollution in Budapest. The green area per person in Budapest is 5.4 square meters. WHO's recommendation is 9 square meters. In fact, every city in the region beats us to it. I go further: if you look at the percentage, in Budapest there is 2.7 percent of the urban green area, in Prague 5.8, in Vienna 4.4, in Berlin 5.5. By the way, in Moscow, I know more than I do that this means a lot to you. So I'd like to ask everyone to catch up with Moscow. Thank you very much.
u2018-11-19-234	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 26 November 2018. Thank you for your work. Meeting day's closed.
