u2014-11-17-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I would ask the staff of the House to assist us in removing the excess number of flags from the Chamber without delay. [[The staff of the Room Security Service shall remove the national flags of the European Union placed behind the benches of the MSZP from the Chamber. ? Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I understand that my socialist fellow Members can only bear the national flag with a colourful flag, sometimes red or blue. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: EU flag!]] but the fact is that this is the Hungarian national parliament now. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] You like to know? This Hungarian national parliament, the Hungarian national flag, has its place here. When another national parliament meets here, the order will be different. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There will be one soon! ? Interview from the lines of the MSZP: He gave the basic tone.]] Thank you very much. Now we can begin our session. Dear House, The 13th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, asked for a speech before the agenda today. The congresswoman has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, This week we will be discussing a number of legislative proposals such as the amendment of tax laws, the 2015 budget or the forinting of foreign currency loans, which in the coming years will cause many people, families, bitterness and difficulties in living. The combined effect of these laws exceeds the burden-bearing capacity of many families and businesses and is expected to increase further the number of poor. But at this moment, tens of thousands of people are most interested in forinting. There is no doubt that the government has deceived the foreign exchange lenders and has once again sided with the banks by making the forinting practically mandatory at the daily rate. For the record, the government campaign on bank accountability, which was about to strengthen the position of Fidesz-KDNP in the municipal elections, was a lie. Those who are now desperately counting are certainly not the banks, but those who are trapped in the currency trap. They are the ones whose capital debt may increase after the government's decision. However, a few weeks ago, Lajos Kósa said that the market rate would put foreign exchange lenders in an impossible position to the extent that the government's measures to date would become meaningless. It is quite clear to Lajos Kósa that this is a bad solution, as is the case with foreign exchange creditors and we know it. Yet the government chose this path. What the government is doing on the issue of foreign exchange credentials is just as it usually treats Hungarian society: it makes the rich even richer and does not care at all about the problems of the poor. For example, what will happen to some 100,000 debtors who have not been able to repay their loan for 90 days? Forinting foreign currency loans at the daily exchange rate is not a solution, but aggravate the situation. If the government had really been interested and interested in solving problems with foreign exchange credentials in distress, it would not have swept off the table the earlier proposals of LMP, which would have helped those who were threatened with losing their home. At the beginning of the last cycle, LMP called for a ban on foreign exchange-based lending and called for immediate resolution of the problem. Too bad after four years of waiting, that's all you got. Dear Parliament, As the weakening forint has put the debtors in a worse position in recent years, the MNB's foreign reserves in HUF have increased as the MNB acquired its reserves at the previous exchange rate level. Let's do the math. So if the euro, which the MNB had bought for HUF 250 previously, is now available to the banks for HUF 308, it means that the MNB can account for a huge profit of HUF 58 per euro, and this benefit is the loss of foreign exchange taxpayers. For this reason, the LMP finds the bill which, at the expense of foreign exchange taxpayers, provides huge profits to the MNB to be deeply immoral and unfair. The MNB, instead of making the currency available to foreign exchange lenders through banks for as much as it bought it, pockets a profit of nearly HUF 100 billion. And in recent months, we have seen what the MNB is doing with the profits on the weak forint. A total of HUF 350 billion was spent on the purchase of luxury office buildings, luxury palaces and artworks, and in support of foundations to promote the economic theory of György Matolcsy. I ask the Government and my fellow Members not to make this possible, and we must stop it. We commit the MNB to sell the currency to the banks for as much as it cost him, and of course we also oblige the banks to forint foreign exchange loans for the same amount. This nearly HUF 100 billion is missing for a fair settlement. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-17-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Répássy Róbert.
u2014-11-17-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at noon today, the Government has tabled the bill on which the congresswoman spoke, so Parliament will have a very detailed way of discussing the bill. However, I would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that this bill fits into a series of laws, namely that the first law was passed by the Parliament in June of this year, when Parliament decided, after the Curia's legal unit decision, which are the contractual terms which are considered unfair, and those contractual terms were declared invalid by the Parliament, of course allowing the banks to prove otherwise before the courts. So the first step was that the Curia's decision was carried out by the Parliament, which means nearly a thousand billion forints for families with foreign exchange and forint loans, and they receive nearly one thousand billion forints back. That's how much the Parliament eases their debt on the government's proposal in the adopted law. The National Assembly then decided on the so-called bill of accountability, the accountability of the banks, i.e. the National Assembly's decree that the banks should partially repay the unfairly taken amounts, and, in part, ease the debt of the debtors, reduce the Parliament's debt, and thus reduce the repayment. [[13.20]] Next, the third bill, which is also on the House's table, the bill on so-called fair banks, which closes the loopholes, closes the era of unfair lending. This bill will allow banking customers and consumers to be properly informed in the future. Finally, the bill on the conversion of loans fits into this line. Don't forget that this order is the order in which foreign exchange lenders are helped, so first their capital debt is reduced, their repayments are reduced, still in foreign currency, and then this result, which will be converted into HUF by counting banks. Let us not forget, too, that a number of foreign exchange credentials had benefited from the laws adopted by Parliament in the previous government cycle, such as the possibility of lump sum repayment or the possibility of a price barrier, not to mention the creation of an asset manager. This whole series of measures will help some 1.3 million families, so the Parliament and the government have done everything they can to reduce the burden on the victims of foreign exchange loans, and it is not the last thing that these foreign currency loans took place at the time when the government allowed such foreign currency lending to take place before 2010 and the financial supervision allowed such a large debt to take place in Hungary. So, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, we will still have the opportunity to debate two legislative proposals tabled by the Government, and, of course, we will have to look at all the measures, all the measures that help the situation of foreign exchange creditors together; this combined assistance is what Parliament and the Government have given to foreign exchange creditors and will give them in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-4	On behalf of the KDNP, Mr András Aradszki also applied for a speech before the agenda. It's about reducing population loss. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, For decades, we have known that the population loss that started in 1990 will be fatal for the Hungarian nation if the current government does not take effective action to change the trend in a lasting and decisive way. In words, many fought against the phenomenon, but the decisions taken before 2010 did not bring any practical and real results. In fact, the anti-family measures of socialist governments have even made the situation worse. At the same time, young people, while dreaming of three or more children, often find it difficult to commit to marriage, thus pushing out or failing to have children. This mainly meant a reduction in the number of marriages and an increase in divorce rates. In the long term, this resulted in an increase in the number of broken families and the proportion of children born out of wedlock. The psychological, social and social consequences that are detrimental to parents and children cannot be measured today, but they certainly do not benefit the people involved or the nation. It was clear that the solution would be long-term reinforcement, support and family security. The laws and regulations that promised a serious and lasting improvement in this matter began to come after 2010 when the government, with the support of families, with the development of an action plan for the protection of jobs, the restoration and further development of children and children, the extension of family tax incentives, the gradual expansion of textbook support, the construction of nursery schools and kindergartens, and the stabilisation of the situation of families, proved that it was serious about halting population loss and reversing the trend in the long term. This was noticed and appreciated by young people. This may indicate an increase in the number of marriages. According to the latest data from KSH, the biggest increase, which was 21 percent, was due in February. The number of marriages exceeded 3.6 percent in the first eight months of the year and the same period in 2013. This meant 964 more marriages. Perhaps as a result, it is now clear that in the first eight months of 2014, the rate of population loss has decreased sharply. The latest KSH report shows that 59,627 children were born during this period, which is 2.9 percent more than during the same period of 2013. In addition, the number of births increased to the greatest extent in April, representing a 9.4 percent increase in the period. From January to the end of August this year, the number of thousands of inhabitants was 9,1 living and 12.5 deaths, so overall, we can say that the rate of natural weight loss decreased from 4.1 to 3.4 per cent last year. This is another good news especially for those who have long been concerned about the non-decreased rate of population loss. For us Christian democrats, this result is particularly important, because, in addition to seeing the success of our policy unfold in it, we can fulfill our conviction, which the second Vatican Council and the social teaching of the popes have repeatedly stated strongly, and this is that the family is the basic cell of society. Dear House, All this now seems to be achieved by the government's action and by the confidence of young people to increase tax revenue, to increase the country's development beyond moral values, to flourish the economy as a result of consumption, and to make the pension system more stable. May God grant the continuation and the completion of the process to the survival and growth of the Hungarian nation! Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-6	On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm glad some people are having fun with that question. In my opinion, we are currently talking about one of the most important issues of our nation, so I would like to thank the Member for bringing this issue here again. I think that we cannot talk enough in this House about population development, population loss and the halting of population loss. Please ask me as many questions as possible about this. Is that true? as Congressman mentioned, and has he listed the relevant figures very precisely? that Hungary's population has been running low since 1981, i.e. since 33 years. If you think about it, this meant the loss of 800,000 Hungarians in 33 years. I think this is a very serious problem. The Hungarian population is currently losing weight. The fact that statistical data are somewhat more favourable does not mean that the population's weight loss has stopped, but our aim is to stop this weight loss and, if possible, reverse it. It's such a serious business. I would also be very careful in the analysis of statistical data, and I always try to be careful. It is precisely because the evolution of the population movement data does not happen from one month to the next, and from the data of a few months we may not be able to set up long-term trends, but I trust that these positive data, which we have learned from one month to the next this year, really indicate that something has started, a positive process has started, and this positive process will continue in the future. [[13.30]] Every month we look forward to the Hungarian Central Statistical Office's population movement data, and we hope that these numbers will also improve and increase in the future. If you think about the fact that the number of women of childbearing age has decreased by 5 percent and will also decrease in the next 15 years, then the only way to change these processes is to have more children and have more children. The fertility rate has now returned to the pre-crisis level in Hungary, which means 1,34, which means that an average of 1.34 children are born in a family. What is encouraging, however, is that when young people in Hungary think about having children, they are planning more than two children on average, so their childhood is around two children. Unfortunately, we do not have so many children in Hungary, which is why we set the government's goal to promote the birth of the children we desire and plan, and to do so with the most tools available to us. I would not like to repeat the data that the Member has said about the fertility rate, the development of the number of marriages or divorces. Fortunately, the number of abortions has also decreased recently, but we are still facing a serious problem here. Our aim remains to reduce this number in the future. What is the reason why we hope that the willingness to have children will be positively affected by government measures? We are pursuing predictable, long-term family policy and population policy. The fact that we restored the three-year-old child, with which we were trying to suggest exactly the predictability that lies ahead of a woman in Hungary, is that if she thinks and can do so, she can stay home with her child for three years. That is the case again, which was not the case at the time of the Socialist Government. We have established a system of family support at the statutory level, which again contributes to strengthening security. And every action we take, we focus on families, and we focus on the perspectives of families. Over the past four years, we have spent 700 billion HUF more on financial support for families alone. Here I could mention the positive changes in the family tax allowance, either the extension to multiple children, the deductibility of contributions or the significant increase in the family tax allowance for three children. But I could also say that the maximum amount of weed has increased by 38 percent, or that we have spent 28 billion forints in the last four years to expand crèches. Although we have achieved many results, the results of these decisions will be confirmed in the coming months and years, but we have not stopped, but we have joined the next stage. Here I could mention the introduction of a marriage tax reduction from next year, a double tax reduction for two children by 2019, or a family home-building discount, which now allows single children to benefit from a second-hand apartment. We will continue the cradle-building programme and we want to achieve and help the compatibility of work and family by various means. I trust that, since this is the most important issue of our nation, we will have the support of all the Members in this House in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-8	It is now time for Congressman János Volner, from Jobbik's group:. While the government's success propaganda is raging, the government has put in the budget for old cuts and new taxes. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-11-17-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government submitted the 2015 budget, which Jobbik described as the old austerity and the new tax budget. Why did we say that? When we asked Deputy Prime Minister Navracsics here in Parliament how many socialist austerity packages were repealed from the six austerity packages adopted by socialist governments eight years ago, the Deputy Prime Minister could not mention any specifics. Last time I asked Mr Tállai, Minister of State, and the Secretary of State also closed his reply without any concrete details, and began to talk about the slow elimination of the possibility of foreign exchange lending in Hungary. Mr. Congressman did not understand the suggestion, as we were talking about austerity packages. Where is the country at when the government talks about Hungary's roaring, the economy is getting better and better? Four of the seven geographical regions in Hungary are one of the 20 poorest regions in the European Union. Romanians or Bulgarians are one hair worse than this, there are five or five regions among the poorest twenty regions, but half of Hungary's population lives in 20 poorest regions in Europe. So the economy clearly doesn't look good. 600 thousand people are working abroad, and they are practically economically displaced by the joint work of your government and the previous socialist government. Seven new taxes are required to pay more than in 2010 according to the draft budget submitted next year. This is a fidesz way of saying that the tax system has been simplified and the burden of entrepreneurs has been eased. More taxes, fellow Members. Interestingly, the state's social expenditure is falling, the poorest, the weakest, but the state's operating expenditure is increasing at the same time. In English, the bureaucracy of which Mr. State Secretary's government wants to reduce its cost is becoming more and more fat and more expensive, costing more and more tax forints. The Prime Minister mentions cheaper taxes in the energy sector, saying that the country needs cheaper energy, and a week ago Parliament voted to raise taxes on electricity, natural gas and coal. Interestingly, there is also a complete contrast between government communication and reality. What's happening? The government is declaring a reduction in rent, but with taxpayers' money, it puts 50-60 billion forints back in the pockets of district heating companies every year to compensate for the loss of profits, compensates them for the losses suffered. The government is talking about lower taxes, while Hungarians are forced to pay the world's highest VAT rate, the 27 percent VAT rate. And how interesting it is when Jobbik suggested that families with children should at least have a 5% key to basic food and child-rearing articles, then it was swept by the government that there was no money for this. But what did we vote on last week, Mr. Secretary? The fact that you have freed oil from mining fees from increased efficiency in cultivation processes. So interestingly, the oil lobby doesn't have to pay taxes, where zero percent became the key to the mining fee, but families don't even have tax reductions for basic foods. This is the value crisis that has resulted in a significant proportion of the country's population being poor in Hungary. This is also demonstrated by EU statistics. According to Eurostat's latest current report, 33.5 percent of the Hungarian population, i.e. exactly one third, live below the poverty threshold, and I would add that the poverty threshold was examined in relation to the country in question, because if the poverty threshold had been measured to the Western European countries, Mr Secretary of State, the picture would be much more mournful. What could have been done to boost the country? We should not have started by trying to attract foreign companies with extra tax incentives and filling them with other people's forints, but by building a tax system to support the Hungarian economy and production instead of your unfair one-key tax system. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-10	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2014-11-17-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He began by saying that we have not yet been able to say anything concrete about withdrawing the austerity packages of the socialists. Allow me to tell you a few specifics now, I just ask you to listen, because I also said these things at the Economic Committee meeting, but you have not memorized any of them. Let's start with the overhead cuts. We all know that the prices of gas and electricity have increased 12-15 times in eight years. During the Fidesz administration, we have stopped this, we have not increased the fees, and, more than that, we have achieved a significant reduction by reducing the costs. So far, we have left 350 billion forints in the family pocket, and the next effect of this will be 150 billion forints in 2015. That's one of them. Secondly, the Socialists in the public sector have cut off the 13th month's wages, thereby significantly reducing the real value of public sector workers' income. [[13.40]] In contrast, Fidesz launched career models, such as the teacher career model. There have been increases in incomes in health care, and we know from the next year's draft budget that the career model of defense and law enforcement workers will also be launched, which will mean a significant increase in income for this sphere. Moreover, as tax laws change and income rises, real income growth is characteristic of the sector. Third: the same is true of pensions, since the Socialists also took away the 13th month pension, and what is more, they did not just take it away. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: I had it for two years. ? It's a lot of noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Instead, they have pursued an economic policy, the essence of which was to raise the pension a little bit, but to increase inflation more, and thus the real value of pensions has been steadily reduced under the socialists' governance. This cannot be said for the administration of Fidesz, because Fidesz has either maintained the real value of pensions at least, so it has provided a pension increase equal to or higher than inflation, especially in recent years. And, well, I'm sorry, you mentioned the question of foreign exchange credentials. I'm going to mention that again. Indeed, the socialists brought the Hungarian families into this hopeless business, offered them great hope and opportunity, and then left them in it, and the Fidesz government had to face the problem and eliminate these problems and difficulties. [[István Szávay: introduced in 2001.]] So in total, I have told you four such items, which we do on the contrary, like the socialists. His argument that taxes under the Fidesz administration have increased may have increased in number, but not in any way, nor has the tax burden increased. So we took over the tax burden by 41 per cent of GDP, now it is between 38 and 39 per cent, and the rate of income tax has fallen, the revenue of taxes collected has also decreased as a percentage of GDP, and the revenue ratio of the budget has decreased as well. Thus, personal income tax, which is paid by individuals for the income earned, or the corporate tax rate is below 10% for the tax base below HUF 500 million, i.e. for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, I think that traffic and consumption taxes have increased in sectors that have so far not contributed proportionately to public burdens. Taxes have increased in this area. Moreover, in this respect, there was indeed a shift in overall tax revenues in favour of consumption and turnover taxes. But we can also look at the extent of inflation, because we can see that today, in essence, there is no inflation in Hungary, which is certainly helping people to make a living every day. But in order not only to operate with statistics, there are two things I would like to say. On the one hand, the European Union has changed Hungary's economic macro numbers, significantly increased economic growth, employment figures, recognising the country's performance [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and the IMF did the same indirectly when it said that austerity policy had failed. So Hungary is on the right track in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-12	Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-13	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to Mr Secretary of State's reply, do not be surprised if there are a series of protests about public uprising today in Hungary, the capital city, in more than 20 county cities. This is that you have been ruling for five years, and after five years you still think about what we have done; and in four years you have expanded and deepened poverty in Hungary. You've taken me and given me privilege. Well, don't be surprised if hundreds of thousands of people feel that the current government doesn't represent their cause, but only represents itself. Therefore, public uproar is justified and understandable. People are right, ladies and gentlemen; everyone who goes out on the street today and tells us that in the social policy, economic policy and international policy of the current government isolation and crisis marks are growing and growing, that you, in contrast to your promises, have thought, in recent weeks, that by leading the Internet tax away, you might be able to remedy social dissatisfaction. You can clearly see that it is not the people's problem whether there is an Internet tax or not, but their problem is that you have been explaining, attacking and fleeing reality for weeks. And the reality is, right now, we still don't know what happened at the NAV. We don't know what happened in the matter of VAT fraud. We know that Hungary is paying tribute to the largest VAT in Europe. In recent years, we have repeatedly told you that you are not helping, Mr State Secretary, your tax policy is not helping to increase consumption in Hungary, and the President of the Central Bank himself has acknowledged this a long time ago. So you might as well back off on this subject. After all, despite all the declines you are proclaiming, it is becoming more and more difficult for people to live in everyday life. In general, a cornered government is one of the main weapons of attack. You've done this brilliantly. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Szilárd Németh can produce conspiracy theories in particular. Brilliant! There's one problem: behind his conspiracy theory lies reality. The reality is that Hungary today has a public institution that does not enjoy the public confidence of society at the level of leadership. As long as it's not restored to the NAV's leadership...? there is no clarification of its involvement in these matters, until society's legitimate expectation is to show dissatisfaction, to protest. Finally, did the Prime Minister, last Friday, consider what the United States has done over the past few years? I mean, has this been published several times in the last few years? He signaled you. I'm sure you don't know about it, and you didn't discuss it. But government officials know exactly who might have been involved in these matters. But speaking of notes, I would like to tell you that there are 34 cases at the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in the investigation of the European Anti-Fraud Office. I also don't know if they know about this. As long as you do not talk about this in public and make it clear that you cannot be the head of a public institution in Hungary that is not happy with all taxpayers, you are not happy that you have to pay more and more, but you do, you cannot stand the social mandate that you need today, as well as the government and opposition. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the moment has come for you to realise that you should not only listen to the voice of the people in the case of the Internet tax, not only in the matter of the NAV, but also in the tax laws and the budget, the voice that says that it has been enough. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Fidesz.]] I've had enough of that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , that's enough of that...? You know, yes, the people have words. That's what they're doing right now at 6:00 p.m. for your sake, because you won't hear it. However, it would be important for both the government and the opposition to seek solutions to the existing social problems that you have been ignoring for the past four years. It's time! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You have to admit, people are right. Thank you.
u2014-11-17-14	Mr. András Tállai has the floor again. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, The people are right, we agree on that. The people were right on April 6, May 25 and October 12. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? István Szávay: Meg Ózdon.]] The people of Ozdon were right, too. [[Dr. András Schiffer: ? Dr. Gábor Staudt: How do you get out of this?]] That's how you come out. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] that the majority of the body of representatives of the local government was voted by pro-government representatives, so Ozdon left the right to make a decision to Fidesz in the same way as in the country and parliament, let's leave it at that. [[Interview from Jobbik: There was no repeated choice there.]] [[13.50]] Dear Parliament, Today's demonstrations will, of course, be respected by the government, the Parliament, and the opinions and messages that are heard there will obviously be taken into account; obviously, this proves that democracy is functioning in Hungary. So the arguments that you are trying to discredit the country and the government abroad are that there is a dictatorship and that in Hungary you cannot express your opposition, just that these demonstrations prove that if someone wants to express their opposition or other opinion in this way, this can be done in Hungary. Like with the banning scandal? Is it because the faction leader slammed back and forth? in connection with Mr Tobias, I think that you have chosen a very dangerous course, because you are attacking a public institution, attacking the head of a public institution, against which no Hungarian authority has otherwise made any accusations, suspicions, or even the contrary, stated that the person you accused of being involved in any corruption or any VAT fraud, or that you were interested in ensuring that the tax authority did not collect the maximum tax revenue. But if you'll allow me, the last time I told your fellow faction a week ago, why don't you ask your fellow believer Dezső to leave the faction, if you're so critical of the head of a public institution against whom there's nothing but accusations and charges. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] He is suspected of a specific matter by the Hungarian authorities. If you are doing this to the head of a Hungarian public institution, who is one of the most important tasks, responsible for tax collection and tax collection, and for taxation itself, then you should set an example that your own groupmate, who is already suspected of being in fact by the authorities in a specific case, should already assume political responsibility. Do I think that both the Hungarian Government and the ministries and the Hungarian authorities are doing their best to do so? 'Cause you mentioned checks? that they are at the disposal of the control authorities at international level or in Hungary, and it is clear that if they have such findings, the consequences cannot be missed. For example, OLAF launched 24 investigations in Hungary in 2014, 15 of which were already closed. Honourable Congressman, I think that Hungary represents Hungarian interests and Hungarian sovereignty, both in terms of economic policy and social policy, and in terms of its international policy, and it is in the interests of Hungary, and in this respect the country is certainly on the right track. But this will obviously be judged by voters, judged by the people who will be affected by the government's family-friendly policy in their homes and families. I respectfully ask you to respect these decisions of the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-16	The last of the speeches before the agenda will be Mr.Antal Rogán Group leader, on the Fidesz side, with the title "The Accountability of Banks and the Forinting of Foreign Currency Loans." Here you go.
u2014-11-17-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, about 650 thousand people still have foreign exchange loans, and more than twice as many people, over 1 million over 200 thousand, have forint loans. If, at the time, in 2003, the then socialist-free Democrat government had not abolished the subsidised forint housing loans with a discount rate, then obviously not 650 thousand people would have had foreign currency loans, but much less. [[György Balla: That's right! ? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Who authorized it? Who issued the bonds? Who authorized it?]] Let us also add, ladies and gentlemen, that, in recent years, not only the currency-credited ones have been fooled by the banks, but also the forint-credited ones, not only have they unilaterally increased interest rates on foreign exchange-crediters, they have not only imposed all kinds of extra burdens on them, but also on the forint-crediters, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, years ago, when we faced this problem, we promised the treatment method that we would try to meet the following goals. First of all, we will reduce the burden on foreign exchange creditors; we will ensure that they do not suffer worse than if they had taken on a forint loan at the time; and we also added, ladies and gentlemen, that we will do this without having to face uncertainty in the future. So once their repayments are reduced, their burden is reduced, they can be predictablely the same for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, There were two ways to get to this path. One option is to do the same thing as in final repayment, and to use the option of a reduced exchange rate. This possibility was clearly excluded by the Hungarian Curia, the Hungarian banks; more specifically, the Hungarian court clearly ruled it out. However, the Hungarian court has given us the opportunity to go another way, my fellow Members, in that it has given us the opportunity to have the banks accounted for. Therefore, the court did not allow the conversion of loans at a reduced HUF exchange rate, but allowed the banks to be accounted for, allowed us to reduce the burden of the authentics through the accountability of the banks, reduce capital and reduce interest. Three laws have already been adopted or will be adopted in this House which together serve this purpose. One is the Act on the Settlement of Banks, the other is the Law on the Forinting of Foreign Currency Loans and the third is the Law on Fair Banks. As a result of the three laws combined, honourable Members, the following changes will occur in a typical foreign exchange debtor. For example, the foreign exchange taxpayer who took out a loan of HUF 6.8 million equivalent to 43,000 Swiss francs at the time, and now? Based on September 2014 data? It owes 8.8 million, after that forinting, the capital is reduced to HUF 7 million. He is currently paying a HUF 91,000 instalment, after which he will pay a payment of HUF 65 thousand; and the same can be done for every typical foreign exchange debtor. It can therefore be said that the law on fair banks, the accountability of banks and the forinting of foreign exchange loans will result in the reduction of an average currency loan of HUF 25,000, and this will remain at this level for a long time, my fellow Members. This is the serious result of the adoption of the three laws together in this House. And it can also be said, ladies and gentlemen, that as a result of this law, foreign exchange lenders today are better off than if they had been repaid from a forint loan at the time, because they would have a higher burden than this, by the law on bank accountability, fair banks and the law on the forinting of foreign currency loans. It therefore seems appropriate for these proposals to be dealt with together and adopted jointly by this House. I would also like to ask my fellow opposition Members for their support, because in this way, while complying with the legislation, without increasing the burden of the state, we can permanently reduce the burden of foreign exchange creditors by 25-30 percent, and I think that is in everyone's interest. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to add one more word on one matter at the end of my speech before the agenda. I think it is important that democracy works, it is important that people on the street can express their views and let me add to my fellow socialists: is it even more important that they do so? Not like October 23rd, 2006? I don't think there's gonna be an eye shot, and I don't think there's gonna be a beating. [[Plague in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Because when you were in the government, this was what was meant for the protesters, honourable Members. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-18	On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert will answer. You have the floor. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2014-11-17-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, I would like to add so much to the list of the laws that you have said, so that the House does not forget that the Parliament elected in 2010 has dealt with the problems of foreign exchange lenders three times on the basis of the then majority decisions. So we have adopted five laws to ease the situation of foreign exchange lenders in total, since this House has adopted the proposal for a lump sum final repayment, which meant escape from the trap of foreign exchange credit to hundreds of thousands of families. [[14.00]] This House has adopted a bill on the exchange rate barrier, and this House has also adopted the Asset Manager Act, so we have already done everything we can to ease the situation of foreign exchange lenders before 2014. And as the head of the group said, the next law is about unfair conduct, unfair lending practices. Are these decisions within the framework set by the Curia? now, within the constitutional framework established by the Constitutional Court? They made it possible to account for the banks, so the Curia's decision and the Constitutional Court's decision created the legal basis for the House to return the amount of HUF 1000 billion from the banks to the families, and from the banks to the benefit of the families, such a large amount of loan and burden relief will be returned as a result of the settlement. And in this line, the next step is indeed the bill on fair banks on the House's table, which will give customers, customers of consumer credit contracts the opportunity to find out in a proper manner in the future, should not be misinformed again, should not once again be persuaded by information that has led them to the conclusion of bad credit schemes, which have caused, among other things, the release of foreign currency credit and the increase in the burden of foreign exchange credit families. The other important step in the Fair Banking Act will be to make unilateral treaty amendments, i.e. amendments to the contract that the Curia called unfair and deemed invalid under unfair terms, in the future will only be possible in a very narrow manner, as the bill you know requires that only if certain external circumstances occur, so never in the bank's home, the bank's own problems will be corrected unilaterally. Of course, customers will have the right to withdraw from this contract, and even to change banks, to take their credit to another bank, and to do so absolutely free of charge. So the bill on fair banks is a guarantee for citizens who take out loans. And this line will, of course, fit the bill on forinting realising the outcome of the settlement: accountability will significantly reduce the burden on families, significantly reduce the debt of that 1.3 million households, and instead of being indebted in foreign currency, a loan that is already predictable and affordable for the future will lie on their shoulders. I therefore consider it very important for this House to see these legislative proposals together and not to believe that forinting is really the only proposal here that determines the fate of foreign exchange credentials, but, of course, with all the proposals facilitating their foreign currency lending situation? which is a total of seven laws if we accept the forinting? The government and the Parliament respond to the situation of foreign exchange creditors, while before 2010, the National Assembly did not try to resolve the situation of foreign exchange lenders by any law, the then majority of the government did not help the foreign exchange lenders. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. With all due respect to Klemetti N in the box of honor? ♪ ♪ ♪ oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, Mr rvi, President and escort of the Parliaments of Finland and Lapland who, at the invitation of the Speaker of the House, are present in Hungary on an official visit. We also wish you success and a rich stay in Hungary for your further discussions on behalf of my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-11-17-21	Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik; László Varju, independent; Ikotity István, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Márta Demeter, MSZP. On Tuesday's day, the following representatives came forward before the agenda: Imre Vejkey, KDNP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; István Szávay, MSZP? [[It's grumpy.]] written according to the script? instead of Jobbik; Lezsák, Sándor, Fidesz. Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik [[The president's ringing the bell.]] ; Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, MSZP. On Wednesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.On Thursday, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Kiss, MSZP. No one came forward to speak after the agenda on Friday.
u2014-11-17-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time, the speaker's speeches will be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, The government today is T/2055. It submitted its bill on the modification of the currency of each consumer loan contract and the settlement of issues relating to interest rate rules, and initiated this, as well as the T/1997. The Parliament discusses bill No.2 in the framework of an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, In this context, both proposals for amendments should be submitted by 16 a.m. on 19 November, the consolidated debate will take place on 21 November, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on 25 November. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. 99 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/1997 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 144 votes to 25, with no abstentions. I'm asking you if T/2055 is accepted. the examination of a proposal with a serial number in an exceptional procedure according to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 144 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, After what has been said on the House Committee, during the presentation of the President's agenda, I propose that the parliamentary assembly proceed as the first item on Friday, together with the combined debates in the exceptional procedure, by doubling the time frame of the house rules. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Government proposed that, at today's meeting, the 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain measures and detention of infringements. T/1707 on the amendment of Act T/1707 and related other laws Bill No. 1 and T/1929 amending certain laws on judicial and private law T/1762 on the conclusion of the declarations set out in the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender procedure between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway It shall take place after the hearing of a bill with a serial number. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, I propose that the T/1794 on Hungary's 2015 central budget. The Parliament will discuss the number of proposals within a 30-hour time frame. The agenda recommendation shall include the allocation of timeframes. Before the notary presents these, I would like to inform the Parliament that, at the meeting of the House Committee, the factions took note that, in order to ensure a proportionate use of the time frame, the chair of the meeting may depart from the normal order of the speeches. It was also accepted that technical time, speeches by MEPs and speeches by ethnic advocates would lead to changes using television broadcasting time. Now, I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the motion for a time frame allocation.
u2014-11-17-23	Dear Parliament, The proposed 30-hour timeframe is divided into 620 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 344 minutes for the MSZP Group, 309 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 280 minutes for the KDNP Group, 185 minutes for the LMP Group and 62 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. The time-frame of the agenda appendices shall include the time frame of the faction per day and the system of television broadcasting, which has emerged taking into account the factors described previously by the President.
u2014-11-17-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to discuss the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal with 147 votes in favour, 24 votes against and 1 abstention in a 30-hour timeframe. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. Before that, I would like to announce that the T/1708 on European Territorial Partnership. There was no proposal for an amendment concluding a detailed debate on bill No. 46, but the Government was entitled to amend Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure. § 4 of the Acting Committee initiated the procedure, and therefore the submission will not be discussed at this meeting. I would like to remind you that, in the light of the exceptional procedures adopted, I have put forward my proposal on the agenda as T/1997. and T/2055. The joint joint debate on legislative proposals will take place on Friday as the first item on the agenda, doubling the time frame of the house rules. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:16 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, How long will he cover the Századvég? It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2014-11-17-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, You remember I interpelled you two weeks ago, and then you accused us of representing American interests, and accused us of accusing hundreds of thousands of government officials of being on the list that the United States put together and who were restricted their access to the United States. As it turned out, Ildikó Vida and the senior officials of the NAV are on this list, so our suspicions, our suspicions, were well founded. You know, Minister, there are people on this list who, according to the United States, have credible information about whether these people are involved in or benefiting from acts of corruption. Domestic press reports highlighted not only the NAV and its related persons, but also the leaders associated with the Századvég. Neither Péter Heim, nor Gábor G. Fodor, the strategic director of Századvég denied that some of the company's owners would be on the list the United States has compiled. Dear Minister, You see, this is the Századvég, which has received a government order of HUF 4 billion since 2010, which has now won a HUF 1.4 billion public procurement, and as it turns out, the government liaison had previously worked at Századvég. This is the Századvég, which spends HUF 10 million a day to formulate advice that is the responsibility of government officials. And this is the Századvég, which his former research director, Professor Tamás Mellár of Pécs, called a money launderer in an interview, as he claims that the Prime Minister's advisors are taking up money without any meaningful work for the Ministry's orders. Dear Minister, According to a statement from the United States, the statements of the press regarding the banning scandal, we believe that they do not lack all the grounds, and that those persons who are linked to the Századvég did not refute these allegations. In the present situation, I ask you if there is any basis for the involvement of persons linked to the century's end in connection with the banning scandal. Is there a basis for the money laundering charge? Can the Századvég properly represent Hungarian interests in the United States, which, according to uncontested press reports, was banned from the United States for corruption acts? Please, Minister, clarify with the Századvég and clarify with Hungarian voters what contractual partners these assumptions are related to. Do you know what groups of companies the government pays billions of dollars to? When is the government going to publish the studies and concepts ordered from the end of the century to see if there was any real work going on, or is the century's end only paying place for prime ministers' advisors? I'm asking you, Minister, how long are you covering for the century's end? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-11-17-27	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, My fellow Members and, in particular, my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, I would like to take this opportunity to inform the Parliament, on behalf of the government, of the type of expert work the government has used in recent years, which can be linked to the question asked. Public opinion research HUF 2 billion 436 million, strategic and policy study tasks HUF 10 billion 276 million, communication consulting HUF 4 billion 153 million; nearly HUF 17 billion. [[14.20]] However, recently, it was not after 2010 but before 2010, because the above-mentioned policy activities and the amounts attached to them were paid by your dear government between 2006 and 2010 for what you are now calling for in the Századvég, my dear fellow Member. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] So between 2006 and 2010, similar types of advisory activities were carried out, mainly foreign companies in Hungary to the Gyurcsány, Bajnai government, and therefore the then government paid HUF 17 billion. These companies, these predominantly foreign companies? I think there might be an American company among them? without competition, the tenders and tenders of the Bajnai and Gyurcsány governments were won, there was no competition. In fact, the advice took place on the basis of a specific selection system. In comparison, after 2010, the Századvég Group was entrusted with public opinion polls, strategic and policy study tasks and communication advice in an open public procurement procedure. A total of HUF 3.9 billion was paid for these activities between 2010-14. For HUF 3.9 billion, the Századvég group put 29,500 pages on the table of the Hungarian government ministries as a background study and preliminary government preparation material; and around the same background calculations, analyses and comparative studies were carried out in a total of 20,000 pages. At the moment, there are several civil litigation proceedings in which civil actions are aimed and concern the government's publication of these preparatory, decision-supporting actions and studies. I would like to point out that the next first instance procedure will end on 20 November here in Budapest. We await the verdict of the court. Have we already signed three studies for the court? About 500 pages? to demonstrate that these are truly pre-decision data. With regard to the company, I would like to note that according to the credible information available, there is no legal obstacle to cooperation with the company, so there is no legal obstacle for the Hungarian government to cooperate with the Századvég and the experts of the Századvég. So the government's consulting firm was commissioned for HUF 4 billion against 17 billion; there is no legal reason to exclude them from their advisory work; otherwise, the results of their work, since in 2014 we won the elections and received two thirds of the election. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] The result of your work and the spending of the HUF 17 billion was that the country was bankrupt between 2006 and 2010. [[Moore in the benches of MSZP.]] That's the difference between the end of the century and your advisors. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? Interview from Jobbik's benches: Be modest!]] As far as your political comment is concerned, I would only respond with one sentence, as the government considers this to be a closed matter: the Hungarian government does not provide any Hungarian citizens to any foreign power until the foreign power can provide concrete evidence of the accusations and information raised. Ildikó Vida went to the U.S. embassy, and as a disgrace, no shame in the United States of America. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] could not provide credible information on the operation of the NAV. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties. ? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-17-28	I ask Congressman Bertalan Tóth if he will accept the ministerial answer.
u2014-11-17-29	Dear Minister, I don't understand what you're saying. I'd like to ask for an interpreter.
u2014-11-17-30	I ask the congressman if he will accept the ministerial answer. [[It's a lot of noise. ? Dr. Bertalan Tóth: No.]] Then you'll accept it. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: No!]] He won't take it. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take the minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 115 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstention, the Parliament accepted the ministerial reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How long do we have to wait on the side of the road? It's an address. On behalf of the Minister for Justice László Trócsányi, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, the interpellation will be answered by Minister of State Répássy Róbert. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2014-11-17-31	Mr President, Dear House, While more and more people are gathering on the street, foreign exchange loans have been damaged, whose situation has far from been fully settled, the government's package, called bank accountability, essentially means that it will return 6-8 percent of the burden, while the repayments have increased by 90-100 percent on average for those affected. At the same time, the government did not know, did not want to say anything about the difference between the two, and now a new Secretary of State is giving an answer compared to what has already been done. I hope he will have something to say about how the 6-8 percent relief meets the fact that the payments have increased by 90-100 percent on average. Where's the difference? Who swallowed this difference, and if it's the government's settlement package that's in front of us, does that mean? Because, in my opinion, that's what it means? So that the current government can legalize this part of the robbery? He leaves unwarranted money with banks that he doesn't want to account for, but he made a back-up deal with them, he made a pact with them, and the result is what lies ahead. Can you see their so-called accountability? where people have often said that they are regrouping a thousand billion-dollar item with people? it only affects a very small part of the goods taken away by orvul. But I also have to say that if you, at Jobbik's first request in 2010, let the so-called foreign exchange loans be HUFed at the rate at the time of admission, the injured would have been more than 1000 billion below, the exchange rate would have been so much more favourable. So what you seem to be giving is not even worth anything compared to what you did in 2010 in a fair and immediate manner, compared to the fact that you have drawn this problem and your solution as a strudel. Now you're saying that anyone who claims to owe 8 million statistically will only owe 7 or 6. But we are talking about a lot of people who have already paid off their debts, who have already paid back several times to the financial institutions to which you are now seeking to redeem the money you have taken. What they're trying to say is that he's legal and he's staying with them. They say this despite the fact that, in 2010, Viktor Orbán himself said that, yes, the banks deceived people. Despite saying that even on June 30, it was said that these so-called loans could be HUFed at a reduced rate; and despite the fact that with an impertinent double standard, the government of the rich allowed the better to be repaid at HUF 180, and for those with a heavier fates it cuts a price above HUF 250! That's an impertinent double standard. Not only does it show social insensitivity, but it can now be said that you do not want to play the part that in Hungary people with a difficult fate are measured by any level playing field compared to others. So the question is: is this the settlement of the government, or is the resolution of the solution waiting for those who have left you on the side of the road? 'Cause if he's waiting for them, we're gonna put them on the street. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. I remind the congressman of the house rules, and I am not talking about the bullying, but what he has just said is perfectly appropriate to the genre of the immediate question, because he has brought fresh data and fresh thoughts, and it is quite different from what he has written here. But the point remains. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State to answer the question of interpellation after all. But I do ask the congressman not to put me in such an awkward position at any other time. Thank you very much. Here.
u2014-11-17-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much, on behalf of the Government, for having voted in favour of the legislative proposals put forward by the Government to the Parliament in order to help and facilitate the situation of foreign exchange creditors. He remembers that the Parliament has dealt with the facilitation of the situation of foreign exchange lenders on several occasions in the period 2010-2014. The case of a lump sum final repayment, which I feel has been approached by the Member from a different point of view, the case of a lump sum final repayment has also affected many families, hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people have been able to make use of this possibility. The National Assembly also introduced the measure of the exchange rate barrier, and the National Assembly also made progress in this exchange rate barrier. Just to give you an example: is it possible that the difference in the collection account as a result of the price barrier measure is now being accounted for by banks? Is that a certain HUF 1000 billion repayment obligation? it will cease and eliminate the amounts in this account. [[14.30]] It is therefore possible that those who entered the exchange rate barrier did not have to suffer the burden of foreign exchange rate changes in the meantime. You were here at the National Assembly when we decided on the asset manager, and you heard that thousands of families were helped by the state asset manager. Now, in this new cycle, we also participated in the work of the Parliament starting with 2014, when we created the laws on banks' repayment obligations, in particular the decision to implement the Curia's legal unit decision, in which the Parliament decided to declare the unfair terms of the contract invalid. So I can back you up on that. He said the banks fooled people, really fooled them, shorted the currency and forint loans by nearly HUF 1000 billion. The first foreign currency-credit law adopted by Parliament in June was about declaring these unfair terms invalid. After that, we passed laws on the accountability of the banks. In this, the banks are accounted for by partially reducing their capital debt to those affected by the consumer loan, and in part by those who have already repaid their credit, they receive a significant amount back from the banks. This is about HUF 1000 billion, not a small amount that banks give back to families, thus making the burden of families easier. After all these lighter provisions, the forinting or conversion took place, which means that all the results that we achieved together in the Parliament can be validated by the families who owe them and secured themselves against the exchange rate risk in the long term. And the Fair Banking Act, which is also on the Parliament's table, will improve the situation of debtors in future lending, contains a number of consumer protection rules. I therefore believe that the government has done a great deal, has done everything the legal framework has allowed, has taken all the steps that have already achieved very significant facilitations for foreign exchange creditors. I ask you not to ignore these results, nor to sweep them off with a single gesture of hand, since we voted on them largely jointly in the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-17-34	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-11-17-35	Mr President, Dear House, I appreciate the Secretary of State's efforts. Try to save the unsaveable, even by presenting a school example of a detour response. I don't want to hurt you for this, and you shouldn't even convince me in the first place, but, for example, that Lajos Kósa, who said very hard, firmly and respectedly that it would be a fraud, that it would put credit victims in an impossible position if these so-called loans were forinted at a rate close to market or market rates. So there's one of you who sees this, discuss it among yourselves, trying to channel communication into at least one side. This hasn't been very successful in the last few weeks, but it's not my problem, it's the hundreds of thousands of victims behind us. Your voters are among them. It proves your social insensitivity that you have no idea of anyone who's already lost their home, for whom Social Services may have torn the family apart. Therefore, we must say: we will meet on the street, yes, and the victims will judge the previous governments who let them multiply. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This amazing loan portfolio, expanding the situation, and above all of you. [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] , who have been procrastination for the fifth year...
u2014-11-17-36	Thank you very much. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel:...the comprehensive solution. ? A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] Will you take it or not? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian says no.]] So the congressman doesn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to 39, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Why does the government want to destroy state nature protection? It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2014-11-17-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Given your presidential rigour, I have to ask permission to summarize the question after reading it would be longer than three minutes. I'm asking you to understand this. Overall, I have summarised the issue with regard to the eradication and destruction of the nature reserve system, as this problem has been addressed in three areas. This is the legislative background, the institutional background and the right to dispose of property management areas. A little over a week ago, the Secretary of State was kind enough to give an account at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development of what is the plan for nature conservation. In this report, the most worrying sign appeared to be that the NFA wanted to lay hands on the land in the management of national park assets, and the government would now really play the family silver into a group of interests. In order to come back and sum up the last paragraph, we do not understand what green authorities are looking for in government offices, why bureaucracy without conservation expertise will govern national parks, we do not know what national park protected lands are looking for in the state land programme. According to the Nature Conservation Act, the national park has not significantly changed its characteristic natural characteristics, a larger area whose primary purpose is to protect the natural plant and fauna, geologic, hydrological, landscape and cultural historical values of particular importance. While it is the task of the State Secretary for the State Land Programme to provide the family farms with a public lease, strengthening small businesses and increasing the middle class of agriculture. In our opinion and view, these two objectives have very little in common, we see very little experience in practice. Rather, the examples so far show that the latter is contrary to the former. We therefore have to ask whether the government is actually taking the step of pulling the land out of the national parks, really wanting to transfer it to the National Fund of Earth, and whether this will indeed be the victim of the free robbery we have seen before, or if there is a chance that it will be different. Secretary of State, I am very happy to accept your reply. I ask you to answer that you assure us that none of the land in the national park will be transferred to the NFA and will not be removed from the management of national parks. In this response, I am pleased to accept your reply. Thank you.
u2014-11-17-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2014-11-17-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that in Hungary all state-owned land, i.e. land that is a protected natural area, is also owned by the National Land Fund Management Organisation. For this reason, it is conceptually impossible to place certain lands in NFA, since all state land is already there. The NFA, as a shareholder body, decides on the use of state land. Part of protected natural areas are transferred to national park management property management, which is otherwise bound by several laws. You're using the rest of them. On this basis, it is difficult to understand why the Member questions the government's HUF 700 million source of land purchase for national park directorates, which serves to carry out its statutory land purchase tasks. The congressman suggests that the national park directorates themselves do not lease land and that the lease is already harmful. For example, grazing is an important element of the nature conservation management activity and about half of the land managed by the National Park Board, so about 150 thousand hectares are used. As in answering a number of written questions, the portfolio drew your attention to the fact that the NFA can use protected natural areas and Natura 2000 areas under the current legal regulations only if the competent national park management gives prior specific conservation standards. In the case of land tenants, both the NFA and the National Park Board are entitled and obliged to verify compliance with these obligations. [[14.40]] Contrary to your claim, the use of state-owned protected areas, the lease of which is based on almost identical rules by national park directorates and NFA. Thus, there is a prominent role for livestock farmers, who, in line with the government's programme, are expected to be able to participate in an increasing number of professional management of state-owned protected natural areas. I cannot interpret your comment on the reduction of the government's weight in green matters, and you assume that if a State Secretary's activities cover more than one area, then that can only happen at the expense of each other. His fears in this regard are fundamentally refuted, among other things, by the fact that, from this cycle onwards, the area of the State Secretariat for Environmental Affairs has even expanded, as in the new government structure, we have the genetic conservation and biodiversity previously covered by another State Secretary. I note here that the Ministry does not plan to revise the Nature Conservation Act, to merge it with other laws. I will definitely put an end to the concern expressed by the Member about the future of the nature guard service, and the nature guard service will carry out its task with unchanged powers and responsibilities. No decision has yet been taken on the integration of green authorities or national park directorates into the government office. As you are aware, the Government has decided to set up the State Reform Committee, and this committee is examining the possibility of integrating regional government administrations outside the government's organisation system. Finally, I would like to point out that national park directorates have long since performed official duties, managed under their core activities, engaged in agriculture, animal husbandry and tourism management. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply within a one-minute time frame.
u2014-11-17-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll tell you why I can't accept it. First of all, on the question of interpellation, I did not mention the exercise of ownership, and from the beginning we are talking about asset management, what is going on in the management of assets in national parks, so this is part of the misrepresentation. The fact that national parks are renting themselves, and in both cases, in the case of the NFA and in the case of the national park, animal farming is preferred, I do not have to tell the Secretary of State that it is probably not as good for protected grasslands as sheep farming, which is preferred in the NFA Land Programme. And it doesn't matter what the point is, so what kind of structure all applicants get points in, isn't it, it's a crucial option? And the fact that you consider that you have increased your powers as Secretary of State for the Environment, I have to ask you what powers we are talking about, because if we compare the budget budget that the environmental sector received before 2010 with the current one, then we have to see that we have half as much money to manage national parks and the institutional system. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-17-42	Do you accept the answer? [[Sallai R. Benedek: No, I started by not accepting it.]] He won't take it, okay? Then I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes to 35, with no abstention. Dear Parliament, László Vigh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. The system of fair banks has come to fruition. How will people's vulnerability to banks be reduced in the future? It's an address. Mr László Vigh has the floor.
u2014-11-17-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise.]] Mr President, Dear House, The Fidesz-KDNP fraction association [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Since 2010 he has been working on issues related to foreign exchange lending...
u2014-11-17-44	Congressman, I'm gonna need a moment of your time. I will wait until our fellow Members sit down or go outside or speak in a quieter manner. Thank you very much. Go on, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-45	The Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association has been working since 2010 to find a definitive solution to issues related to foreign exchange lending and to lead these loans out of the market. In the framework of the home security programme, more than 500 thousand foreign exchange loans have provided assistance in some form. The decision of the Curia on 16 June 2014 is a turning point in the history of foreign exchange lending in Hungary. The Supreme Court has never stated in Hungary that banks have acted unfairly against foreign exchange creditors and have abused their dominant position. On 4 July, the Parliament adopted the first law aimed at helping foreign exchange creditors by providing financial institutions with the task of eliminating unfair clauses from the general terms and conditions they apply. Creditors should reimburse their clients of unfairly liquidated items on the basis of the Curia's legal unit decision of 16 June. As a result, the burden on foreign exchange lenders is expected to decrease by 25 percent. All this is a great achievement. However, one last task remains: Parliament must adopt a bill laying the foundations for a fair banking system. In the future, the bank should not be able to raise interest at any time without any funds. The bank will be obliged to provide information to its client during the credit agreement, from which it can assess whether the loan offered to it meets its needs and financial performance. In the case of fixed-rate loans, the bank cannot change the interest rate. And in the case of loans with reference interest rates, the level of the reference interest rate not requiring a change in the contract may vary. The change in interest rates and the change in interest rates and the reference rate cannot be changed by the bank in the future without the approval of the Hungarian National Bank. In the future, the consumer will have the right to terminate his credit contract free of charge and in exchange if, after the interest period has expired, the interest rate level of the loan taken has changed adversely for him. Financial institutions shall inform the client of the expected interest rate 90 days before the interest period expires, and the client shall then have 30 days to notify its intention to terminate. Dear House, We are no longer far from removing all obstacles to the permanent withdrawal of foreign exchange loans. In 2014, the Hungarian economy was able to produce more than 3 percent growth in addition to the weak credit activity of banks. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We trust that once foreign exchange loans are released, banks will spend all their energy on lending to the economy. In the light of the above, I ask the Secretary of State how people's vulnerability to banks will be reduced in the future. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. House rules only give you three minutes of time. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, in a four-minute time frame.
u2014-11-17-47	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The next step in resolving situations relating to foreign exchange loans is a bill aimed at creating a fair banking system, which aims to strike a balance between the bank and the consumer, thereby eliminating the vulnerability of people to banks. Consumer loans are a separate group of loans with many features. One of the most important of these is that the consumer is economically and legally vulnerable to the credit provider. The consumer is the weaker party, who is much less informed about the real content of the credit transaction than the creditor. However, the fact that the consumer, the weaker party, must also be assisted by legislative intervention against the stronger party, the creditor, has become clear only on the basis of subsequent creditor practice. The European Union already regulated consumer credit contracts in a directive in 1987. This directive was replaced by a 2008 directive, which was transposed into Hungarian law by the Hungarian legislation on credit to consumers. On the basis of Hungarian and European law on consumer credit, the government and Parliament have taken measures to better protect the debtors of consumer credit contracts. Another step in this process could be the Fair Bank Act. Economic data support the size of this group of consumers, the legislative steps required to protect them, and according to the data of the Hungarian National Bank, the volume of consumer loans reached the highest level so far on 30 June 2010. This value has decreased steadily over the past four years, but the volume of consumer loans on 30 June 2014 is still above HUF 6802 billion. [[14.50]] Honourable Congressman, The bill aims to reduce consumer vulnerability through the following tools. It sets out new, fair, transparent rules for the unilateral amendment of consumer credit agreements, details and makes the creditor's obligation to provide information prior to the conclusion of the contract more effective. The main purpose of these rules is to enable the consumer to make an informed decision on borrowing and the risks involved. It provides the consumer with a free right of termination after the end of the interest period. The aim is to facilitate bank switching and competition between banks. The amount of late payment interest is maximized by the bill. The obligation to provide information to the creditor prior to the conclusion of the contract shall be extended to the consumer guarantor and the guarantor. This is intended to enable these consumers to make an informed decision on the granting of the security. The fact that the creditor is obliged to make the model text of credit contracts available on his website also facilitates informed decision-making by the consumer. It encourages Hungarian banks to develop a business regulation in order to ensure that banks provide loans under uniform contractual conditions, which facilitates the consumer's review of these credit products and makes the contractual terms more transparent. As a result, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this in the general debate on the bill, with the objectives I have just said and the bill itself in mind, and on this basis I would also ask the Member to accept my reply. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-17-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Before I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, I will follow him, because he has not just exceeded the time frame. Mr Lajos Szűcs warned me that I had stopped the Member because of the parliamentary noise. I'm sorry I told you. I now give you the floor to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2014-11-17-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think there will be a new period of banking, as the Secretary of State said, the period of unilateral amendments is over, the small-letter era is over. So far, customers have entered a bank with fear, since they have not always been able to bring an economist, they have not always been able to bring a lawyer with them. Now, with regard to the Fair Banking Act, which we are adopting, it will be possible to say that you can boldly go to a bank and receive a contract, a contract that guarantees them that there will not be a period between 2002 and 2010. Thank you very much for your reply, I respectfully accept it. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-17-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Is this a joke or a serious one? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2014-11-17-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Actually, my first question is who's controlling your wallet, because the other day your minister said it wouldn't be mandatory to forint foreign currency loans, and within a few hours, the government spokesperson disproved it, and it looks like he had the last word. But in terms of foreign exchange credential problems, they were not the first to lie about this detail. Earlier, the voters were promised not so long ago that foreign exchange loans would be HUFed at a reduced rate. Well, there's no room for subtlety in this case. A few days ago, you sneaked in on that? Contrary to previous promises? foreign currency loans are intended to be HUFed at the market rate. This is roughly HUF 309 for euro loans and HUF 256 for Swiss franc loans. Mr. Secretary, I can ask you correctly that this is a joke or a serious one. 'Cause it'd be a joke. You have already only helped the wealthy, when they made it possible for those who had money to exchange foreign currency loans at the rate of HUF 180. The others, however, were left alone, and even by weakening the rate of the forint, they put new burdens on their necks. I would just like to remind you, Mr Secretary of State, that in April 2010 a Swiss franc had to be paid 185 HUF. The Swiss franc is currently 71 forints more expensive, and you want to convert it at this market rate. The National Bank of Hungary? not only in the words of opposition representatives? According to his statistics, an average monthly instalment has increased by 70 percent since April 2010, since your governance, and most of this was due to the evolution of the exchange rate differential. If you really wanted to help people, then foreign exchange loans would be HUFed at the rate before the 2010 government change. We need not only fair banks, but fair governance, because 70 percent of families with foreign exchange credits are in a hopeless and vulnerable situation. So I respectfully ask Mr. Secretary of State why the government is making people pay the price of bad governance. I look forward to your reply.
u2014-11-17-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-11-17-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The title of your interpellation is....is this a joke or a serious one? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, What I can tell you is that it was a serious matter during your governance, between 2004 and 2008, when 1 million 200 thousand foreign exchange credit contracts were concluded by the Hungarian people, thanks to you. [[Intercoms and applause from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] It wasn't a joke, if you didn't take it too seriously that people were being handed over, you didn't tell them what exchange rate risk this had, and by seducing low interest rates, hundreds of thousands of families were later taken to the brink of bankruptcy. It is very interesting that after the 2002 government change, you have abolished the discount rate forint loans and encouraged people instead to take on foreign exchange loans. Interestingly, then, they didn't stick to the forint. Now, in your speech, you are asking the government for cheap forints. If I were you, I think that this government should be more responsible and restrained about what it has done about foreign exchange lenders, what it has done to reduce Hungary's foreign exchange exposure so that it will essentially disappear. Honourable Congressman, What I can tell you is that the current government, unlike yours, takes decisions on foreign exchange creditors fairly, legally and in the long-term interest of Hungary and presents the legislative proposals to Parliament. Fairly, because we have to take into account that many hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have not taken on foreign exchange loans to dissuade you or encourage you, but have trusted the forint, and even if they had high interest rates, they have taken out loans in HUF, and now they are paying back in HUF. It's not possible for those FX crooks you've been deceiving to be better off right now. So the expectation of righteousness must be taken into account. But we also have to consider legality. It is not possible to give Hungary, many hundreds of thousands of families, people, a solution that anyone later sues them or is urged to sue them. That is why it is very important to find a solution that is legal. It took time, and that required the decision of the Curia. But the Curia's decision also stated that unfortunately the risk of exchange rate has to be borne by the customers, while the costs of unfair proceedings have to be borne by the banks, which is why the banks will pay more than HUF 1100 billion when they account for each client. The long-term interests of Hungary must also be taken into account, the question of maintaining financing and financial balance, and the question of Hungary's credibility when making decisions on this issue. [[15.00]] So that's how a series of big decisions come together, and that's how Parliament almost makes that decision? If you're going to accept the two laws before us? that, in the end, a fair, legitimate decision will be made with the country's interests in mind, thus eliminating the foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Burány if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-17-55	Mr. President. That answer cannot be accepted. Well, Mr. Secretary of State was talking about something quite different than the problems I was pushing. I don't know if Mr Secretary of State knows what this forinting at the market rate means. A whole country is counting, as I have received several signals from owners in Kőbánya and Kispest; the price of a 6-7 million panel apartment with this HUF at the market rate will rise to 11 million. This is what forinting at the market rate means. [[István Szilárd Németh: Stop talking nonsense!]] They're counting it, aren't they, Mr. Secretary? You know that's how it is. I would like to remind you once again: on this forint, foreign exchange credentials lose; you win and the Hungarian National Bank wins, the central bank led by György Matolcsy, which will have more than HUF 100 billion available to finance educational programmes. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Instead of giving this money back to the Feds. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-17-56	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: "Does it matter to the government the livelihood of hundreds of mining families? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2014-11-17-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You stated that by 31 December, the Lion coal mine, which is Hungary's last underground coal mine, will be permanently closed. In this regard, Jobbik has been saying for years that if the government is serious about the energy strategy adopted by Parliament, which also focuses on renewable energy and coal, the mine that still has large untapped coal reserves should not be closed. It is neither an incidental nor a very important aspect that, as a result of the closure, the livelihood of some 300 families will cease from January, which will obviously lead to social problems in the Russian region. Of course, we know government communication, promises about re-training and further employment, but unfortunately, based on past experience, we can no longer really believe in it. There is also a strange duality between the government's communication and its actions, while retraining the lányi wells to another profession, while in Hungary there were three locations where the oar training started. Today, it is only in the Lion coal mine, until you close it. The question arises as to where they will then train underground coal miners and miners. Are they setting up a mine at a cost of billions of dollars? I believe that this would be a very good business for someone, but we ask you to steward yourselves with taxpayers' money. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The mine in Markushegy has significant coal reserves, which we can't prove better than that more than a month before the closure, a new front was opened in the days, and the miners working there began to unravel a new front. Meanwhile, the Hungarian Electricity Company has declared that the Liony power plant will continue to operate with imported coal for many years. This is supposed to save up to a billion forints a year. So, to sum up, it is a huge humbug that the European Union is forcing us to close the mine in order to reduce CO2 emissions. Maybe it's to create a market for imported coal. It also proves my claim that a whole range of coal power plants will be opened in Germany at the same time as nuclear power is withdrawn, which is the European Union's supposed leader in renewable energy. Jobbik calls on the government not to close the Lion coal mine until the coal needed to supply the power plant can be produced here and imported coal. Take into account the interests of hundreds of mining families working there, their families and their livelihoods. For this purpose, as so far, Jobbik will continue to go to the end within the framework of the law. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-58	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary János Fónagy responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-17-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The efficiency of the power plant of the Vértes plant in Liony is the second lowest of the large power plants in the country, only 26 percent. Its operation is therefore uneconomic. The company was in bankruptcy in 2010. This step prevented the immediate closure of the mine in Márkushegy, thus ensuring the livelihood of the miners working here further compared to previous plans, allowing for a sound vision of the region. Despite bankruptcy, the company has been able to maintain its management in recent years only with the help of electricity consumers, the so-called coal penny. The introduction of coal pennies was made possible by a decision of the European Council on State aid to facilitate the closure of uncompetitive coal mines. The aid is intended to cover part of the losses incurred during the operation of the mine and partly to alleviate social and regional problems associated with closure. On 23 January 2013, the European Commission approved Hungary's aid application, according to which the company will be able to pay HUF 42,3 billion at the current price during the entire support period until 2018. It is planned that the Vértes Power Plant will pay more than HUF 10 billion for employee-related tasks, of which one billion forints directly facilitate the repositioning of employees. This HUF 1 billion specifically covers the re-training tasks that help workers re-locate. The Lion power plant provides the heating of about 5,000 apartments and the domestic hot water supply of 3400 homes. The company is working on the development of sustainable and economical district heat production in the long term, along with the planned closure of the mine, preparing and authorising the construction of a new heating plant that triggers coal-based production. Until the new heating plant is completed, the Liony power plant will continue to operate in order to ensure district heating in the region. During this transitional period, was it partly extracted from the Markushegy mine earlier? So I repeat: earlier or pre-produced from the Markushegy mine? , partly with other domestic coal production, it intends to provide the undisturbed service. Therefore, imports are not planned. Thank you for your attention, and please accept my reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-17-61	Secretary of State, I recommend that you look carefully at Ozd, where Jobbik beat the Fidesz as an ice on the border, as quoted in News TV Target. Oz was once a thriving mining town. I suggest you pay attention to Oz's example. We will not allow the Russian girl to go through the path that Oz has had to go through for the last 20 years, when mining ceases, the industry will cease and people will be crippled! We want it, and I could have accepted the only answer if you had told me that the mine would continue to operate. The mine does have economically decapitable and extractable carbon reserves, a new front has just begun in the vicinity of the mine, and it is for those miners who are often sent off a few months before their pension now and put on the street, they need a livelihood, and Hungary needs reasonably used coal and reasonably mined coal. Therefore, I cannot accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes to 31, with three abstentions. [[15.10]] Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Will the new regulation on baby bonds encourage parents to look after the future of their child? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-63	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Support for children and families is particularly important for the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance. In addition to the fact that the government has taken a number of family-friendly measures in recent years, it has paid particular attention to caring for the future of children, thus encouraging and financially supporting parents to take care of the future of their children from birth. Since January 2006, all children of Hungarian nationality residing in the territory of the Republic of Hungary have been entitled to initial life support. This currently represents a state grant of HUF 42 500 for all newborns, which is credited to the children by the State in the Treasury deposit account. In addition, since 1 December 2013, parents have had the opportunity to purchase so-called baby bond, which requires the opening of a Start Securities Account at Treasury. Baby bond is 1 HUF, with variable interest rate and 19 years of maturity, issued annually by the Hungarian State. For children with a Start securities account, a payment of 10 per cent of the deposit to their account in the reference year, but up to a maximum of HUF 6 thousand, will be credited. For children who are entitled to regular child protection benefits or are educated, the state aid is 20 percent, up to a maximum of 12 thousand forints. Together with start-up support, own savings, public support and interest on baby bonds, the saved savings can be taken up by the child aged 18 and used for statutory purposes, including studies, housing, starting-ups and children. Dear Secretary of State, You have heard earlier that the vast majority of parents did not make use of the opening of the Start account, the existence of a deposit account held by the Treasury has often been forgotten. Can you see from the data of the Hungarian Treasury that the rules of the baby bond introduced in 2013 effectively encouraged parents to take advantage of the support offered by the state, to open a starting account for their child and thus provide the basis for the future of their child? Dear Secretary of State, I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, it is true that in most of the Member States of the European Union, including our country, there is a demographic challenge to the low willingness to have children and the resulting ageing society. In 2010, the government faced a 10 percent decrease in births. The Fidesz-KDNP government has always been committed to supporting families. Once again, the government took up office after 2002 with measures and decisions that support families in general, thus strengthening the single-key personal income tax system, the family tax relief system, which brought HUF 240 billion to families last year, in next year's tax law, increasing the tax relief of families with two children from 10 thousand to HUF 20 000, introducing ged extra, the possibility of benefits for work, which will continue in the future, the family home creation discount, which will be a new discount from 1 July of next year, from HUF 700 thousand to HUF 1 million to HUF 170 thousand, will be available to families with children for housing construction and expansion of a new state grant. And it is true, as you said, that the government introduced the baby bond institution, which is essentially a savings, a 19-year-old sovereign debt, where the state guarantees extra interest and discounts. This was renewed in December 2013. The Treasury has created some 600 thousand Start deposit accounts, awaiting deposits. The discount is now really more popular, and the deposits have accelerated, and the Hungarian Treasury now has 52,000 securities accounts, and it has 7.9 billion forints on it. We believe that families should be made aware of this possibility, because, as Congressman said, many people do not even know about this possibility, so that this product must be constantly promoted, and thus the founders of the family, the children, should be led to the possibility of extending family support opportunities with such an opportunity. Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to maintaining the baby bond system, and if our financial opportunities, the country's financial opportunities allow, it will provide additional benefits in order to ensure that as many Hungarian families as possible take advantage of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-66	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-17-67	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As the Secretary of State said, the issue of population loss is a very big problem in Hungary today. Today, the answer to a question before the agenda was that the population has been losing weight in Hungary for 33 years. For this reason, I also consider it important that the Hungarian government makes a question of national policy by addressing the family support system with emphasis over the past years, and also in the years to come family policy as a central element, and I stress once again that it is a matter of national policy, because this is how we can stop the population from losing. My interpellation is also about us here in Parliament together, no matter which side of the horseshoe we are on, and we are interested in bringing this opportunity to the attention of families, so that they can help their children, after their 19th year, with the opportunity to start their lives properly. Thank you very much. I accept your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Dear Parliament, It's 3:18 p.m., and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Luxusafa on the title of the menu. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2014-11-17-69	Mr. Prime Minister, This is not our first conversation on VAT, but I think it's even more serious now than it was a year ago when we first tried to clarify that. Now, 27 percent VAT increases to 33 percent with a rather interesting trick, at least more than half of the food turnover, about 2,000 billion in food traffic. Does this mean that the companies concerned will pay nearly 100 billion extra taxes to the budget, regardless? As many members of the government have said? That this does not appear anywhere in the food safety system, as this is justified by the fact that this amount will be collected as a food safety oversight fee. If the aim is to destroy the so-called foreign competition for the benefit of a certain domestic company, then this may succeed, because this bill has another pass: if an undertaking in this circle is losing money for two years, it must stop its activities. If we were to extend this to something else, Prime Minister, it would mean that there would be no more car manufacturing in Hungary, because for years all of our car manufacturers have been loss-making. [[15.20]] I don't think it's the right thing to do. I think that corruption, which has now become so-called government-level, should lead to a reduction in taxes on food turnover, especially VAT. After all, we can see that this is the area where there is clearly a huge level of fraud, and unfortunately, the new tender and the 8 billion supervisory system will not solve the problem, for which new problems arise. I mean, you've had an open letter written about it, and it looks like it's got a state-wide patent stolen. We would very much like to see these issues cleared up quickly and if they could change the philosophy that you have often talked about to me and in other environments, and try to contain this corruption opportunity. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But this requires a very intense and very fast VAT reduction. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-11-17-70	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2014-11-17-71	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The prerequisite of dialogue is honesty. The title of your question is no longer true. The VAT rate doesn't change, the congressman made a false statement. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2014-11-17-72	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös.
u2014-11-17-73	I thought, Prime Minister, that you would take this problem more seriously. If a whole circle of food distributors is faced with an increase in a type of turnover tax, it cannot be called a general turnover tax type taxation, whatever they think it is, and whatever government actors say about it. But you, Prime Minister, are lying because this line is HUF 8 billion in the food security system in the budget, 8.9 billion, not 100 billion. When your minister says they're clearly taking this because it's going to be a food security system development, it's an elemental lie. We are going to put in an amendment, because I think that they will accept this tax tomorrow, which I would very much not recommend that it should appear in the system where it was meant to be. But they didn't put it there, they're attacking companies that are now making a strong competition against companies that don't benefit from this tax. I don't think that's fair and fair, Prime Minister.
u2014-11-17-74	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-75	If I understand correctly what my fellow Member has said, thanking you for your immediate question, it is an admission that you are aware that the key to VAT is not rising. Words have a weight, we don't always think about it, but what we say here, what we say here, there are people who take it seriously. So when you say that 33 percent will be the key to VAT, which is an obvious untruth, you deceive the Hungarian people through the Parliament's meeting room. No one wants to lift the key to the food VAT. That's another question you just started talking about. As I understand it, there is also a legislative proposal in place before this House on this subject, so we can negotiate this in substance. All I can say about that is that the government's intentions are clear. Hungary tolerated for years because it was weak to destroy honest retailers, and it tolerated feeding people garbage. We've had enough of this. We do not want honest Hungarian retailers to be destroyed by the greats, and we do not want people to be fed with food-named garbage. To this end, let us establish the rules, all benevolent comments and thank you for your contribution. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2014-11-17-76	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question, "Doesn't he feel like a political windcock after demanding the taxation of luxury swimming pools in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa and in Parliament, and then he made a turn in the government of the rich because of his personal involvement? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Minister Levente Magyar to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-11-17-77	Mr President, Péter Szijjártó personally earned the windcock...
u2014-11-17-78	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-11-17-79	So I'd give it to him...
u2014-11-17-80	I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-11-17-81	...the possibility of personal explanation.
u2014-11-17-82	Thank you for your reply. Therefore, Congressman does not accept the person who is responding. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "If it isn't Fidesz, it's just extortion." This is for Congressman Adam Mirkóczki.
u2014-11-17-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Unfortunately, the campaign of municipal elections was once again about the fact that Fidesz's prominents based the campaign on direct or indirect extortion in the majority of the country, namely that where non-fidesz prominents win, the settlement is so to speak, financially over, and they do not receive adequate subsidies. However, this was not enough in some places, such as Füzesabony, they went further than that, until the explicit blackmail, which I believe and everyone else thinks is Btk.-category. But we managed to get political rivals and opponents removed from the palette regardless of party standing. In many cases, individual parliamentary representatives from different regions have, of course, put a shovel on all of this and added to the situation. We know exactly, and I think we agree that, in addition to all this, the development of a settlement does not depend on the majority composition of the municipality or the mayor, but rather on whether it is suitable for that post or not. But since the vast majority of people throughout Hungary are existentially vulnerable, scared, scared, and, I add, some conclusions can be drawn from the past period that they were right to be scared. A person who works in a local government office is vulnerable for a person who works in an institution maintained by a local government, who is vulnerable or felt that he is vulnerable, and who is a simple public worker would like to keep that small income safe. In light of all this, I am asking you, and now not primarily as Prime Minister of Hungary, but as the first man of Fidesz, whether this style, this policy, in your view, is permissible. They wish to continue this style in the next four-and-a-half-year, nearly five-year municipal cycle, or you say once and for all that this is not acceptable. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-84	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2014-11-17-85	First of all, congratulations to the newly elected mayor of Ozd. It seems that there may be settlements where the opposition can win after all. The claim that anyone has built their campaign on blackmail is rejected on behalf of all parliamentary parties is unacceptable. In Hungary, a lot of people, perhaps thousands of people, took on the ordeal of the campaign, in the colors and independence of different parties. Your claim that everyone is under a hat is quite simply unacceptable, and I must reject it in the name of all honest candidates. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the light of the transparency and accountability requirement, it should be prepared that in the future, for investments with a total cost of EUR 1 million, the aid will be granted to undertakings on the basis of objective criteria. It is also part of the simple and transparent allocation of resources that, in the case of an operational programme for territorial and urban development, dedicated funds, announced in a government decision, are set out to the counties and municipalities with county rights. Take this opportunity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for the pro-government factions.]]
u2014-11-17-86	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-11-17-87	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, The problem is that, in the name of honest politicians, it is indeed legitimate that we reject these accusations, and I agree with that. Unfortunately, in many places they are not honest, and we have faced candidates and candidates for mayor who are not playing with clean instruments. After the elections, you asked the elected representatives, mayors of your own color, to be humbled. This humility was manifested in the fact that where it failed to win, all the results were quickly attacked, and that a number of settlements had to be renewed. In these many settlements, of course, the voters again stressed and rejected this kind of arrogance. There's obviously a reason for that. The problem is that, whether in Gyöngyös or Ozdon or in several other settlements, the Fidesz leaders there have already said in advance that they are really interested in the fact that the worse they are, the better they are, and they are interested in whether they like it or not. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Destroy the entire settlement, so that the opposition does not succeed. I'd like to ask Prime Minister...
u2014-11-17-88	Thank you, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-89	...to talk to these people. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-90	Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. You have the floor. [[15.30]]
u2014-11-17-91	I cannot support the approach of eliminating redress in the case of elections. The election results can still be attacked, the procedures should be conducted, and the case will go to closure. I would also like to remind you that politics is an experiential genre. I understand you're speculating, but let's call in the facts. For example, for the previous four years, the debt transfer: Budapest XIII. district, József Tóth, MSZP: government took over HUF 1 044 240 107; Tiszaújváros, György Bráz, MSZP: HUF 1 billion 324 million; Szeged, László Botka, MSZP: 25 billion HUF 100 million [[Uproar and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Tisavasvári, Fülöp Erik, Jobbik: 693 million HUF [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because it's a fair government for all municipalities. [[Intercoms. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-92	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, "How does the green dossier and the tramps end up under the carpet?" It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, The two major scandals of 2013 - the traff case and the NAV scandal - are now becoming more and more people think that small people in this country can easily hit their ankles, but the big fish cannot, for some reason, get the power out of them. In the Trafik case, we see that in June 2013 the Investigator's Attorney General opened an investigation into personal data abuse; all we could think was that it was obviously because István Horváth was a fellow Member? of whom some have already christened Szekszárd to Croatia? For some reason, he had the applicant's data. Compared to this, he claimed that he had been given their own tender materials by the trams, so he had this information legally. And let's see, the D.A.'s office didn't make it until spring this year to listen to these guys. The question is whether the D.A.'s office was investigating other crimes at all. Silence is striking, Mr. Attorney General, because the prosecution is silent about the nature of the trafikkuty, while the various attacks on the traffik are widely discussed on the website of the High Prosecutor's Office by the investigating authority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, When the NAV scandal exploded, when András Horváth waved that particular green dossier, shortly after the police raided András Horváth; not those who might have benefited from chained VAT fraud. What happened next was that in the spring, you admitted that there was an investigation into serious crimes, and then you promised that on November 13th, which was last week, we would see you more clearly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Do we see any clearer in the traff case? Do we see any clearer in the matter of the NAV scandal? That's what I'd like you to answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The answer to your question is, yes, we can see clearly, but we are not yet at the end of the case. You have rightly pointed out that both of the cases mentioned by you have been under investigation, one since June 2013 and the other since December 2013. In the Trafik case, you mentioned a part-moment, the Szekszárd, but it should be added that there are several part-actions in the investigation conducted by the Central Detective Attorney General's Office. These partial actions also show similarities, but also differences. You mentioned the misuse of personal data. That's why the first investigation started, but I would add that other crimes were suspected. The investigation is ongoing, it's extended, and we'll have to wait until it's closed. But once again, we have a clearer view, and we hope, at the end of the case, that we can tell you whether there has been a crime, if so, why and what it is like, if it has not happened, then we can explain why it has not happened. In the case of the NAV, the so-called green dossier, the investigation is also ongoing, so far as there was already an interrogation of suspects on 4 November; there was also a suspicion of not only an abuse of office but also another crime, but I must add that it is not possible to investigate in public. Is there news of a case being investigated? Aren't you always sure you're lucky? However, informing the public about certain investigative actions would certainly not be a good way, since this would negatively affect the effectiveness of the investigation. By the way, there's an increased oversight of the DA's office here as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-96	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. I give the floor to Congressman Schiffer András in return.
u2014-11-17-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Attorney General, I might as well agree with your last sentences. The only question now is when we can read the report on the issue of the leaks within the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, My question is also whether the EU Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, has allegedly already handed over 34 cases to the Hungarian authorities, and whether there is one that concerns the trade and the various cases related to the NAV scandal. I would also like to know, Mr. Attorney General, what time limit can you give the public on a trade-off at all. In particular, given the question: have the prosecutors specifically specialising in corruption cases been examined in the case of tobacco applications? I also ask: if there has been an seizure in the case of András Horváth, has there been an seizure in the case of István Horváth's computer? Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, I would also like to ask you that, with regard to the winding-up of the Directorate for Priority Affairs, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For example, did the Government receive assistance? [[The president will turn off Dr. András Schiffer's microphone.]] I'm with the Audit Office. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Attorney General is entitled to a rebuttal answer. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-99	Honourable Congressman, He asked so many questions that I am quite certain that I cannot answer this, not because there are no data on this, but because there is no time to do so. So what I can offer you is that I have broadly noted these questions, and I will answer them in writing; all of them can be answered otherwise. There are, of course, some things that affect us, and some things that don't affect us. Let me say that the Central Investigator's Attorney General is one of the depositaries of the fight against corruption, it is no accident that the important, high-profile cases are there. And let me also say that OLAF of course gives us matters, in particular, in order to protect the financial interests of the Union; there are less cases of corruption, but they can also occur, all of which are handled and dealt with. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-100	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General, for your answer. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What does the government do to reduce PM10 concentration? It's an address. Minister Zsolt V. Németh has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person who is responding, or whether she is personally expecting an answer from the Minister.
u2014-11-17-101	I accept, Mr. President.
u2014-11-17-102	Yeah. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2014-11-17-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One of the main causes of respiratory diseases in urban populations was the high concentration of small particulate matter. If the concentration of particles with a diameter of less than 10 microns in the airspace is high, it has a very strong health-damaging effect. The reason for this is that these particles are deposited, accumulated in the lungs, in the airways. In Hungary, the concentration of small hostel dust, i.e. PM10, exceeded the health limit more than once in several cities this year. We know that the concentration of PM10 is greatly influenced by the nature of transport and residential combustion, it is very important to choose fuel, but at the same time one third of the 3.9 million households use solid fuels. The Ministry of Agriculture has started these days, starting its campaign to achieve the right heating, and this is part of the programme that was adopted for 20 years in 2011 and resulting in a decrease of 10-15 percent in the concentration of particulate matter with a diameter of less than 10 microns. At the same time, only HUF 54 million is included in the 2015 budget bill on the basis of expenditure to reduce the concentration of small hostel dust, PM10. [[15.40]] I ask the Secretary of State what the government is doing to reduce the concentration of PM10, what the aforementioned HUF 54 million will be spent on, and if the budget bill contains any related measures to reduce PM10 concentration. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-104	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-17-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In 2011, the government established an inter-sectoral action programme for the reduction of PM10 from EU and domestic sources for 20 years. The implementation of the programme with a total cost of about HUF 700 billion falls within the competence of several wallets. To this end, the Ministry of Agriculture operates an inter-ministerial committee involving the Ministry of National Development, the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Human Resources. For the implementation of the General Government Action Programme, the HUF 54 million mentioned in the chapter appropriation is used only to carry out the tasks of our portfolio under its first responsibility. If you allow me, I will mention some of the projects already underway financed by the programme of measures: modelling of cross-border air pollution, for example, to determine the extent to which neighbouring countries contribute to the level of domestic pollution. The bus exchange programme or the implementation of vehicle modernisation tasks also includes the reduction of dust load for agricultural and mining activities; the campaign to change our behaviour in public gardens, heating and transport. In the care of the NFM, the warm home program has been released, which includes a heating-modernization, window replacement and household machine change program. So, in view of all of this, I can strongly say that we hope that I can remove all remaining doubts about ensuring healthy, clean air and reducing PM10 pollution by the government [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He's committed to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-106	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the congresswoman. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I consider all the measures aimed at reducing the concentration of PM10 to be very important, and the government's commitment to 20 years is HUF 700 billion. As Mr Secretary of State has said, there is a need not only to take one measure, but also to coordinate a number of measures in the areas of transport, heating modernisation, mining and agriculture. This is of great importance, from an environmental point of view and from a health conservation point of view, because health is one of our most important treasures and we must, above all, start the prevention of diseases; that we can reduce and eliminate the harmful effects that are causing health loss and damage. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-108	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have the right to a rejoinder, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-109	These days, we'll start with the heat smartly! A campaign that uses flyers, posters and internet surfaces to highlight the correct heating modes. This is how we recommend to those using solid fuel to prefer wood, but the element of this campaign is at least as important as not to fire. We want to make it clear that if someone is burning clothes or having a furniture sheet, it is not just the lawnmower after lunch on Sunday and other similar, annoying activities, not just that these people are annoying us, but that they are poisoning us. For example, when PVC is burned, the compound that phosgene was used as a fighting gas in the First World War comes into the air. So let's do everything together for the health of our environment [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Let's do everything together to improve air quality. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-110	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Did he really want to do this? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, this summer you have ruffled domestic and international public opinion by announcing that you want to build an illiberal democracy. This language is indeed unusual from you and could have used it a little more carefully; as Jenő Kaltenbach pointed out in a publicistry, if the English word illiberal was inserted into the Hungarian dictionary, it would say the following words: stingy, petty, serbile, limited, bigoted, slavish, ordenaré, uneducated, vulgar, antiliberal. It is unfathomable that from his many hundreds of men's courtship and his voluntary spiritual supporters like the CÖF, none of his colleagues have drawn your attention to this, so it is understandable what is going on in our country today. From the issue of 11 August, however, we learned exactly what illiberal democracy is. It means unqualified, uncontrolled, united power, where the people and their leaders rule unitedly, neither the power of the people nor the leader is divided, limited, controlled. Indeed, Prime Minister, you were legally granted unlimited authority in 2010. But what did you use it for? ? Tell me honestly. Didn't you appoint the president of the NAV the Vida Ildikó, who you knew was one of the leaders of Simicska's corporate empire, considered to be Fidesz's economic background? Maybe you didn't elect the Attorney General's mentor, former Member of the Parliament of Fidesz. "Peter Polt"? Fideszes fellow Members of the SAO president, members of the Constitutional Court? Doesn't Fidesz use the Hungarian Parliament to legislate corruption with your approval? Wasn't it your personal decision to build a tax system, education and health system that resulted in millions of people being crippled and hundreds of thousands emigrated from the country, while fidesz relatives, buddies, and top tens of thousands of people getting richer and above the law? Prime Minister, have you really been preparing for this for the last 20 years? Was that your big vision? [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of Fidesz: You've been saying that for four years. Ildikó Lendvai, come back!]] A feudal, authoritarian, destitute country? Is that what you really wanted? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or you don't control the government anymore. [[The president's ringing again.]] And the Fidesz-KDNP faction? [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-11-17-112	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2014-11-17-113	Dear fellow Member, We can leave language policy reflections to the publicists. If you write an article on the nature of illiberal democracy, I would be happy to write an answer. As to the substance of the matter, the claim that the power of the Prime Minister in Hungary would be unlimited does not correspond to the facts. Hungary has a constitutional order [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Was.]] We have a Fundamental Law, and inferior laws clearly define what the Prime Minister can and cannot do. So far, I have been accused of many things from your benches, which I have considered to be the result of the nature of things, but in no case has anyone ever accused me of crossing the limits of the power of the Prime Minister laid down in any lower or higher legislation. I have no intention of sticking to these constitutional rules, especially with regard to the fact that we have all sworn to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-114	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-11-17-115	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I have some bad news. On the one hand, I wrote such publicity, on the other hand, as a written question... [[Defiance, uproar, interrogation from the benches of the governing parties. ? The president's ringing the bell. ? Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Read, not yell.]] Wait, fellow Members, here comes the punch line. So, on the one hand, I wrote this, and on the other hand, I literally sent it to you in the form of a written question, and you didn't lift a finger, but you assigned Zsolt Semjén, sitting next to you, to something? Is it worth reading, too, by the way? I need you to send me back an invaluable instrument to answer that question. Prime Minister, I understand your answer. You didn't understand my question, and as I see it, you chose the tactic that you didn't answer. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact is, from the outside, the majority of people these days seem to think that the system and its operation you have built is more like Cosa Nostra's. [[Moraj, interrogations from the ruling parties.]] What we see is that you are doing your power not for the people, but for the money and the power that matter to you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. ? Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including: Come back to Ildikó Lendvai!]] Instead of that, we believe...
u2014-11-17-116	Thank you, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-117	I ask for your patience, with all due respect. [[The president's ringing again.]] ? to make this unlimited, level unlimited, legally unlimited power...
u2014-11-17-118	Congressman, your time limit is up. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. ? Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó:...you should use it for the sake of the people. ? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2014-11-17-119	There are many of us who are pleased that you have already expressed your views in writing on this subject; what a pity that you have not noticed. [[Defiance. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] As far as your question is concerned, I can say that, of course, there is no lower limit to rudeness even in the Hungarian Parliament, but I suggest that you consider whether it is appropriate to call a government coalition and a majority of governments that have earned the trust of Hungarian voters on several occasions. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: By amending the law!]] Because the question is not what I want and what I think about constitutionality, honourable Member, is what people think about it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: They will tell you now in the square.]] They told you that in 2010, they told you three times in 2014. I do not think that Hungarian voters would have honoured us with their trust if they had seen all this if they had given you the truth. So let's stick to the voter's judgment. Thank you for your valuable contribution. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-120	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what does it mean to Prime Minister without delay? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2014-11-17-121	Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Last Wednesday, thousands of social workers entered the street, announcing the day of social dissatisfaction instead of the day of social work. I was there myself with my colleagues, who also came here to work in Parliament from this field. I was there because I can totally agree with the fact that social workers are bringing home extremely low salaries in Hungary today. In addition, by doing a sacrifice because they are trying to help the most deprived, the elderly, the unemployed, or even the disabled, I could go on with this area. I was also there because this sector is about to collapse, because due to extremely low salaries, a lot of people are going to go to work in the field of health, because they also make a lot more money there, which is surprising, because it is also a stepchild of the current Hungarian government? the health sector, too? or they are travelling abroad because they cannot make a living at home and can offer them at least five times the wage in Germany or Austria. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to quote three sentences from the 2010 government programme: today, the esteem of workers in the social and child protection and child welfare areas is the weakest, their social perception and income situation are often even lower than those in charge of those in need of care and care. The following sentence: - The government of the past 8 years has treated them step-by-step. And one last sentence:. The extent and quality of the social security of the future depends on them, and the honour of their work must be returned immediately. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Prime Minister, It's been five years. I don't know what it means in your dictionary, but this situation hasn't changed, please answer me when social workers can count on you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-122	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2014-11-17-123	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, 90 percent of what he has to say, but I may agree with 95 percent of it, the description is accurate. Indeed, in 2010, we formed a government with the aim of trying to improve the life situation of those working for the common good, not on the market, but on those employed by the state. You've been sitting here, I think, for the past four years, you've seen the struggles, you've been part of these debates, I think you've seen everything the government's tried to do. It is possible to argue whether this is not enough or not, but that we did not try to do everything that was possible humanly and financially, perhaps no one will dispute it. That is why I would like to remind you that, after the state of the Hungarian economy has evolved from 2010 to this day, as much as we can, only step by step, in terms of employment groups. Something we can be proud of because something's going on? Are we still far from the necessary outcome? That's the pedagogical career system. Where have we taken action and there will be important developments next year, are those uniformed soldiers and police officers? the settlement of his or her career. At the same time, we would also like to start the social workers' careers, perhaps we have already started negotiations on this, and I understand that the first discussions have been held in this regard. I want the people in the social sector to know that the government appreciates their work, considers it valuable, and as soon as the financial opportunities provide it? I don't think that's far, but this could happen next year? The introduction of social workers' careers and the recognition of their work in the social sector can also be felt financially. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-124	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-11-17-125	Mr. Prime Minister, I'm asking you to take a look around the social sector's house or inside the Ministry's office, because it's been a year and a half ago, nothing has happened, and thousands of social workers have gone out on the street for no reason. It's a hell of a catch. Fellow Members! At the moment, social workers have not received a salary increase since 2008, and their wages have now fallen to the 2003 level. Amazing! The next area where they earn relatively little in the different occupations is one and a half times as much as social workers, and I'm not even talking about the fact that the average salary for bankers or communication is four times the average salary for social workers. I ask the Prime Minister that it is true that he did not say anything concrete, but that he should be firm in this matter towards his ministry to really take the steps, because this sector is simply collapsing. So it's not just the fate of the people, although it's the most important thing, it's whether they're going to do their job at all. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If they can do their job. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-126	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-127	Honourable Congressman, What is perhaps to be mentioned here, in the interest of the workers in the sector, is that I remember that this year, too, we managed to manage a sectoral wage supplement, and I understand that the sectoral wage substitute is also included in the next year's budget bill before us. If that's the case [[Tamás Sneider: That's right, but that's not a raise.]] Then the Minister will be kind, nod. [[Michael Varga nodds.]] The Minister of Finance claims that this is true. However, if that is the case, I agree with you that this is not a solution, and I agree with you that this is only firefighting, and I also agree with you that it is indeed necessary to offer a career-like system of appreciation and a future for those working in the sector. Are we on this, all proposals, proposals, comments welcome, and in the year ahead? Do you want me to be specific? In 2015, in agreement with those working in the sector, we will establish a social sector's career system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-128	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, representative of the KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Do the results of the extra introduction of the child show? It's an address. Minister Katalin Veresné Novák has appointed Secretary of State for the response. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Minister for the answer personally. [[Rózsa Hoffmann: Of course I accept.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-17-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question on a more positive subject than the previous one, but I do think it is very necessary for Parliament and the public of the country to be thoroughly informed about this issue here as well. Last year, we created a very important piece of legislation in our family policy, which has become known as the extra name. The essence of the ged extra is that, while previously not being able to work with the child and the child, or only being very limited, the ged extra allows all mothers whose children are one year old to take up a job and continue their original profession. Does the provision apply not only to children born after 1 January 2014? since the scope of the provision is 1 January 2014? but also for those whose children are over a year old. An important element of this provision is that parents are free to choose whether to use this option or not, the procedure had to be suspended for those who wanted to go to work after the child or the child. [[16.00]] The regulation thus provides parents with a real choice, freedom, which is an important element of our family policy. Is it also important that childcare benefits continue to be provided even if another child is born in the family? Was this not the case before, the payment for the older child ceased? and can be used by any parent. In addition to these important facts, I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether they are already visible. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the results of this measure, how many, to what extent they make use of the extra possibilities given to them. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Veresné Novák.
u2014-11-17-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Thank you very much for the congresswoman's question, and it is indeed gratifying that we can talk about the results of population and family policy for the second time here, which is a very important issue that cannot be discussed enough in Parliament. The congresswoman made quite clear on the various measures taken by the child, and I would like to point out a very important element in this: with the ged extra, we have eliminated an unfair situation and we have restored something that was not right before, because if mothers with small children took up eight hours of work, they did not receive the benefits for the child, it was unfair. What is less worth for a mother who raises a child before eight or ten hours of work, after work, and otherwise during work, than for a mother who spends her life giving these years to her family in full, all day and most of her life? In doing so, we have restored this injustice. Your brother and I also remedyed an unjust situation, for while the family had received only benefits for the next child, not for the larger child, it was unfair; we restored it: from now on, families will receive support for every unborn child, even if they are happy to arrive quickly in succession. A third element, which the Member did not mention, is that she is a graduate, which serves the fact that higher education students or higher education graduates who were unable to work so that they did not receive the law before, can now have it, so we have restored an injustice once again. To say the specific figures, which makes me feel that yes, the Gyed extra is successful: 20,000 families have used the benefits granted by the Gyed extra to date alone; nearly ten thousand mothers work alongside the child, and the number of mothers whose employers receive benefits under the Job Protection Action Programme has increased by one third. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We hope that these benefits will also be reflected in birth numbers. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-132	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I give the floor to the congresswoman for the rejoinder.
u2014-11-17-133	Thank you very much. It is indisputable, Madam Secretary of State, that this is a very positive and very important measure. Allow me to make my answer a little personal. When I graduated from college, my child was born in a few weeks, and for more than a year, I was without any income, because there were no such measures. That is why I very much supported and supported this measure, and it is a huge thing that it has helped in the situation of 20,000 mothers and 20,000 families, and while the previous comments were all about the complaint, here we can finally give a joyful result that we can all be proud of. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-135	Thank you very much, too, for the personal confirmation of the Congresswoman. Although women's employment has been at peak for a very long time, this shows the extra positive effect of the child, we have not stopped with these measures. Our family support action plan for next year will further assist women's part-time employment, as you, as a practicing mother, will certainly also know that if a mother can work part-time, it will be much easier to reconcile work with the family. I can tell you my own example: I have given birth to three children, and I have not received the support for children in the absence of your sister, so I hope that we will continue to strengthen demographic processes with the family home-building discount, tax incentives and flexible work in the next year, and this? Do I say it again? We're counting on all of you to support us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-136	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: why did Fidesz fool the candidates? It's an address. Congressman András Schiffer has the floor.
u2014-11-17-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, During the 2002-2010 cycle, Fidesz acted very sharply and quite rightly against the destruction of the village, the dispersal of small settlements, stood up for the small post office, for the wing lines, did they stand up? Mr. Vice President Lezsák also organized a campaign? for the protection of youth schools. Not much has been seen in the implementation of promises over the past four years, but now it seems that they have also hit small settlement municipalities. Was that law born in December 2012? By entering into force on the day of the local elections 14? , which roughly reduced the salary of small town mayors to 20 percent of the Deputy State Secretary's salary, which is exactly a gross income of HUF 150,000. In June, my fellow Members Ikotity and Sallai presented a bill in order to ensure that this does not remain the case and that there is a substantial competition to lead small settlements. We proposed to raise the salaries of small town managers to 30% and 50% respectively, and we also suggested that the second salary, set at 50 per cent, should apply not only to the mayors of the settlements of 1500 but also to the mayors of 2000 inhabitants. You did not include this proposal in a series of subjects, but you can see from the results of October 12th that we suspected there was another tangle in the Fidesz motion. This has come true: the number of candidates in small settlements has decreased sharply, including the number of independent candidates and the number of opposition candidates. What we suspected seems to be real, the Fidesz candidates knew something in advance: the salary will rise. And one more problem, Prime Minister: by reducing the salary of small-town managers, the salary of remaining officials has been reduced. We are also talking about settlements where the only place of work besides public employment is the mayor's office. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I look forward to your reply as to how that was supposed to be. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-138	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-139	Honourable Congressman, If I understand what you're saying, it's two different things. One of them is a transformation resulting from the December 2012 Act. We have already discussed whether or not to be a full-time mayor in a settlement of less than 2 thousand people, I do not think it is necessary; how much the salary should be; whether it depends on the size of the settlement, depends on it. So we've been over this, if you don't mind, I wouldn't be responding to that right now. However, there is another part of what you have to say, which is a rather serious suspicion or accusation, which I would like to settle here, and I would like to defend ourselves against it. From your word, it seemed as if we had reduced the mayor's salaries in the small settlements, so that we could take it back after the municipal elections, but only the pro-government people knew about it, and consequently, no candidates for opposition and independent mayors were launched. If that were the case, so if you'd said that in a conditional way, I'd agree with you. So I think it's unacceptable that, right now, after the elections, we change the situation and raise the salaries of the mayors of small settlements, that would really trigger that suspicion? And we can't really defend ourselves against that? That it's a well-compounded scam. This is not true; this was not our intention, and this must be avoided, so I would like to assure you that the Government will not support that motion, but wants to change the system adopted in December 2012, including its pay section. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-140	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I give the floor to Congressman Schiffer András in return.
u2014-11-17-141	Mr. Prime Minister, There are two questions here. One question is whether it is even fair to change the rules of the game suddenly after an election. It is not just small settlements; it is also the largest settlement. My question is, if, let's say, the candidate for the LMP wins the mayor's election, or if the colleague sitting next to me won the mayor's election, then the same mayor's extension would have come before the House, which you have just submitted. Why didn't they change the rules of conflict of interest for municipal representatives in the summer before the election? It would have been fair. The other question? Do I think this is worth discussing, Prime Minister? That you claim that there is no need for full-time mayors in small settlements. This is the same rhetoric, the same approach that neoliberal governments said between 2002 and 2010, the same approach that would condemn small settlements to death [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] without which the population reserve of the Hungarian countryside [[The president's ringing again.]] It's gonna be lost. Thank you very much. [[16.10]]
u2014-11-17-142	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return.
u2014-11-17-143	Perhaps at first, if I may, my fellow Member, I would like to respond to your opinion, which gave the impression that you would agree with a solution that in small settlements where there are not enough jobs, we should hire people to work in the municipal office. Mereven rejects this assumption and this proposal. This isn't going anywhere, it's not creating jobs. Public works programmes, the creation of investment zones, these are all sensible things, increasing the number of government employees, or increasing the number of local government employees in social policy terms, have already destroyed this country once, and I suggest that we not go on this journey again. As far as pay and power is concerned, I'd like to separate that. No change in payments in the case of the Mayor [[Dr. András Schiffer: In power.]] It will be exactly as the rules laid down before the elections. And what I can tell you about the expansion of power is that all the elements of it have been announced earlier, and it was fully known before the election. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But they didn't submit it!]] And as for my heart's otherwise sad or painful desire, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Mr. President, you are not listening to time!]] I'd like to say that we want to pursue some kind of liberal policy in the lives of small settlements. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Oh, how partial the sitting is!]] I grew up in a village where the number never exceeded 2,000. [[The president's ringing again.]] So calm down, I know exactly what I'm talking about. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-144	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mengyi Roland, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: What are the prospects of the Hungarian economy for 2015? It's an address. Minister, it's urgent...? I'm sorry, the Minister will answer the immediate question. According to my script, it's different. It's up to Congressman.
u2014-11-17-145	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, The work started by the government in 2010 showed that the damage caused by the financial crisis and the irresponsible management of the former governments in the Hungarian economy can be rectified by rational, professionally sound economic policies that are always in national interest. The steps taken in recent years have allowed Hungary to recover. Of course, success is based on concrete facts: today nearly 400 thousand more people are working than in 2010, every year our country's public debt is falling, while with a disciplined fiscal policy we managed to get Hungary out of the excessive deficit procedure. Last week, it also turned out that Hungary does not keep pace with Europe, but is also much ahead of its narrower and wider environment. Although previously the European Union has calculated still moderate forecasts for our country, they now recognise that this year's economic growth could reach or even exceed 3 per cent. Hungary has once again demonstrated that the current economic policy is correct and has produced a 3.1 percent increase, thus registering the third highest GDP growth across Europe. It is a telltale fact that the European Union's GDP growth is 1.3 percent, so it does not reach half of the Hungarian performance. Agriculture, industry and construction have produced particularly good results. In addition, it is not a one-off leap, Hungary has a regular indicator of over 3 percent this year, with which it is also at the forefront of Europe. That is why I am asking Minister what the prospects of the Hungarian economy for 2015 are, on such grounds and with such indicators.
u2014-11-17-146	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the Hungarian economy is performing better than expected this year. What I can tell you is that after the first quarter, we achieved a very high growth in the second and third quarter, with 3.9 percent in the second quarter, and we were first among the 28 Member States of Europe, and now, in the third quarter, we were also in the third place, with 3.1 percent in the podium. I therefore think that the expectations of the Hungarian government will be confirmed when the economic policies that have begun are reflected in the performances with which we belong to the highest growth range in Europe. Some people recognize this growth and recognize this performance. Several of the credit rating agencies have adjusted their economic calculations for Hungary in recent months and are waiting for this year's economic growth in a higher growth range. However, there are some economic researchers who have not done this yet, who call themselves economic researchers in Hungary, who have given advice to MSZP governments earlier, they said in autumn 2013 that the performance of the Hungarian economy will increase by 1.3 percent this year. Well, they hit the numbers, only in reverse order, not 1.3, but the performance of the Hungarian economy is expected to increase by 3.1 percent. We continue to expect employment to grow this year. We expect inflation to remain around zero percent, so there will be essentially no decline in money. We expect that the investments started will continue; by 2015, there will be nearly 45-50 investments in the preparatory phase that we can expect to be transferred. I therefore think that the government's expectations are justified, and after this year, a dynamic growth between European countries is expected in 2015 as well; we expect the employment capacity of the Hungarian economy to grow further, give more people job opportunities and more families a livelihood. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-148	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-149	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, We know that the European Commission has already given a commendable nod to what has been said, as the government's forecasts for sovereign debt, the general government deficit have been adopted at all points, as well as those European calculations that anticipate our country's further economic growth, far above the EU average. At the same time, it is important that the Hungarian Government continues to pursue an economic policy so that these macro results can be felt by the Hungarian SME sector and people in their everyday lives. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-150	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Mihály Varga is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-11-17-151	Honourable Congressman, I know that you are from a county in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, where you pay particular attention to how employment is developing, so I am pleased to say that employment has grown dynamically in recent months, and that thanks to the government's action, it has been possible to keep more money than people, on the one hand, with wage growth. We plan not only to raise the wages of teachers by 10% next year, but also to raise the wages of professional and law enforcement workers by 30%. Through tax incentives, we want to provide additional support for families. And 2015 is the start of the seven-year development cycle where EU funds will be used to a large extent. So our expectation is that these subsidies and savings and increased consumption will also help your county, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, so that small and medium-sized enterprises will have more support and development resources and their investments will be able to take place in 2015. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-152	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours and 18 minutes. We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now we're going to talk about questions. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When are they actually taking vocational training seriously? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2014-11-17-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the 2013 competence assessment, some very important findings are made by the Education Office. It says that there is serious concern about the performance of VET students in the 10th grade. In addition to the fact that the average result of vocational school students is about four fifths to one hour below the national average, [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] , compared with other grades, this result is also lower than the average result of pupils four years younger in grade 6 of primary school. From these data, therefore, we can see that there is a problem in vocational training. However, is it vocational training? Despite all government phrases? has become a stepchild of education. The framework course for vocational education has significantly reduced the number of public education courses. Let me just give you a few numbers: 18 in the 9th grade, 11 in the 10th grade, 9.5 in the 12th grade can be used for theoretical training. Theoretical is, of course, meant in quotes, since it includes mandatory physical education. [[16.20]] This also means, of course, that if you don't count on the freely selected about one-and-a-half hours that can be spent on this, then the graduates do not necessarily study Hungarian, mathematics and history subjects. It's just as bad with textbook care. Experimental textbooks have also been introduced in this area this semester, but the solution to everyday exercise is a continuing problem, especially in dual vocational training and in trainings that are moving in this direction. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State: are you planning to make thoughtful improvements in order to correct operational anomalies? Is it planned that the framework of the training course will include: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is there a competence development and a stable legislative environment planned? Thank you very much for your reply. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Dezső Incredible.]]
u2014-11-17-154	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-17-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If ever, I feel that in these years we have taken vocational training seriously, its renewal and its seriousisation. You may know that, prior to the introduction of the three-year dual vocational education course, 30 percent of the students had to leave the school type. That means every third student. The students had a low learning average, so we had to think about renewing the content and methodology of public education. Our actions will eliminate multigenerational unemployment and the difficulties of young people starting their careers. We want to make physical work and its appreciation recognised again for society, as we all perceive the lack of good and reliable industrialists. Have we built the publication of a vocational school framework for years of testing, since advanced vocational training? The one you introduced earlier? gave us the basis to decide what needs to be changed. The difficulties raised by you have already shown that professional development of vocational training and vocational education and training is essential on the basis of previous PISA measurements and home competence measurements in the 2000s. I remind you that you have governed for eight years, and its impact has influenced the results of the 2013 measurement in a decisive way. Therefore, the measure taken to tackle inefficiency is the new form of 3 years of vocational school training, which has been fully introduced since September 13 and which is in particular trying to help students with public knowledge disadvantages and basic competence gaps, providing learning experiences by providing the opportunity to learn from the first year of the vocational school, from grade 9. At the same time, the vocational training required by the VET Act [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the time frame, we pass on public knowledge items that have previously resulted in a large proportion of failures, but are we confident that young people will now learn them more easily? and we can continue from here in the next dialogue. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-156	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Can the citizens of the settlements living along Tarna count on the Ministry of the Interior to take the necessary steps to restore public order and public security? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider has the floor.
u2014-11-17-157	Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, in March 2007, the Socialist Government terminated the Tarnamera police station in Heves County. The gradual deterioration of public policy in the region started immediately. In July 2011, the 17 mayors of the Végi Subregional Multipurpose Association sent a letter to Minister Sándor Pintér to improve public security. Mayors of the complexly disadvantaged small region indicated three years ago that the subjective sense of security of the population in several settlements had turned to hopelessness. In particular, crimes against property that become commonplace during winter create insurmountable difficulties for the citizens of the municipalities concerned. The most vulnerable? Do I think of the elderly and the single ones in particular? completely defenseless against criminals. Dear Secretary of State, The locals, with Jobbik's powerful help, initiated the collection of signatures, because there is an urgent need to restore the Tarnaméra police station, which has been abolished by the socialists. It is essential to address the increasing problems in the region. I stress that this is only enough to manage, because the unemployment rate in the region is extremely high at national level. Some citizens simply don't get decent work on the ground, a decent living opportunity, so some of the minority are consciously settled for aid and violation of the rules. I respectfully ask the Government and the Minister of the Interior and the Secretary of State to assist in dealing with the situation that has become critical. As soon as you set up a police station in Tarnamera, take into account the unanimous will of the population and take the necessary steps. And now, Mr. Secretary of State or Mr. President, please allow me to give these more than 2,000 signatures to the Secretary of State. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. ? Dr. Kontra approaches Charles and hand over the bundle of documents and shake hands.]]
u2014-11-17-158	Thank you, Congressman. We waited for the signatures to be handed over. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-17-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can answer your question in the title of your oral question with a strong yes, as the Government and the Ministry of Interior and the police are taking decisive steps to improve the safety of the people living along Tarna, so on 25 September 2013, the National Police Commissioner ordered increased police presence and increased police control in the 5 counties of the Eastern region, including the Tarna settlements. During the initial period, personnel of the Police Directorate and personnel of the Police Headquarters of Heves County, and as of 1 July 2014, personnel of the Police Headquarters of Heves County and personnel of the Alert Police Department shall carry out this activity as a subsidiary. Thanks to this activity, increased police presence and increased police controls, improvements have been made, but we are not satisfied either. We want more security, we want to move on, we can go on the road that aims to improve the public safety of people living in settlements, so we are looking at the possibility of re-establishing a police station in Tarnamera. As I began to answer, I have good news: the police are examining this possibility. At the same time, we will cooperate with the municipality. For example, the municipality of Tarnaméra has built an internal camera system, and several other municipalities along Tarna are dealing with this possibility. As far as work is concerned, we are indeed, instead of aid, working on the principle. In the 2015 budget we provide HUF 270 billion for public employment. We're confident that this [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This amount will also be allocated to the inhabitants of the Tarna settlements, and we also hope that this will contribute to making the people living there safer. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "When will we finally see you clearly in kindergarten? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2014-11-17-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, While it is still unclear whether the institutional system will really be able to receive preschool children from September 2015 onwards, the government would already have the family allowance in kindergarten. In other words, parents cannot be sure that there is room for their children in kindergarten, it is certain that they will take away the family allowance if their children are not sent to kindergarten. In kindergarten, we have seen rather a failure on the part of the government. Originally, they wanted to introduce compulsory preschooling from 3 years of age from September 2014. Finally, common sense prevailed, and they admitted that the institutional system, in its present state, was not fit to receive all eligible children. It was planned to create 5700 seats with EU funding of HUF 23 billion, but only about one third of it was created by September of this year, so they slipped with it. And now Zoltán Balog is talking about the creation of 4,000 new seats by September next year, that is to say, as an additional expansion, the government is communicating what should actually have been realized by September this year. The government knows precisely that, in view of the present conditions, it is not certain that from next September all children will be able to receive them in those kindergartens, since many of them are already overwhelmed. [[16.30]] The proportion of children going to kindergarten is 75 percent among the three-year-olds, 93 percent among the four-year-olds, and 95 percent among the five-year-olds. In addition to increasing participation rates and reducing congestion, it would only be possible to achieve a major expansion involving both physical infrastructure and pedagogical staff. Therefore, we cannot see the guarantees that this decision can be introduced from next September. My question is, when are we gonna see you clearly in kindergarten? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you not to talk about the promise that has not yet been made, but about what schedule and when you will know. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] to ensure both physical and personal conditions of the government. Thank you.
u2014-11-17-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-17-163	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Sometimes you've done things without context, sometimes with malice, so it's worth starting from the beginning. From next year onwards, the government introduced a preschooling obligation from the age of three, because we believe that we can eliminate the educational disadvantage of children, especially children who are disadvantaged, at the age of six or seven, if we can develop their abilities evenly in kindergarten conditions than those of young people with better abilities. For this reason, it is to create a chance to have these children in kindergarten from the age of three, especially those who live in difficult circumstances. This requires the expansion of kindergarten seats where there are many children, as there are now more kindergarten seats than the number of preschoolers who will be in the 1st of September, but not in those places. What you said was that we're handing over 4,000 new kindergarten seats this year, that's exactly what we're doing. As you said in the previous cycle, more than 5,000 preschool seats have already been expanded in more than a hundred locations out of 23 million forints, and another 7,000 have started, and have either gone to the planning or construction phase. You mentioned your relationship with the family allowance. Mr President, if kindergarten is mandatory and it is obviously in the child's interest to go to kindergarten? Although in some cases, if it is in the child's interest, can you, of course, be exempted from this, as in the case of school students? If a person does not pay attention to his own child so much that he does not control, set him off or take his child to kindergarten as he later does not take him to school, and thus endangers the child's interests, then the state must take every opportunity to encourage that parent to do his parenting and take his child to kindergarten. That is why we think that, as we have made the family allowance for schoolchildren, we are making it a condition for a family allowance under compulsory kindergarten. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the interest of the child. That's why we're creating [[The president's ringing again.]] And these countless kindergarten seats. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-17-164	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Simon, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Did the strategy for the development of sports facilities bring any visible results in the last year? It's an address. Congressman Robert Simon has the floor.
u2014-11-17-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, A year ago, the government adopted a strategy for the development of sports facilities for the period 2014-2020. According to the information provided at the time, this was necessary to improve leisure and competition sports, training for replacements, regular physical activity and the situation of daily physical education. At the time, we also learned that sustainable, funded operation is a crucial aspect of implementation. [[Dr. András Schiffer and R. Benedek Sallai come into the Chamber in red and blue vests. ? Attila Mesterházy: Go, Vasas!]] and the alignment of developments to municipal levels. Many welcomed the adoption of the strategy because it was considered that a radical change was needed in the approach of people, especially children and young people. They need to be more attractive to exercise, more emphasis should be placed on physical and mental health issues related to regular physical activity, and the role of role models chosen from the sports world, leading sports performances, can also play an important role. I believe that the strategy can be considered to be successful first and foremost if the physical activity of Hungarians is demonstrably and significantly increased, the mood for action is improved, its health indicators are improved, and the need for simple physical activity is increasingly replaced by the connection to conscious and professional physical development. However, this is unthinkable without eliminating infrastructure delays. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what progress has been made by the government over the past year, and what improvements will be made by the end of the coming year; what results have been achieved by one year in terms of leisure and competition sports, replacement training, regular physical activity and daily physical education; and in what way does this programme guarantee further sustainability of development? I look forward to the honour of the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-166	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Simicskó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-17-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank you for bringing the issue of Hungarian sport and the issue of raising healthy generations to Parliament from time to time, and we can talk about it. It is very important for sport to function as a strategic sector, and I see that strategic thinking in this area is very, very important. We have set ourselves three goals in the field of sport. One is that every child should play sports. The other is to build sports facilities so that our young people, our children and everyone can play sports under cultural conditions. The third is that we can host as many sports competitions as possible, bring fans here, bring famous athletes here, and Hungarian athletes can show their knowledge in front of the Hungarian audience. Through this, of course, we can strengthen Hungary's national sport, and a country like Hungary, where there are extremely good athletes and there have been in the past, can be proud of the fact that we want to build an athletic nation. But every child should learn to play sports. The result of this, I think, has been said several times. At present, as a result of everyday physical education, about 890 thousand children play sports during physical education. With regard to the facilities, I would like to inform this House that we are in Hungary today that virtually every third Hungarian settlement has a sports facility. We have also been able to significantly increase the number of sports competitions that we have brought to Hungary. We will also bring 41 world competitions to Hungary by 2015, in 2016 we have received 35 and 29 competitions in 2017. We have achieved a number of sports diplomacy successes, thanks to which we can bring prestigious world championships, European championships to Hungary. Without the need for completeness, let me say that we have handed over the Athletic Hall in Székesfehérvár, the Football Stadium in Nagyerde, the Ist beat of the Leisure Hall in Bujtos, the renovated Nyíregyháza stadium and the sports complex. I got to meet you this weekend, we were at the happy event. The city of Győr deserved the new arena, where handball girls will play the European Championship. Obviously the ETO has a successful handball team [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which also deserved the opportunity to do so. The Spike Hall will soon be handed over at the end of this month. [[The president's ringing again.]] Újbuda and Budapest are getting rich [[The president keeps ringing the bell.]] With a new sports installation. [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] Many facilities will be built in the coming period. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-168	Mr. Secretary, we've gone way beyond the time frame. Sport is important, but it can't be that important, unfortunately. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. What has the government done about the Zsolnay plant? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2014-11-17-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On June 11th, I interpelled the Ministry, as it came to light that one of the owners of Zsolnay, then even the minority owner of Zsolnay, defended the name Zsolnay in a company of his own interests. Then, during the interpellation, the Secretary of State, repeating the factual basis, did not contest its historical loyalty, but nothing happened afterwards. My colleague Bertalan Tóth and I have filed a complaint, and we thought that this was a fraudulent case. In this, the investigating authority established its jurisdiction and authority, as well as the two-way probable cause, and the investigation started. After that, in the course of your investigation, you have still done nothing. According to some press reports, I can tell you from Fullank.com that another procedure against the managing director has been completed, where, on the basis of a false indication of goods, he was suspended for three years on probation? Says this press organ. You are very forgiving in this case, neither the MNV nor the city with the right of Pécs county have asked for the penalty of late payment, and you have accepted a property, instead of a monetary contribution, which is at least doubtful that its value is as much as it has been taken into account. Currently, this manager owns 81 percent of the Zsolnay Manufactory, which is considered the Hungarian Hungaricum. This is the share of property which has a significant influence. You are doing very well, and in fact, when you said that you were doing everything you could, it was clear that you hadn't done anything since June 11th, extended the fb, and then accepted this contribution, and then nothing happened. My question is, do you know that in 2015 your buy-back will run out? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and whether the implementation of the syndicated contract has been assessed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[16.40]]
u2014-11-17-170	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor.
u2014-11-17-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, At the request of the general meeting of the county-righted city Zsolnay Porcelánmanufactory Zrt. its supervisory board has conducted an investigation into the trade mark. The investigation found that the proprietor of the trademarks was Zsolnay Porcelánmanufaktúra Zrt., and therefore the company initiated Swissair Kft. the transfer of international trade marks registered in favour of the factory. The procedure is in progress, so it cannot be stated that it was only returned to the European countries. So we're in the process. An annual report has not been drawn up under the syndicate agreement, the company has an annual report audited by an auditor. The property contribution of uncertain value was not accepted by the company; it was decided by the final judgment referred to by you in favour of the private investor. The city of Pécs could not give up the so-called non-performance penalty, since it could not have been imposed by a court decision. At the same time, the examination of the imposition of the penalty for late payment is ongoing on the basis of the final judgment. Since the Hungarian State has a contractual relationship with the city of Pécs, we cannot act directly against the private investor. With the private investor, Pécs County City has concluded a contract for the transfer of shares and syndicates, so it is the responsibility of the local government to enforce the provisions of the contracts concluded to the investor. The government primarily expects the municipality to settle all disputes with the private investor within a short period of time and to jointly ensure the long-term viability of the famous plant in accordance with the syndicate agreement between them. If the intervention of the Hungarian State becomes necessary, then MNV Zrt. take action by all available legal means to enforce the public interest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-172	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2014-11-17-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, When I spoke in my first speech here about, among other things, the ignominious agricultural situation in South Somogy due to the Italian wiener, Minister Fazekas actually resented why I blamed you for the former conditions. When, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, I tried to justify the draft legislation on farm regulation submitted by Jobbik and the employment obligation associated with it with the unsustainable social disaster experienced in the villages in the area, one of your representatives ridiculed the fact that after such a report, the audience cut his wrists. When, because of the new homeowners and their expansion, our regional defense cabinet leader published an article born in righteous indignation, the police began to search and investigate, according to the report of the foreign landlords. I suppose if Sándor Petőfi were to rise and recite his poem "What Doesn't He Speak," then he might even be arrested for hate speech. Then, when, due to its fencedness, we raised several times the roadblocks, which were illegally placed at the border of the Rinyaszent Király, called Alcatraz, and threw them into the trees of the poplar plantation of the foreign owner, the authority chose to transfer the road, instead of at least imposing a symbolic penalty on the foreign owner who closed the village in the ghetto, to obtain a certificate that could be blocked from public traffic. When we rang an emergency bell about the land traffic law expanding the world's world market in front of foreigners, that's what you guys did. Now, the Benetton family and its governors, well-known by you, are eager to continue to grow, and that is their plan. On the basis of a citizen's signal, we went to the Attorney General, so I ask whether the land around your feet will belong to Hungarian farmers and whether the state has the right to pre-empt. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-174	Congressman, your time limit is up. I'd like to ask you to shorten the question further next time. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2014-11-17-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, There wasn't time for the question he wanted to ask. I'll start with the end: in this case, and in many other cases, does the state intend to exercise its pre-emptive right? Shall I reassure you? We've bought nearly 5,000 acres. I don't want to bore you with that, because we've talked about how much money you've had in the past for these pre-emptive rights? exactly zero between 2006 and 2010? And now we've spent more than five billion forints on this. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] However, due to the shortness of time, I would like to mention one more thing, which hit my ears very hard and, as I read your question, I think there is a huge misunderstanding here. You claim that the Land Traffic Act will open up the Hungarian land market worldwide. I don't know if you're reading the press or watching the international news, but I'm sure you've noticed that there's an infringement procedure against Hungary. It is difficult for me to count on one hand the number of countries that do not think that we completely exclude everyone who is foreign from the Hungarian land market: Austria, Italy, Germany, France and England, contrary to EU rules. These states all report to us in Brussels because they claim that the Land Traffic Act prevents them from buying land in Hungary. So what I am saying is that you are arguing on a scale with the citizens of the EU Member States and with all Hungarian citizens, because there is no one outside the Jobbik faction who claims that this land traffic law would not serve to exclude anyone who is not a local farmer from the land market. I am modifying that there is no one who has read the law who doesn't think that way. Thank you for listening. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2014-11-17-176	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Mr President, I would like to inform you that there is no place for dialogue in this Chamber, and this also applies to the Member. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2014-11-17-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the end of last year, there was a great deal of dust on the hazardous waste site in Balmazújváros. As is known, in Balmazújváros, in the vicinity of Hortobágy National Park, 2 thousand tons of hazardous waste were stored under inadequate conditions. This was highlighted by a local NGO at the end of last year. At a press conference, the mayor of Balmazújváros said that young people in the city have a blood problem that is significantly above average, and that the proximity of the hazardous waste storage facility is believed to be behind the disease. Despite Jobbik's call, the government did nothing to account for those responsible, so we did not find out who had caused many people in Balmasújváros to get sick. But what about their own promises? At the press conference mentioned earlier, Zoltán Illés made the following promise:. In order to completely eliminate the Hortobágy hazardous waste storage facility, I initiate the separation of a HUF 350 million financial fund with the government. In addition, he added that for the next cycle he would also initiate the creation of a HUF 3-4 billion waste-disposal fund with the government. Dear Secretary of State, I am aware that Zoltán Elijah is no longer a member of the government, but he made his promises on behalf of the government. That's why I'd like to ask you what stage this case is in. Has 350 million forints been isolated for the destruction of the colony? If not, why not? If so, why hasn't the liquidation started? Because everyone, especially those living in the settlement, is aware that nothing has happened since then. And my last question is how much money the government will spend on this cycle to eliminate such polluting sites. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.50]]
u2014-11-17-178	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-17-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The hazardous waste storage facility in Balmazújváros-Lászlóháza was built in the 1980s. Its purpose was to ensure the safe temporary storage of waste for recovery and disposal by large waste companies until sufficient waste disposal capacity was built up in the country. The regionally competent Trans-Tiszántúli Environmental and Natural Protection Inspectorate has continuously monitored the activities of the site. Based on the 1994 test results, some components of the site's soil water are subject to a slight increase in the so-called B-limit. This means that intervention is necessary, but these interventions do not require immediate action. On 27 March 2013, the Inspectorate filed a criminal report on pollution. As a result of the criminal complaint, the judicial phase of the case is currently under way, so we have taken the necessary steps in both administrative and criminal matters to be held accountable. I would like to note here that it is clear from the question of the Member and from the press that it has now become accepted at the level of communication that, after an activity that threatens the environment, the government has to endure. It has become almost natural in Hungary for the environmental company to self-destruct, and we have to deal with the consequences with public money and the public burden. I think in these cases, apart from pollution, that's the biggest problem. The government will therefore investigate the possibility of criminal prosecution in any case. Where there is a direct risk of environmental and health damage, we will do everything we can to eliminate the threat. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-17-180	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We are now at the end of the discussion of the questions. It's 16 hours and 52 minutes. We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the tax on luxury swimming pools T/1548. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr President Novak in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-11-17-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Last week, I donated a windcock to Péter Szijjártó here in the National Assembly to pin it on his 200 million pool house, after submitting a proposal for the taxation of luxury pools in 2005, complaining to Ferenc Gyurcsány that he would not pay a luxury tax on his luxury swimming pool as a billionaire. In fact, on the Fidelitas website you can still find the announcement marked by his name, and he also participated at a press conference in front of the Gyurcsány Ferenc Szemlőhegy street villa in order to pay a tax on luxury swimming pools and luxury pools worth more than HUF 20 million. He said that Hungary today has a luxury left-wing prime minister who does not consider public cargo to be mandatory for himself, he complained about Ferenc Gyurcsány. It just seems that by entering the government of the rich, he too seems to be more interested in the interests of the billionaires, in the interests of his own circles, and also in his own interests, perhaps even in these moments, rather than taking part in this announced debate and expressing his strong position in 2005, he may still be swimming in a luxury pool worth more than HUF 20 million, according to our estimates. I asked two valuers based on the leaked photos and property prices to estimate it, and obviously not only the pool itself or the occupied amount of water must be included in it, but also the property occupied by it, the value of the housing unit, and this is indeed more than HUF 20 million. Well, he didn't think it would happen that way. In 2005, he didn't think he'd have such a fabulous fortune, that he could do all that. I would add that if, say, Gábor Simon knew that such unscrupulous statements could explain an otherwise incomprehensible enrichment, then perhaps Gábor Simon would still be sitting among us. In 2005, Péter Szijjártó presented a proposal, whose brief explanation I would like to read. In fact, there are two sentences here:. There are millions of people living in Hungary around the minimum living space, while individuals have tens of millions of swimming pools in their own properties. Taxing swimming pools worth at least 20 million forints, which are almost unattainable to the commoner, thus, in my opinion, has a place in the Luxury Tax Act. After all, they were obviously unable to put their own bill on the agenda from the opposition at the time, but using an amendment, they tried to implement this new proposal. However, as in so many other cases, unfortunately Fidesz tends to forget the promises made earlier by the opposition. That is why I was forced to present this proposal myself, but unfortunately, this proposal was swept off by the designated Economic Committee without debate. That is why the Jobbik Group has now asked for an exchange of views in a plenary debate on this excellent proposal by Péter Szijjártó, which he made in 2005, and tomorrow he can vote on this issue himself. He avoided answering the question on Monday last week, even though I asked him twice on an immediate question and in my rejoinder. Twice, let alone bullshit, he didn't touch that question at all. So now I'm going to have to ask him an immediate question again, and I'm going to wait until he finally has time for his time in public life, of course. We can't bypass him taking a stand on this. With the same reason, therefore, I have submitted the same proposal, Honourable Parliament, knowing that millions of people live in Hungary around the minimum living age, and we propose to tax these luxury swimming pools, citing the same justification. Let me also add that Jobbik also initiated the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Security Committee to investigate whether Péter Szijjártó connected the Eastern opening policy with the opening of the Eastern bank account, or what foreign interests may result from the growth of a hundred million-dollar wealth, for which he, as a member of the government known as his parents' dependent minister, made more unscrupulous changes to his previous declarations of assets than even Antal Rogán. We would therefore like to see clearly in these matters, too, in the matter of Peter Szijjártó's personal wealth. But as long as there are obviously cases like these around the National Tax and Customs Office, which I've been hearing lately, there's no way to expect a fair asset assessment procedure, a wealth recovery investigation. We are therefore initiating the Parliament to address these issues. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-182	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group, in a two-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-17-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The MSZP faction will support Jobbik's idea. But it must be said that this proposed amendment is not sufficient. You have to support it, because the heating of pools is public money, and I think you can just say no to that. But we have to say here that in the case of a fair reduction in overhead costs, it has to be taken into account that today one and a half times as many consumers have late utility debts as in 2009, more than one third of one million 800 thousand consumers have over 90 days of debt, and the total debt of those who are behind is more than twice as much as in 2009. That's nearly 100 billion forints. According to one study, some 900 thousand homes are heated with wood, coal, and LPG, so a large proportion of people living in housing poverty do not even benefit from the reduction of their rent. Secretary of State, I promised to say that in each of my speeches, today there are 170,000 children in Hungary living in apartments where there is no toilet, there is no electricity in the home of 197 thousand children, and 620,000 children live in homes that are soaked and moldy. But here I'd like to say, personally, that I have a problem with a pool of less than 20 million if we heat those pools with public money, with state-supported electricity. [[17.00]] I think that this is not the most important thing in Hungary on the basis of the data that has been said. We've tabled a bill on a fair reduction in the rent, the Fidesz-KDNP has swept it off the table for more than one, and I think it's not important for them, it's only important for them that scandals are stacked up and money is spent with both hands in this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-17-184	Thank you, fellow Member. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a speech.
u2014-11-17-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We support the inclusion of this proposal in the series for two reasons. On the one hand, we are in favour of any initiative that confronts the Fidesz people about how they turn their cape from opposition to government seats - right, Mr Secretary of State? And, on the other hand, we naturally support any proposal aimed at allocating public burdens fairly. I'm wearing this vest because right now, the Iron Union is protesting out on Kossuth Square against the injustices of the tax package that will be voted on tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Of course, we agree with any proposal that was conceived to pay the rich. I must add that it is not only about the insufferable richness, but also about the fact that the consumption of luxury goods is an ongoing contribution to the use of our resources and the destruction of our environment. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] At the same time, if this proposal is included, we will obviously have a lot of amendments, since it must be taken into account that the Novák's predecessor proposal is to the full extent [[Szijjártó's kind!]] Is there perhaps a billion or two billion forints of tax revenue available? Excuse me, is the Szijjártó proposal worth a billion or two forints? and, at the same time, the introduction, collection and control of a new tax, provided that the NAV does its job where it should be, well above one or two billion forints. So we would still have ideas about what other luxury goods we should hit with high taxes. Indeed, the rich should pay and face their earlier claims by those who can change their position obscenely according to how their meeting point has changed. Thank you very much. [[The Foreman of Novak and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2014-11-17-186	Welcome. We'll get back to work. I give word to Congressman Tibor Bana of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is completely discredited on this issue. Péter Szijjártó cynically shirked away from answering the question, acting like a windcock. But not only in his case, but others have done so, and, overall, many examples could be taken of the strong and loud standing of pro-government representatives and members of government in opposition to specific issues, and then, going to government, they have already represented a completely different role in these matters. If we look back at the previous cycle and the past months, we can see that our proposals have also been swept down. While we are already on the week of the general debate on the budget, I would like to point out that this was also the case for most of our amendments to the budget, although in many cases we were talking about proposals that you said almost similarly a few years ago. There was a refreshing exception because, for example, my proposal for the Baroque church in Szentgotthárd was supported in 2010, but in the years that followed, I didn't submit any proposals for further renovation, and they didn't. I wonder what your position on this matter will be during this year's vote. I could also mention the issue of health, because in opposition you have stood very firmly against the rural destruction of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, but in contrast, we have seen in recent years that hospitals have been dismantled. For example, in my own constituency, Körmenden, two years ago, obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine were terminated with a single stroke of the pen. We, the right-handers, can promise that, once we get to the government in 2018, we will restore these abolished classes, be accountable for these issues, and even specifically ask voters to confront us with these promises, and ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-188	Thank you very much. No more Members asked for a vote, so I will ask Mr President Novák if he wishes to respond to what has been said. There you go. You have two minutes.
u2014-11-17-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for your contributions, and I am very sorry that the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP did not consider it important, but did not take the courage to press a button on an otherwise unquestioned proposal in the right direction. You obviously don't think otherwise of Péter Szijjártó's previous proposal, all the more so, because he hasn't said that he's changed his mind since, let's say, he's been swimming in his own pool of HUF 20 million. So the bill on taxes on luxury swimming pools should, in my opinion, at least be included in a series of subjects. You may say that there is something more urgent, more pressing, some kind of austerity that you must decide first, let us say, for the Parliament, and not the taxation of billionaires, which you believe should be the first thing on the agenda. But what we're talking about is whether or not this question should be included in the inventory at all, whether or not it should be included in a series of subjects. I trust that there will be at least one or two Fidesz, KDNP representative who will be brave enough to say that he dares to go to the cafeteria during the vote and not press a button. 'Cause that's what they used to brag about, not that they weren't pressing a button, or, say, abstaining, but: My predecessor, you watched me, I was out in the cafeteria when there was a vote. And this is a realistic trust, perhaps, that they dare to go to the cafeteria during the vote, or they dare to forget, to forget their documents during the vote, that if they do not press a button, and so they do not vote out this excellent proposal for Péter Szijjártó in 2005, which he made before the Gyurcsány villa. However, what I cannot accept is that the MSZP says that it supports this proposal, now that it does not really divide, it does not multiply what a MSZP of this size, with influence, says. Could they have done this in 2005 when Peter Szijjártó? Maybe now you're saying it's irresponsible, but still? That's what he suggested. However, you swept off this proposal at that time. So we are on this issue as with agent matters, and we could list the proposals that you are so bravely saying, of course, more popular, that you support us, but there was an opportunity to prove that you didn't. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-11-17-190	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Following are the individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the proposal for an amendment. The submission was made in T/1705. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/1705/47. I) and the report of the committees relating to the debate is T/1705/42-45. Available on the network on numbers 48 and 49. T/1705/51. T/1705/52. can also be found on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, rapporteur of the committee. I would like to remind you that the time frame is 15 minutes, 7 minutes for the minority opinion. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the National Assembly that the Legislative Committee on 12 November 2014 is the CXXII of 2010 on individual tax laws and related laws and on the National Tax and Customs Office. T/1705. On 13 November 2014, the Committee presented 20 amendments and a summary report with 7 sexes and 3 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the amendment proposal of the Economic Committee and three separate proposals of the Legislative Committee. At the committee meeting, we received most criticisms from the opposition about the legislative process, i.e. in particular the large extent of the amendments were challenged by my fellow Members and their late information. Here, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in terms of the amount of amendments, the picture is a bit deceptive. As a result of the new house rule, even if we are to express an intention to clarify a punctuation within a paragraph, the whole section must be summoned. [[17.10]] I believe that this regulation is for transparency. However, with regard to their other criticism, I would like to say that I would also welcome the opportunity for all Members to know the proposals for amendments on the day before the committee meetings. The summary proposal mainly includes text-focusing and codification improvements. Among the substantive amendments, I would like to highlight the motion to reject the extension of the telecom tax, which must also have the support of my fellow opposition Members. The other particularly important element of the changes concerns the cafeteria system. Cafeteria benefits can be provided in virtually unchanged form, with unchanged elements and no tax burden, and between 200 thousand and 450 thousand forints the SZÉP card form can be used for the benefit of employees. From 2015 the cafeteria application will be subject to a tax burden of 51,3 per cent above HUF 450 thousand. Two changes to the advertising tax are worth highlighting. On the one hand, it is important to reduce the administrative burden on the basis of the experience gained and, on the other hand, to ensure a proportionate public burden, that we propose to increase the current rate of 40 per cent to 50 per cent. I would also like to highlight two of the changes in content that will be introduced in the future. In order to demonstrate the right to benefit from the corporate tax exemption for R &amp; D, we see a need for fine-tuning, and therefore the previous administrative obligation will also be abolished. The amendments to the road traffic control system are intended to start this control system on 1 January. The Legislative Committee has tabled a separate package of proposals which, on the good part, believed that this House should decide separately as far as possible. In view of what has been said, I call for the support of the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-17-192	Thank you very much. To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó. I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of seven minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, it is shocking that, in the summation of tax laws, during which, after the scandalous TAB meeting last week, you will also make a substantive change to the content of the bill, your presence shows the total lack of interest of the pro-government representatives. Perhaps six or eight of their hundreds of Members are sitting here in Parliament's Chamber. We do not know whether you are interested in the tax laws or the other laws coming up at all in this situation, or whether the protest starting at six o'clock is causing you to slip away from here, from Parliament's Chamber, perhaps protesting against your own government. Obviously, we do not know this, although, as we have heard, in terms of the Internet, this has already been formulated in many of them. With regard to the TAB amendment proposal, ladies and gentlemen, this committee has been humiliated, which, according to the new house rules, is precisely to say that the last-minute, completely unacceptable amendments to the last term, as László Kövér said at the TAB's inaugural meeting, act as a brake and prevent Parliamentary Members from serving the government as a nodger without having any idea of what legislative amendment they are supporting? Now, that function you managed last week, I think you're going down in the most shameful way possible. Ladies and gentlemen, It happened that at our committee meeting starting at 9 a.m. on Wednesday at 2:34 a.m., the committee began to negotiate an electronic amendment of some 134 pages. We're talking about the bill in which you just raised your taxes again for the RTL Club. We are talking about where you did not cancel the cafeteria tax, where you called the soap tax, otherwise your unacceptable new tax type has not been abolished, but you have removed sports events from the scope of the law. Obviously, there is not enough money in Felcsút, so there is a need for further support and rules have been introduced that have otherwise withdrawn or not implemented with regard to tax laws in relation to Norway. Your president on the initiative of the MSZP...? and that is why I am looking at my fellow Member Mengyi, who said here that it would be desirable to have it on the day before. My fellow Member, your president, I understand, has clearly supported the point of order at this committee meeting not to make ourselves laugh at this committee, especially you, and to take off the agenda a proposal that I am sure none of them had a chance to read, not just opposition representatives. You know, my fellow Member, the situation in which you and you made a real decision was there and then, and that is why I am not entirely honest with your concern, what you said here in plenary today, because then you also voted against your own Fidesz President of the Commission, even when the opposition made it clear that it was not possible to assist and that you left the Chamber, at least the MSZP Members. On this bill, at least on the amendment proposal? which, on paper, the Legislative Committee, but I would like to see which employee wrote the 134 pages, the Secretary of State will surely tell you whether they too received this proposal from the TAB, perhaps the other way around, the government has written this proposal, and the committee staff have practically taken this proposal in the name of the committee? no less modified than a shameful increase in the RTL Club's additional tax. This is about nothing but the brutal interference with the freedom of the press from the very first minute. There's no other reason, by the way. Nor could the Secretary of State answer the question, obviously, in addition to the misunderstanding in the Commission's debate, whether the government can finally decide whether it wants to establish a fair or proportionate burden in Hungary. [[András Tállai: This is bullshit! That wasn't a question!]] It is not possible for you to talk about a fair tax system for individuals and to collect as much tax from the rich as from any person with lower incomes, while arguing the opposite of this argument when you find that the special tax on certain companies is, in fact, not related to their real economic performance, but to their position or behaviour with regard to the government. This is completely unacceptable, as we have said, Mr Secretary of State, this bill is only one degree, if you can put it that way, a more civilized solution than if you simply invade the RTL Club and take away its assets, abusing the NAV or even the police's power of state. I guess that's the next step if the RTL Club still refuses to stand in line and say the government mantra. This is a completely unacceptable instrument, and once again, it is hardly different from the fact that it is an abuse of power, in our view, than if you would otherwise do so using the force organisations. So we continued to have no answer at the committee meeting as to what the real reason for this was, and the government did not admit it. The procedure was unacceptable. Insulting and humiliation of the work of Members of Parliament, believe me, for you, I also say, the work of the Parliament's pro-government majority representatives. The opposition has therefore withdrawn and, of course, this bill cannot be voted in favour. We ask you very nicely, and think about it, you can do it by tomorrow morning, withdraw this bill and submit it after a normal consultation. We are asking here, and we also asked at the committee meeting that this bill should not be supported by Parliament tomorrow. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-17-194	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, Mr András Tállai, indicated that he would like to comment at the end of the debate. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have 10 minutes at most. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the Commission rapporteurs. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, rapporteur for the related Committee on Agriculture. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-195	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, On 5 November 2014, the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture conducted the various tax laws and related laws and the 2010 CCXXII on the National Tax and Customs Office as a committee for the negotiation of the text. a detailed discussion of the bill amending the law. [[17.20]] The committee examined the bill as a whole and concluded that the House Committee was in compliance with the House Rule 44. § 2 (1) of the Act. During the in-depth debate, the Committee also discussed proposals for amendments by the representatives who submitted them to the Agriculture Committee as negotiating committee. During the debate, the Committee examined and concluded that the amendments comply with the House Rules Rule 42 of the House Committee. the requirements laid down in Section 2 of this Annex. There was a lengthy debate on the amendments, at the end of which the Committee decided not to support either of the amendments, in the light of the positions of the authors and the wallet. Thus, in the absence of an amending and further amending intention, the Committee did not submit a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. On the subject of the long debate on the amendments which has already been mentioned, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that both of our committee proposals have been tabled by our fellow Members from the MSZP. One wanted to bring the VAT of a very broad group of basic foods to 5% and the other to keep the food chain inspection fee at the current level. At the committee meeting, we made it very clear that although it would be good if VAT reductions could be achieved, there is no possibility at present, as this would mean a loss of budget revenue which would jeopardise the deficit target of less than 3 per cent. Can't you stress enough that the effects of such a move? which, according to opposition communication, would help the poorest layers? Unfortunately, they are unlikely to reach consumers. At the same time, the excessive deficit procedure and the withdrawal of EU aid would be at risk by endangering the deficit target. So we would pay a huge price for a small profit. Here again, I repeat that the government is trying to put consumers in a better position by other means. We've extended it to firewood since this year. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a reduction in the cost of household allowances, an ever-larger and profound system of family tax incentives [[The president's ringing again.]] various careers support this system. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-196	Thank you very much. Now it's the minority opinion. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Harangozó, a description of the minority opinion, within a maximum time frame of 3 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Protocol, Because I don't know who to say my words to, because the Fidesz Members are really very busy at this meeting. Of course, it's understandable, because it's just about next year's tax laws, which is why the whole country is upset that you've been involved in some rather scandalous corruption charges, and in the midst of these corruption charges, these accusations are about the involvement of government actors and government officials in food VAT fraud cases. These are not being investigated or withheld, and because of these scandals, these officials from the United States have been banned. The two socialist amendments, which proposed a reduction in the VAT on basic foods and a reduction in the food chain monitoring fee, were discussed at the Committee's meeting. It is very interesting that I should say minority opinion here in principle, because, in fact, government, pro-government representatives have agreed that if we were to stop corruption in the matter of the fraud of VAT on foodstuffs, the most effective method of doing so is to reduce VAT on basic foods to 5%? in the same way that this is in other countries of Europe, and then you cannot cheat with this VAT right away. Parliamentary State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture himself said that the Ministry of Agriculture is the greatest leader in reducing VAT. There was no argument of merit as to why the pro-government representatives would not support this proposal, and in the end they did not vote down, but abstained for some reason. This is compounded by the fact that it is not enough that, in the end, we were not supported by our proposal to eliminate this possibility of corruption by reducing VAT on basic foods, with a whole interesting proposal, by raising the food chain inspection fee, we are practically introducing another turnover tax, an additional 6 per cent tax, with which sales tax will be not only 27 per cent, but virtually 33 per cent overall in the turnover of businesses representing 50 per cent of food turnover. Ladies and gentlemen, All I can suggest in these short three minutes is that if you want to clean yourself of the charges raised, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] then, in the course of tomorrow, this tax bill and the VAT on basic foods will be withdrawn. [[The president's ringing again.]] A new proposal of 5 per cent will be presented. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-17-198	Thank you very much. I respectfully ask both the pro-government and the opposition representatives to respect the time frame provided by the house rules, giving others the opportunity, such as the rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, who is coming. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, please allow me to say that I met with Dunaferr employees at Kossuth Square at four o'clock, who participated in a protest, and they also gave a minority opinion on the government's work. The minority opinion was relatively loud, I do not know how much it sounded in the Chamber, but they wanted to achieve results on the taxation of the cafeteria. Unfortunately, the representatives of the government were not present. And then thanking Mr President for his flexibility to allow me to say this, I would like to say that the Committee for Sustainable Development is primarily...
u2014-11-17-200	I was definitely flexible, okay? Let's just leave it at that.
u2014-11-17-201	Yes, thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-202	Now get to the point.
u2014-11-17-203	The Committee on Sustainable Development examined tax legislation primarily from a sustainability point of view and from an environmental point of view. The majority adopted the legislation, and I expressed as a minority opinion at the meeting that I basically did not consider tax laws acceptable, which does not implement the two basic pillars of sustainability. One is that it clearly does not promote environmental and nature protection aspects, and in no way does tax regulation seek to create a higher level of environmental security in the country. The other is a question of social justice, since it does not in any way create the possibility, especially of having a single-key girlfriend, to have a higher appearance of social justice. Our committee has held three debates on minor issues. One of them is the increased tax system of home-made pálinka cooking, in which I was of the opinion that it is in fact a threat to legal certainty that all those people seeking home fruit and home-made pálinka cooking who have acquired such equipment in recent years must now register and pay taxes on this, which was not presented to them at the time of acquisition. There were also concerns in principle regarding the entry into service and the exemption from excise duty of bottled injections, which have already brought the tax rules to a rather amusing level, since we did not understand why, while the government does not want to deal with the VAT on basic food, the excise duty on the system of bottled injections, which is not very well known, wants to be dealt with to such an extent. I am fortunate to be able to report a good news in one thing, as it was also formulated as a minority opinion, and then the Fidesz vice-president of the committee also suggested that the introduction of a product fee for local products on the packaging of local craft products could be a particularly damaging aspect for those seeking to develop the countryside and to earn additional income in the countryside, and that this was excluded from the legislative amendment, so we can report this as a Commission result, thanking the government representative for listening to our position in the Commission. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-17-204	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that Fidesz has a total of 17, KDNP has 8 minutes, MSZP has 9 minutes, Jobbik has 9 minutes, LMP has 5 minutes, and independent representatives have a total of 2 minutes. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up is Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz. Here you go. [[17 .30]]
u2014-11-17-205	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Thanks to the work of the government and Hungarian families, the efforts of the past years have brought their results. While Hungary was in a difficult situation in 2010 compared to the Greeks with high public debt, low employment and poor competitiveness indicators, significant progress has now been achieved in a number of important areas. Since 2010, our public debt has been falling, we have managed to reduce the general government deficit to below 3 per cent, and almost 400 000 more people have jobs compared to the 2010 government change. 2015 will be a year of bank accountability and full employment, so the three main pillars of the tax system will be the family tax system, the low taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises and the maintenance of special taxes in 2015. One of the most important elements of the tax package is the further expansion of the family tax system. The purpose of the family tax system is to strengthen and support families and to promote childbearing. Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, in 2014 there will be over HUF 230 billion more income than some 900 thousand Hungarian families. The 2015 tax package continues and expands this work in order to keep as much of the earned income as possible with Hungarian families. Accordingly, family benefits for families with two children are doubled from 2016 to four years. The combined tax base reduction rate will increase year after year by year with the monthly tax on families increasing from the current HUF 10 thousand to HUF 20,000 per child in 2019 by HUF 2500 per year. Since 2010, the government has made significant efforts to create a work-based economy. On the basis of the tax legislation that will be adopted tomorrow, the good measures of the programme for the protection of jobs will remain next year and will be further extended. Dear fellow Members, The amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee? in addition to a number of clarifications - include the deletion of the section on the extension of the telecommunications tax contained in the original bill. In addition, the proposal also contains some minor but important clarifications that can help some economic operators. These include, for example, the provision for small craft manufacturers, which exempts the VAT on natural packaging materials used in the production of such products. The amending proposal also clarifies the administrative conditions for setting advertising tax so as to minimise the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's aim in 2015 is to keep the tax burden on families, workers and businesses raised by children at a low level and to encourage the whitening of the economy. In view of all this, I would like to ask you to vote tomorrow to support the 2015 tax package. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-17-206	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have already pointed out in the main speakerial debate of tax laws that with this tax law, to be honest, there is only one thing to do: to withdraw it. This tax package contains brutal tax increases in some respects and, in this sense, an unthinkable bill with only one purpose: to satisfy the greedy sources of income of the budget, regardless of the burden on people, taxpayers. When we were preparing for the committee meeting, we still had the hope that if there were to be a pro-government amendment or a government amendment, it would meet this goal and at least draw a large part of the bill, forgetting the new tax categories that were intended to be introduced, not only for a time, but, if possible, forever, because this bill already contained a number of serious tax increases affecting people at the time of its submission. Let us start with the tax that the government proposes to increase by no less than 60 times, and this is the monitoring fee for food chains. This award seems to be a very abstract category, and it is then called a fee, as if it were not even a tax, but it is practically the rate-bearing percentage key, which is 0.1 per cent according to the laws in force, and the government of Fidesz and Fidesz intends to increase it to 6 per cent by no less than 60 times in the band system. Don't get me wrong, it's another tax on VAT. Food? as opposed to the MSZP proposal, which proposes to subtract at least 5% VAT on basic foods? It is subject to 27 per cent VAT, with a total of 33 per cent of the combined VAT and food chain monitoring fee, a basically tax category called the 6 per cent premium. Most food will be subject to such a harsh tax next year if the Parliament adopts the Fidesz government's proposal. We have also raised our word against harsh changes and increases in the taxation of cafeteria, and we have also discovered a number of other delicacies along with analysts. It is quite amazing what Fidesz remembers about the fact that when it comes to taxing, it does not pass on soap, shampoo, and paper. And as we have already indicated, Fidesz has lost its freedom fight with brandy, and now the brandy will also be a taxable product. But if they're thinking about brandy in the tax department, they didn't stop, and with the extension of the chip tax, basically, the chip tax was extended to alcohol in general. We were hoping that this package of laws would be withdrawn, or at least an amendment would be tabled? What if they even turn you in? Which, apart from the Internet that they were forced to withdraw, we hope, once and for all? In addition, a number of other taxes, which we have challenged by analysts, are being excluded from the bill by professional organisations. That is not what happened, on the contrary, new tax races have come to the mind of the government. The circumstances of the committee meeting itself were scandalous. Ladies and gentlemen. It is quite simply impossible in any country and in Hungary to create laws, including tax laws, so unpredictablely that it is almost impossible to recognize the version submitted. It is becoming a common practice in the case of Fidesz to add to a bill a package of amendments which is at least as extensive as the original package of laws; this is what has happened now. The fact that they were able to come up with this 150-page amendment package a few hours before the committee meeting is more than outrageous. By the way, I would like to point out that the solution is not that Members will be given a day's notice so that they can at least read it, the solution is that the government does not fundamentally rewrite a bill that has been tabled. This should also be a general condition of predictability in Hungary. Foam on the cake, that among the new taxes to be introduced, we can again experience that those who do not like Fidesz will suffer another tax or tax increase, who pleases Fidesz, will somehow defend it; this is what has happened now. By extending the tobacco tax, raising the tobacco tax, they put everyone in a difficult position, except for the tobacco company that had previously been known to maintain close relations with John Lazarus. So if you're a buddy, then that company is saved from Fidesz's tax drive if you're not a buddy, but you're not particularly fond of the government, because you're making objective news instead of biased pro-government news, and you're being punished for the way it happened with the expansion of the ad tax and the re-scratching of the RTL Club. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. This practice, this method, is as scandalous as the content of the proposals and amendments tabled is scandalous. Since neither the form nor the content is acceptable to us, we still demand that this bill be withdrawn by the government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-17-208	Thank you very much. Here comes Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik. Here you go. [[17.40]]
u2014-11-17-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The tax package before us - can we all say that? He has a very big winner, and among other things, he has a big loser. The biggest winner is clearly one person, we're talking about Andy Vajna. Is it quite clear that for some reason the tax package is starring him specifically for this? To make sense of what I mean? It's a little prehistory. I would ask you to briefly outline this, although it does not belong specifically and closely to this tax law, the only reason we can really appreciate the glow of his lucky star is if we look at the last one year and see what all benefits and benefits have already been given to him by the Orbán government, which has claimed to be national and Christian. It started in December 2013, didn't it, in just one day, that the House accepted the concession fee to be deducted from the toy tax. By doing so, he, Andy Vajna, saved 1.6 billion forints for his only casino, and won the award for the concession of all five casinos in Pest County and Budapest in May 2014. So that's what it's based on? if the previous calculation is multiplied? What we need to see is that it's already worth 8 billion forints. Soon, in 2014, these concession contracts were signed, and the concession fee was suddenly exempt from VAT, adding Andy Vajna to hundreds of millions more. And now, from the bill before us, we can see that online casinos are allowed by the government in Hungary. I don't really understand what your social usefulness is, why you have to do it now. Is it possible for the Hungarian society to think that we have other things to do, that we have no problems, that we have no problems, that we have to waste our money in online casinos? And all of this on the market? which is estimated at about a hundred billion by skilled professionals, isn't it? We're giving you a generous and noble gesture to Andy Vajna. Why does the government do this? So, basically, a market of the magnitude comparable to extraordinary government measures or the National Defense Fund for an offshore knight, let's not say you're organizing him as an offshore terminator. Wouldn't the Hungarian State need this revenue, this market? Don't we have Gambling Zrt. to do this task maybe? If it's so necessary for the government? Is that where you're gonna put it? Why did this man have to be preferred in this way? What does Andy Vajna know about government? What does Andy Vajna know about the leaders of Fidesz, that you are so generous to one man? Not to mention that? Speaking of offshore? The fact that it is also included in this tax package is that the operation of the online casino is possible only in such a way that it must be a transparent organisation, or that the government also gives the government the opportunity to pass on this possibility to another third party which has already been granted the concession law of the casino. In English: this offshore terminator? who, we know, has no company or business registered in Hungary, is only interested in the Netherlands Antilles or Curaçao, whether as a feb member or as a board member? So this man can even thus clear the proceeds from online casinoing. What about one of the State Secretarys of the Ministry of National Economy? Not András Tállai - I got into an argument that the government was supporting the offshore knights, so he asked me back, but who I should name. I'll name it now: yes, I was talking about Andy Vajna. What is the reason for this? This is our fundamental and primary question. But to return to the great loser mentioned in my speech, let's talk a little bit about local governments in the ranks of losers. By introducing the municipal tax, does that also mean that? Do we now know from the draft budget law that lies before us? That you will abandon the entire municipal sector, along with its social problems, because the intensity of housing, regular social assistance and FHT support is severely reduced? practically the first two will be taken away, all the aid that has been given to the municipalities so far from these two forms of support, will they be taken away in its entirety? In this way, we must say that all social problems, the solution to them, will fall on the hands of the municipalities. And the municipal tax that may be introduced to trigger this will be a much greater burden and more acute problem than the Internet tax, which we have heard so many times in the media, and it has been discussed so many times in this House. But you, as opposed to other local taxes? Act C of 1994 will the municipal tax be explained in your terms? While all other local taxes, for example, have been subject to tax caps, there is no tax ceiling for municipal taxes. Why? Because this will be a much greater burden per household than, say, the Internet tax per 700 HUF subscription. The Secretary of State? Am I thinking of András Tallai now? a rather unique, let's just say, with peripheral self-consciousness, the other day, he taught the entire opposition that we have no idea what responsibility it is for someone to think about the balance of the entire state's budget. And I think that the Secretary of State has no idea what the introduction of a municipal tax might mean in the life of a settlement, together with, at the same time, drastic cuts in social support, virtually taking it away from the municipalities. In short, it will mean that the pensioner will pay the tax from which the municipality will be able to pay social aid. Is this socially beneficial? Is this a fair system, which you are introducing here? But in order to ensure that this weapon, which, by the way, is put into the hands of the local governments, cannot be used against you, in Hungarian against the state, you are here, according to the summary proposal, yes, this is the only clause you are making? Otherwise, no other terms, exemptions, discounts, tax caps are set in the bill, just this one? that it cannot be introduced against the State. Why? What are you afraid of, Mr. Secretary? Is it from the fact that the municipalities will also levy taxes that the state owns and the possibility of granting subsidies that you will not be able to provide through the municipal aid system, or will you be able to replace them? So? As we originally and previously called the government's attention to this? These two, which we think are extremely controversial, should be taken out of the tax package, and we can continue to maintain this, and we can say that these two parts should be deleted. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-210	Thank you very much. Next up is Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The debate on the budget and, in particular, the amendment of tax laws, is the moment of truth every year, because it is clear in black and white where the government takes and where it gives, punishes and supports. [[17.50]] This would be the moment when, as opposition representatives, an opinion on the government's social and economic policy could be formed. We'd be lucky to have this conversation here in Parliament. This year's tax amendment? Like the last few years? desperate cash flow. While Hungary is supposed to perform better, Fidesz taxes everything it can. Meanwhile, it does not bother him that he is pushing millions of Hungarians into poverty. This hastening and crafting is taking place until the very last minute, as, after the submission of the bill, important changes have been made to the House in the form of fidesz amendments. The result of this craftsmanship was the announcement of the Internet tax and its temporary ice. I'm asking you to put me off this plan for good and don't spend unnecessary billions on a consultation that actually took place on the streets. The upper key of the ad tax called RTL tax was quickly raised to 50 percent. All we can think about is that you write tax laws by watching the news, and if you don't like it, you're gonna get a face. Raising the tax on cafeteria and then receding by introducing the exempt fraction reflects the same rush. But we would like to remind you once again that the tax on cafeteria is the taxation of the poor, so no increase is acceptable, and we even suggested that the internet subscription be part of such a discount package. The only positive part of the past few weeks of crafting was perhaps the removal of craft products, micro-enterprises and organic cosmetics from the scope of the product fee. In a hurry, of course, they did not even have time to consider opposition proposals. This is the only thing I can attribute to the fact that most of our proposed amendments have been swept from the hip. We wanted to spend 1 percent of the environmental product prize, up to HUF 500 million, on supporting civil society organisations with environmental tasks. This would be very necessary because the environmental performance has deteriorated significantly. Similarly, the exception of recycled paper from the environmental product fee was rejected, which is obviously absurd. Even though we indicated that the increase in the tax on alcoholic beverages would drain many, many family cash registers, the planned increase was left unchanged. However, quality brandy, which is the drink of the rich, is not expensive. We will also decide tomorrow on LMP amendments, and I ask you to support them. They would help difficult families and give a strong boost to the economy. We are launching a complete withdrawal of the tax increases planned in the area of cafeteria. Today, when a million people, about a quarter of the workers, do not earn a minimum living, that would be the minimum that the government would expect. And allow internet costs to be included in this allowance. Prove to me that not only the wealthy are important to you and take action against the permanent division of society. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-17-212	Thank you very much. It is now for Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member. You have two minutes, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-17-213	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We'll tax whoever gets in our way. This is how the Fidesz government started when it adopted its first tax laws in 2010. After all, that's the whole point of Fidesz' tax policy, the policy of special taxes. For five years now, the Fidesz government has been collecting taxes. The purpose of the special taxes is punishment and fraud. Punishment for those who are not at the Fidesz moonyard, former selected banks, telecom companies, today selected commercial TVs and food chains. It's a hoax for people. Why? Because no one can believe that the increased TV tax, the food chain inspection fee or the shampoo tax will not be in people's pockets. Because this system is unpredictable, deeply anticompetitive, job and growth. And it's bad for everyone. 'Cause the Internet tax has blown off, and people understand that the government does intervene in their daily lives, in their freedom, but it does limit their lives. That is why there are thousands and thousands of people on the street all over Hungary and in many cities of Europe. People understood that Fidesz taxes are not only bad for companies and traders, but for all Hungarian people. In the last four years, Fidesz has introduced 40 taxes, and now at least 9 new taxes are rising. This is how Viktor Orbán deals with his voters. It's amazing in a country where the head of the IRS is involved in a serious corruption suspicion, where there's slumbering instead of public investigations. This tax law is unacceptable in all its tastes because it is false, because it is crawling into people's lives, and it continues to torment those who have the least. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-214	Thank you very much, and also for your punctuality. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Congressman László Kiss, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's been a lot going on here, and we've seen that this tax law that's in front of us is everything, but it's not a school example of lawmaking. We have, of course, been accustomed to the fact that we do not receive any meaningful reaction in the legislative process or in the debates, but it is indeed unparalleled that in many cases you too are forced to withdraw the laws that have been drawn up in a quaint way. Of course, even though you were forced to withdraw in some cases, for someone who knows you and knows you well, you must not think for a moment that the world of the Internet is safe from you, that the cafeteria is safe from you, that the average person on the street does not believe for a minute what you say. It is enough that you think back to what you said a few weeks ago in the debate on the Internet tax, because now the words that you have said with a rather pompous voice are saying that this tax is indeed being introduced, and indeed the protestors who do not want to do so are who they really are. However, tax is an important issue, since in a normal country a normal government does not use tax as a weapon, taxation does not go according to the convenience of the governing party at all, it is not a revolver, it is not a club. Compared to this, one of your critical television stations, the RTL Club's advertising tax has been raised from 40 percent to 50 percent. In itself, the position of the MSZP is, not from the devil, that there is a tax on advertising, not from the devil, to increase the level of this, but interestingly, you have managed to create a regulation that is only true of a medium by means of an amendment. If you really believe that this tax should be raised, if you really had arguments that were not said in any forum, then you would not only create rules for this one medium, but also for all media such as the Hungarian Nation or even News TV. However, this is not the case. Please stop this legislation and withdraw the tax laws. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-216	Once again, I would like to ask you if someone would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] He doesn't want to live. In that case, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. Mr Tállai, the Secretary of State, as I mentioned earlier, has a maximum of 10 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the Commission rapporteurs for their views and comments, of course, for the contributions of the pro-government and opposition representatives. We have actually learned a lot of interesting things from the opposition speeches, and a lot of this has already been said in the general debate. One or two of them were just: this draft tax law was drawn up in haste; there was no meaningful reaction to the arguments I doubt, there was quite a serious debate here in Parliament during the general debate; then we also learned how the tax on local governments, which had not yet been introduced, would be a heavy burden for people; but the main thing that all speakers had to say was ultimately that we should withdraw this draft tax law. [[18.00]] I cannot promise that to the honourable opposition representatives. As I recall, this has not been the case since the change of regime, and this debate will not be able to be withdrawn at your request. But if you think about it, many opposition speeches, if that's what you like, have been amended by the tax law submitted. I'd just like to say two things: the Internet guy? As you say? And the reform of the cafeteria system will not be implemented in the way the government originally wanted. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to talk about the bill as a general closing point. According to the Ministry and the government, Hungary's tax system can guarantee financial stability, social security and economic growth. The family is the first for the government in 2015. Therefore, the tax law keeps the burden on children, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises at a low level. All of this? in line with the objectives set out at the time of submission? the proposal for approval has remained an important element. As a step following the introduction of a single-key, proportional income tax, the government also initiated a reform of the system of public burdens on non-wage benefits. We want people to get free money and not strapped benefits. Given the increasing pressure on income, it is appropriate to increase the share of benefits in money over the longer term. The tax advantage of vouchers will remain next year, but the structure of the beneficiary benefits will be slightly changed. In 2015, up to an annual envelope of HUF 200,000, an extra-wage allowance such as the Erzsébet voucher, the school start-up allowance or the employer's contribution to self-care can be paid at the same rate as this year, i.e. 35.7 per cent of the public burden. Over this framework, for an additional HUF 250 thousand, support can be provided in the three pockets of the SZÉP card with the same load. The rate of tax increases to 51,1 per cent only in the case of benefits of a different scale and form. Dear Parliament, Changes to company taxation include reorganisations for harmonisation purposes in accordance with EU regulations and directives without changing their concepts. The amendment to the strict rules on the use of demarcated losses clarifies the duration of the application in the light of the whitening of the economy. The amending proposal also ensures that the tax base reduction for R &amp; D activities remains unchanged, i.e. it can be used without prior qualification of professional authority. We continue to follow the line that all economic operators must take their share of public burdens. The bill continues to maintain the bank tax unchanged and in moderation, while the amendment introduces and sets out the details of the new special tax on distributors and investment funds. In local taxes, a minor change to state aid and compliance with EU law is set out in the motion submitted to the Legislative Committee. In addition, the central treasury database containing local tax information will be added to the municipal tax data that can be introduced from 2015, thus helping taxpayers to find out more. Compared to the bill, the telecoms special tax is changing, which we do not extend to internet-based phone calls. In the advertising tax, the motion of the Legislative Committee provides for a change which significantly reduces the tax administration that facilitates compliance with tax liability. The advertising tax law allows honest advertising publishers to request their registration in a register maintained by the State tax authority, which includes a range of properly performing advertising tax obligations. The advertising tax entity listed in this register is not obliged to provide a declaration or to ask for a declaration by its customer and is therefore not obliged to pay a 20% advertising tax. According to the motion, if the advertiser doesn't appear in the state tax records and doesn't make a statement? And the customer asked for it in a justified manner? , the advertiser is not at a disadvantage and does not have to pay the 20 per cent advertising tax. Another important change in advertising tax was also proposed by the Legislative Committee. Its proposal increases the rate of 40 per cent in the upper tax range above HUF 20 billion to 50 per cent. The experience of the advertising tax has shown that the burden-bearing capacity of taxpayers in the top lane is stronger due to significant turnover. Only large operators are affected by the increase, not the smaller ones. This was initiated by the author in the interest of proportionate public burdens. Dear House, The Government supports an amending proposal that states that the State tax and customs authorities should not impose a default penalty for non-compliance with the notification obligation relating to the road traffic control system for 15 days from the start of the system, i.e. until 15 January 2015. The Government supports the proposal to fix only the highest official price at the price of the service provided to operators of online cash registers. This will allow competition between online service providers, which could also lead to a reduction in current fixed prices. The Government also supports the proposed amendment on the basis of which damage caused by the situation in Ukraine can be compensated more widely through the tax system. Ladies and gentlemen, As the management of certain insurance asset funds can be related to the current generalised tax-free portfolio management, the government has supported the proposal to allow the management of insurance asset funds to continue to be VAT-free in order to ensure uniform treatment of these forms. Dear Parliament, With regard to our tax system as a whole, I can say that by adopting the bill, we are in favour of the stability that both people and businesses need. We do not deviate from our principles in this area either, because in recent years it has become certain that we can follow this path to achieve the necessary financial stability, preserve the momentum of economic growth and create a secure livelihood for families. Accordingly, the adoption of the bill means that small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary will continue to have low corporate tax, improved economic environment and a whitening economy, and families will have a family tax system and increased benefits. Thank you very much for your attention. Please press the "yes" button for tomorrow's vote. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-17-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As has just been said by the Secretary of State, I would like to say that the votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the submission of the declarations provided for in the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender procedure between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway follows. The submission was made in T/1762. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the designated Judicial Committee on a detailed debate T/1762/2. was given to them. The Commission's amendment, which concluded no detailed debate, was not submitted to the present proposal, nor was it initiated by the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No.]] No. Accordingly, of course, at the end of the debate, there is a way for Mr State Secretary to give his opinion. [[18.10]] I will ask if the designated Judicial Committee wishes to set up a rapporteur. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. In this case, Honourable Parliament, the speeches will follow, in the time frame on the agenda. You can see the timeframes on the projection boards. As the speaker announced in advance, I would like to give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As it appears, no new information on the proposal has been raised, and the Socialist Party has already explained in the general debate that it supports the conclusion of the Convention, given that it is a matter of ratification of a convention that has been concluded for quite a long time. I therefore believe that there is no reason to change this position now, and I hereby reiterate that the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the conclusion of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-220	Thank you very much. I don't see any more names on the monitor. I'm just gonna ask if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a commentary like that anymore. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to speak. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No.]] He doesn't want to. In that case, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. The final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting, between the decisions. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related legislation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The submission was made in T/1707. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the designated Judicial Committee on a detailed debate T/1707/15. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1707/17. T/1707/18. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 15 minutes in the time frame, 7 minutes in the opinion of the minority. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-221	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 12 November 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2013 CCXL on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement detention. T/1707 on the amendment of Act T/1707 and related other laws Bill No. 1. The proposal was submitted with the aim of ensuring consistency in content and form between prison law and the prison law. The proposal also aims to bring about a smaller or greater correction of the implementing legislation, based on the experience of law enforcement in recent years. During the Committee meeting, the members held a debate on the proposed amendment of the Judicial Committee, supported by 22 votes in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions, with the exception of points 3, 7, 13, 26 and 30. The points not supported by the Committee will be further clarified in codification. In addition to the resolution on the proposed amendments, the Legislative Committee expressed an intention to amend further, given that the proposal is implementing a technical amendment resulting from the introduction of a new legal institution, reintegration detention. The members voted separately on these points, which were supported by 22 yes, 6 no and 3 abstentions. The Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report by 22 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept the bill.
u2014-11-17-222	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy for the presentation of the minority opinion. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I do not want to go deeper into the content issues because it was only part of the committee meeting. The most serious problem at the committee meeting was the fact that this bill has been brought back to Parliament for a very long time because of grammatical, linguistic and codification problems. We have also raised the point that such codification errors have been the predecessors of this proposal. And in itself, one for the new Bv codex? Let me put it this way. a rather large draft amendment had to be submitted, which effectively addressed the codification problems, and some of the Committee's fractions or members were declared unacceptable in themselves. Did I say anything about that? And I think that this is what the Commission's debate deserves the most seriously? that the amendment proposed by the amending proposal was intended to be amended once again at the Legislative Committee meeting, largely with the substance distributed on the spot. Well, Honourable Parliament, I am speaking to you now, which I said back then, that this is not an acceptable legislative agenda. Speaker László Kövér said at the inaugural meeting of the Legislative Committee that he could not accept this type of legislative method or timetable, regretting that this was the case in the past, but certainly will not be the case in the future. Compared to this, opposition representatives see that nothing has changed in the burning world. The fact that the government does not normally comply with the obligations of conciliation when submitting legislation is unfortunately required as a bad practice; we do not accept, but accept that this is the case. However, the fact that a piece of legislation such as the new prison law is so unprepared for codification in this House that it must be corrected by dozens of proposals amending it, not in one round, but in five rounds, is quite simply unacceptable. We have said and I say now that this is not better legislation, this is a disgrace to the Ministry of Justice. The Secretary of State said and rejected this by saying that the preparation of this proposal was largely carried out by the previous government, not by the previous Orbán government, but by the previous socialist government. Mr Secretary of State, I am saying now, as we said in the Commission debate, that this is possible, and we can therefore agree with many of the content of this Code of Correction, and we can support this. But I find it quite simply grotesque that, after five years of governance, in response to criticism of codification errors, the Secretary of State of Justice points back to the codification work of a government five years earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, there may have been a draft norm text at the time, there may have been a draft concept, but how this is presented to Parliament is not the responsibility of the former government, but the responsibility of the government that presents it. And if you make it so wrong, then there is no answer to that, that five years ago, this issue was already dealt with by an earlier government. This, Mr. Secretary of State, is your responsibility and your fault. The fact that you cannot and cannot codify, therefore, is a very eloquent example of this amending proposal. This may have been the biggest debate on the Legislative Committee. As regards the content issues, my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó will talk about it in his speech. However, I would like to put it on the table here once again so that the government can think about whether it will conduct social and professional discussions properly. It is not by accident that legislation or law requires that this should be done, because not only does it hinder a person in the great legislative momentum by sending his proposal to others for an opinion, but professional organisations may also be able to offer good ideas. [[18.20]] I would also specifically ask the present Secretary of State representing the Ministry of Justice to submit legislative proposals when they have been able to prepare them properly. The Parliament's task is not to correct codification, technical errors, and dozens of them, but to introduce any political issues that may have been raised here into the law. The legislator's task is not to carry out the technical task of codification, but to establish a political opinion on the legislative proposals submitted, and, if this is different from the standard text submitted, of course, it will guide this. And of course, it is also his job to correct some minor errors in codification. But, Mr. Secretary of State, it is not possible for the government to regard Parliament as its codification background apparatus. 'Cause that's what it looks like in this round, this bill. When the Parliament has to correct legislative inaccuracies in the fifth round, I think that you misinterpret your role, misinterpret the task of your own apparatus, and misinterpret the role of Parliament. It is neither the plenary session nor the Legislative Committee's task to correct your messed-up, slendrian work. I strongly recommend this shift to the Justice Department. Now there's a minister at the head of who I think is a serious lawyer, maybe he'll have some influence to make things go differently in the future. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-17-224	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] He won't say anything. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the designated Judicial Committee wishes to set up a rapporteur. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. In this case, the speeches will now take place in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. And you'll be able to see the time frame on the displays? You can see it now. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, this bill is not new to the House, as we have already said in this debate last year, and we have drawn attention in advance to the fact that such a wide proposal cannot be adopted in Parliament in its death, and it would take time and patience to adopt such a code, carefully thought out and professionally prepared. At that time, we presented only one amendment to the law, which I also called forward-looking from the point of view of content in the speech, and indeed this code of law has replaced a regulation that has been exemplary in Hungary in recent years or decades. Because of the lack of preparation of the bill, and more importantly, perhaps? Is this the only time we're gonna find out after it comes into force? , the material and other instruments necessary for its entry into force are not visible, there is no law prepared in this respect, and we have therefore asked that the entry into force of this law be postponed. Of course, the government and the pro-government majority swung down on us, not a year has passed, and look at the miracle, here we are, that this law will be renegotiated by the Parliament before its entry into force. In fact, not only does it renegotiate, but in the paragraphs and otherwise in the scope of the amendment, two thirds of the proposal will need to be touched before it enters into force. In the explanatory statement, the government itself says that this is necessary because there have been professional discussions in the past period, which we can congratulate specifically on the fact that after the adoption of the law they managed to hold professional meetings and discussions. We are convinced that, both in the judicial field and in the field of justice, and in the field of prison execution, Hungary is abundant in professionals with adequate professional skills, with whom the government could have dealt with these problems in advance. Unfortunately, we still have this problem and our concern about the current legislative proposal. Therefore, we have just tabled an amendment that we unfortunately did not see the government admit and support, which will answer the question at systemic level whether the enforcement organisation is prepared for the entry into force of the bill, whether justice is prepared, and not in the days and weeks after its entry into force, the government will have to run back to Parliament to find out what mistakes it has made. We have two suggestions. One is that the government will submit a clear concept and implementation plan by March, until the spring session, which clearly indicates what means it will assign to it; understand well that it will assign a material and physical tool system to implement this law. On the other hand, after the government today claims that although the government's current promises do not have too much weight, it shows that it can't keep what it promises for a day, but today it promises that from next June there will be a 30 percent increase in the law enforcement field. And that would affect the prison staff, so we ask and recommend that this law should enter into force only after this wage increase. After all, this bill will place a great deal of additional tasks on those Bv workers who, even within law enforcement agencies today, work under the most humiliating and desperate conditions, both financially and physically. Therefore, once again, we would like to argue that we should accept our proposals for amendment, which, in addition to the entry into force of the law, makes clear what additional resources the government is putting in place for the implementation of this law, which, without any additional resources in itself, may only cause further problems. And you're as urgent as you are one day and the next, you can bring about laws that we've seen in relation to escaped convicts, or any other matter in which the country is rightfully outraged. We're warning you now, it's time for this, not later. One. Two. We would also like to ask that the law enter into force later on so that the additional system of tasks that are placed in the neck of colleagues working in the field of punishment without any compensation in the law is given to them only after their wages have been settled. And so it can be clear to them that their livelihoods and their families' livelihoods, because we're talking about this, it doesn't depend on how much overtime they spend in which month, as they say, or if they drive their guts out, so that they can pay their children's lunches or buy them clothes, because that's pretty much the case in their situation. In such a situation, there is no moral and legal basis for the government to impose additional duties on these people. Otherwise, I will record it once again, as before, we will abstain, because the spirit of the law and the direction of the amendment proposal are basically a step in the right direction, but because of the lack of conditions, we cannot support the law with our vote in favour, because the terms of its entry into force are not considered to be valid. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-17-226	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-227	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There have been many lessons to be learned from what I have been told before. And while I agree with a few things, and I am going to explain this, I would like to point out that I think it is quite a problem if the MSZP commends the way in which it is prepared, and points out that the draft has been drawn up at the time of the MSZP government, which has set the line for the new Bv law. Is this a problem not only because we would see a bogeyman in the MSZP and they couldn't solve public safety problems, but also that the direction they think is right? And I'm sorry that the current Fidesz government accepted this without criticism? It's not good, and it's not gonna solve our current prison problems. [[18.30]] The problem is that you believe in a western or Northern European type of prison, but public security in Hungary is increasingly taking Eastern trends, is it getting worse and the state is unable? especially in certain parts of the country, especially in the eastern part of the country? guaranteeing the property and personal security of citizens. If we are talking about the Bv system, is the Bv system a key element of public safety, since that's what we're starting with? And that's the main concept we disagree with? That everyone who goes to prison wants to get better, wants to change, that basically we're going in the wrong direction. There's a part, yes, who wants to change. They need all the help they can get. After all, we can also see that over the past few decades or decades, who really wanted to change their lifestyle after they got out of prison, they didn't get much help. That's true, and that needs to be changed. But to get on the other side of the horse, from this point on, we consider that everyone who has entered the prison, if they come out, is seeking change, that is quite simply wrong thinking. There are many who go in there knowing that if they come out, they will continue from where they left off at the time of their arrest, and indeed to them, for them, the prison must have a deterrent effect, so we believe that the deterrent force must also appear. We have, of course, debated this a lot during the introduction of the Bv Act, and I would not repeat the whole debate. However, I must agree with what has been said before me, that it should indeed be said that the wages of captors and prison guards are unacceptablely low, and that the introduction of a career model would be very urgent here too. I visited a lot of bv institutions and even talked to prisoners, with the commanders and simple bv guards; the leaders said that it was a very big problem that people could not be held there, where appropriate, by earning more than a multi-level cashier, and there at least they did not have to risk their lives, because in many cases even those who stand as prison guards risk their lives. So we can agree on that, and I ask you to urge Mr. Secretary of State? As much as possible? the settlement of the situation, both by solving the career model and the associated wage increase. But what has not been mentioned and is a very important element of this proposal is the actual life sentence. I am surprised that the MSZPs before me did not tell me, because, in fact, this proposal contains the abolition of the actual life sentence, although you deny it. But what should we call a system for which every two years after 40 years there is an automatic override of judgments; and in this connection, it is not enough that a request for mercy be launched every two years, but rather? And here the emphasis is on two years? Does it seem to anyone who reads this proposal as if the goal was to sooner or later get out of prison the perpetrators most of the time? quite rightly - you have been sentenced to a life sentence. Do I have to say that again? because it was also said in the general debate? that, indeed, Fidesz campaigned in the spring to vote for their MEPs because they want to protect the institution of the actual life sentence. How does that come about to the European Parliament? Didn't the European Parliament decide that we should abolish this, rather than look for the cause of our trouble towards the Council of Europe? May I put it this way? But the point is that the political message was also from Viktor Orbán's side that they were in favour of the actual life sentence, but unfortunately they did not do so. By the way, do I have to add that we were in Pécs last week to invite you to law school there? Did our colleague, Gergely Bárándy, and our colleague Schiffer, who is not present, come? And I am very sorry that the Secretary of State could not accept this invitation. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert points to the floor of the Chamber.]] Yes, Mr. Secretary of State may have been here, but unfortunately, I am afraid that the Ministry or Fidesz could have sent a man who could have represented the subject politically, because by sending away a judge assigned to the Ministry, I do not think that you have the political authority to hold a proper political debate on this subject. By the way, the debate was very interesting and meaningful. Obviously, the people in attendance have screened the Fidesz Party's absence. I think it would have been better if we had been able to hold these debates either on this occasion or before, or even in the future. But the point is: I think that the Hungarian public security situation and the serious crimes that have been committed here recently make it almost the duty of the responsible decision-makers and legislators to protect society from these perpetrators. And yes, if the question arises whether hope can be taken away from the perpetrators? and here we are talking about the most serious perpetrators, because this was the main point in Strasbourg that it was not possible to take hope away from someone, but we disagree with that. For example, a person who can kill a small child or even commit multiple murders to harm elderly people, in their case, we do believe that hope can be drawn away, and that may be a deterrent in the future. But should we at least get there? And this is the main message? That you, too, say that with this decision, this amendment, you will abolish the actual life sentence, because in government communication, it has shown that it will be retained. I have to say no, and with this, Gergely Bárándy also agreed, if I remember correctly, that this proposal actually eliminates the actual life sentence that is currently included in Hungarian legislation. So I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to allow the Ministry to become an appropriate partner in social or even legal discussions in the future and, more importantly, not to mislead the public and at least to take on their opinions. If this proposal is accepted by the Parliament, then the institution of actual life imprisonment will cease. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-228	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone still wants to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. In that case, the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] Mr. Robert Répássy, Secretary of State, please.
u2014-11-17-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fortunately, I have the opportunity to speak in the debate for many times now, so we are well aware of each other's positions, but with the help of my colleagues, I endeavoured to conclude the debate, so at the end of the debate, to sum up our position on the amendments, which were partly affected during the Commission's hearing and, in part, now, by the Members. By submitting the bill, the government had a dual goal. On the one hand, the related laws had to be adapted to the novelties of the new Code of Correction. About? If I'm counting right? 22 laws are related to this bill, thus ensuring the coherence of the legal system. On the other hand, it was intended that the new provisions introduced by the bill would facilitate the work of law enforcement professionals, and that the comments and proposals of practitioners in practice should be included in the legislation so as to ensure compliance with international requirements at the same time. The bill received 12 amendments during the in-depth debate, and the amendment closing the detailed debate of the Committee on Justice of the Parliament was also tabled and a proposal for an amendment to the Legislative Committee was submitted. [[18.40]] First of all, I would like to address the amendments to the Judicial Committee closing a detailed debate, which correct smaller, essentially grammatical and editorial errors, and correct comma errors and errors. I would like to note that this has emerged several times in the course of the debate as to why so many points, so much of the original bill, need to be amended. The Committees of Parliament now continue the practice that even a comma, a point, can be corrected only in the form of an amendment. Earlier, it would have been possible to change texts and clarify errors in a simpler way. Here, as I said, most of these amendments tabled by the Judicial Committee are also simply correction of errors. However, there is, of course, a substantive change. Point 17 states that, in the case of a preliminary arrest, the application must be lodged with the prosecutor. Point 19 lists the cases in which a decision may be taken on the basis of documents and states that a court secretary may not act. Point 24 lays down as the main rule that a court secretary may act only in cases where it is not prohibited by law. The majority of the legislative committee's amendments are also technical additions to the institution of reintegration detention. Points 1, 4, 5, 8 and 9 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment contain substantive additions and amendments to the introduction of reintegration detention. Here, the conditions for ordering reintegration detention are redefined by the Legislative Committee's proposal, restricting the possibility of re-integration detention, and laying down guarantee elements for the application of reintegration detention, such as the minimum that the sentenced person must download prior to reintegration detention. Point 3 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment concerns the recognition of the European Protection Order. We discussed this with Congressman Staudt at the committee meeting. The proposal provides for an opportunity to appeal against a decision on the recognition and enforcement of a European protection order. It is necessary to mention here that Mr Staudt has proposed that the possibility of redress should be not only against the decision to recognise and enforce the European protection order, but also against the decision to refuse recognition and enforcement. We cannot support this proposal because denial is only possible for specific reasons, for example, the act on which the European Protection Order is based is not a criminal offence under the Hungarian law, or it was committed in whole or in part in the territory of Hungary. Therefore, a taxative whose existence does not depend on judicial discretion can be refused for specific reasons. It is not appropriate to provide for an appeal against such a decision. With regard to the 12 amendments tabled to the bill, I would just like to briefly mention the proposals which have been mentioned by the Members. Gergely Bárándy and Tamás Harangozó T/1707/10. With its amendment No 13, the entry into force of the law, more specifically the entry into force of the Penalty Act, is to be postponed. Here I would like to return to the debate that Gergely Bárándy and Mr Harangozó have advanced on how the law on the enforcement of sentences adopted in 2013 was prepared. I would like to quote Gergely Bárándy and Tamás Harangozó from the general debate on the bv code on 27 November 2013. Mr Gergely Bárándy says, among other things, that I am pleased that the government has also taken into account what preparatory work has been done so far, not only during this government cycle, but also during previous government cycles on this subject. He took into account that there was a draft in 2004, and then, if I remember correctly, 2007 or 2008. The results of this were incorporated into the Code of Conduct. Mr Bárándy says that the bill came before the House as a result of a more serious process of professional preparation. And Tamás Bellozó praised the bill in this way? I can't say any other words? , he praised:. The purpose of the bill is clearly not to serve the Fidesz propaganda machine, but to serve a.... [[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] It's not mine, it's ringing. I quote again: the purpose of the bill is clearly not to serve the Fidesz propaganda machine, but to provide a professional basis, XXI. It was the creation of a Code of Penalty that met the requirements of the century. This effort should be recognised by the experts involved in the preparation, and, as my fellow Member, Mr Barándy has already pointed out, the Ministry of Administration and Justice relied heavily on the draft laws and professional proposals prepared during the previous government cycle. And after that, he basically calls the bill progressive and the rest. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's right!]] So, in essence, Mr Harangozó and Mr Barándy praised the bill for a long time, the quality of the government's building on the preparatory work of socialist governments in 2013. It was therefore completely incomprehensible why they were proposing that the prison law should not enter into force, since the preparation had been carried out for several years, with the involvement of professional and civil society organisations having been continuously preparing for several years the decree on the enforcement of penalties which had been necessary for a long time to be renewed. Indeed, this work was completed in 2013 and in 2013 the government presented the proposal to the Parliament. So I felt unfair about the criticism that the Socialist Members threw up on us about the preparation of the law. True, they could not give a single example of errors, one argument being that too many amendments had to be made to the bill. But I have just told you that most of these legislative proposals have been a clarification of errors, or amendments to new legal institutions, such as reintegration detention, were intended to be clarified. The Legislative Committee therefore improved the bill in any case, and the amendment did not serve to justify the criticism that this law could not enter into force. In this bill, however, to ask whether there are conditions for the entry into force of the new Bv Code, this is, of course, not professionally correct, because we all know that the costs associated with its entry into force must be ensured in the Finance Act, the chapter of BM. I trust that Parliament will adopt a budget that will ensure the entry into force of the new bv code without delay after one year of preparation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-17-230	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, A summary report on the amendment of certain laws relating to judicial and private law and a discussion of the summary amendment with a derogation from the house rule follow. The submission was made in T/1929. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1929/3. and the summary report is T/1929/4. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. Before I give the floor to Mr László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee, I will ask if anyone wishes to present the minority opinion. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. In this case, I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr László Vécsey. The maximum available time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go. [[18.50]]
u2014-11-17-231	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, [[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] Phone clicking...
u2014-11-17-232	Congressman, don't disturb yourself, tell us the committee's position, we can handle this much confusion.
u2014-11-17-233	I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee on 13 November 2014 is T/1929 on the amendment of certain laws on judicial and private law matters. The Committee discussed the legislative proposal submitted by the Committee with 25 votes in favour, no votes in favour and 7 abstentions, and presented an amendment and a summary report. The summarised amendment contained only and all of the committee's text-focusing proposals, and this motion was supported by the committee as a whole from the voting rate, there was no opposition or opposition in this respect, and even statements of opposition were made in respect of the whole of the law. Is the most important and interesting element of the law amendment? I guess you could say that? Article 3 I had an episode. This is 3. § was a summary of the amendments made in connection with the implementation procedure, and this amendment was fundamentally justified by the long-standing and very high social need. This also justified interest. Most comments were made in this regard within the Committee. Rethinking the rules on a truly timely enforcement procedure, but, above all, effective monitoring of the legal functioning of executives, including amendment 3. The purpose of Section 2 is to: Among other things, this bill before us provides for this possibility. Did the committee also note, among other things, that the delegation of the Minister and the establishment of a new implementation system were both on the government side and on the government side? did the opposition's comments in support come to light? On the opposition side, we consider it only a temporary state, as this new system will be a test of operation, and it will have to show in its operation how fit it is to fulfil the target set. Following the due diligence of the operation, the experience gained will be screened and the Parliament will have to settle the existing and very many contradictions and abuses permanently. There were therefore no oppositions to the whole of the law, and statements of support were also made on the opposition side, so I request the support of this House on behalf of the Legislative Committee for this amendment. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-17-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak now. Mr Répássy Róbert is the secretary of state. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to respond to two points raised during the general debate, in particular during the first-reading debate on the bill, and, if I have seen it correctly, in the form of an amendment, these matters also came back. One of the proposals was the suggestion of Congressman Dezső Believing, who suggested that the mayor's repeated malpractice and violation of the law should not fall within the jurisdiction of the court, but that the administrative labour court should consider this issue. We see and therefore have not supported the proposed amendment that the case of the termination of the mayor's employment relationship is more professionally justified than the termination of other employment relationships as a matter of labour or service dispute, and we therefore propose that it should take place before the labour court because of the legal nature of such a dispute and not fall within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. György Szilágyi, Jobbikós MEP has suggested why the suspension of the mayor's office will be included in the bill... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Is this the executive?]] Could it be...? My fellow Members say that I am speaking to the wrong bill, but I am trying to...
u2014-11-17-236	Dear Secretary of State, So, in any case, I'm going to go back to what kind of law we're talking about. There is no doubt that it is specific if it is not addressed to it, as is the law: the summary report submitted for the submission of amendments to certain laws on judicial and private law matters.
u2014-11-17-237	Mr President, I apologise, my fellow Members' comments were correct. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-238	I see. Dear Secretary of State, I'm so glad you can see from this that the opposition has [[Defiance.]] its importance and weight, and the opposition has played its role at the moment. In any case, I gave you the floor in my belief that that's what you're talking about. You agreed then to not do it, so we'll continue our work. We now have speeches from Members. I would like to inform you that you will have 5 minutes per group of Members and 3 minutes per group of independent Members. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First of all, Mr Tamás Harangozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We are pleased that we can contribute to the effective functioning of Parliament and the government with our presence and comments. As far as the bill is concerned, is this bill one of those refreshing exceptions, perhaps even the only one in this session? Of course, we are not talking about the circumstances of the submission, because the House discussed it with a derogation from the rules of the house, and we did not understand exactly what the hurry was? where, at the end of the general debate, at the end of the first-reading debate, Mr Secretary of State admitted himself, after it was almost clear from every party in the opposition that this proposal would not provide a permanent and lasting solution; therefore, Mr Secretary of State admitted that this is not a permanent and permanent solution, but a starting step in a case where tens of thousands of people are suffering from implementation and, of course, there is great dissatisfaction on the part of those seeking implementation. While there is news and concrete experience that you are the executive profession? If that's the way to say it today? acts of abuse and even dozens of violations of law, or at least those which appear to be. As far as the summary amendment is concerned, if I remember correctly, I may well remember this bill, but only text-oriented amendments were made to the committee. But we have also said that there in the debate, and I would like to say it once again here, to make it clear that we cannot make a positive contribution to the adoption of this law, even though we ourselves feel that there is a completely unsustainable state of play for the executive chamber and for the executive profession, but this solution is not the solution that we would be living with at this moment or otherwise on this issue, so we will abstain from voting the law, and I would like to say that we are also abstaining from non-voting in order to make it clear that we consider at least some way of taking an important step. Meanwhile, we have also drawn attention to a number of legal and concrete implementation problems in the debate, which, in the form of an amendment, have not been published by the government or by the government parties. Moreover, the derogation from the house rules gave almost one day's deadline for opposition parties to submit a proposal for amendment, and this did not happen on our part. But once again, we would like to draw attention to the fact that we very much hope that the temporary application of this ministerial Commissioner, as I said in the debate, is not the final solution, and we very much hope that, on the basis of the bad experience in other areas, it is not that the Government intends to use this legislative amendment proposal to map a huge multibillion-dollar market in the person of a ministerial commissioner. [[19.00]] Let us hope that it is not because of business and other considerations that you wish to give the government this type of authority in this area, but in order to eliminate abuses and lawlessness, to enforce the rules of the profession, and most importantly? And that's the most important thing? can they turn the lives of the people involved in implementation into predictable and fair procedures, and can they guarantee that this is the legal institution, which is? By the way, was Mr. Secretary correct? a very important trust institution, to be replaced in Hungary. We very much hope that by voting in favour of the bill, we will not be right about our otherwise bad assumptions, but rather that this was indeed a first step for the government, and that we will also see the bill, which is a conceptually thought-out and final solution to the House sooner or later. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-17-240	Thank you very much. Now we will have speeches asking for a normal word. First up, Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member Luke and I would like to share the speaking time frame. I am very pleased that Mr Secretary of State considers what has been presented here to be a first step, a temporary step. I find it difficult to understand the opinion of the MSZP here, because if they accept that it is better than the current system, which has been presented, or is going a little towards clarifying the situation, then they can support it. We'll support it. Not in all its elements with a good heart, I must say, Mr Secretary, since you know that we are in favour of the state system. We believe that the state should be required to carry out judicial enforcement as a public task. Compared to this, if a stricter control is exercised and a ministerial commissioner is appointed, this could, of course, be a more transparent or stricter system in the current situation, but we do not see that this would actually solve the problem. We're very confident, by the way, that you'll see that, and that's the direction you're going to take. At present, unfortunately, the system of judicial enforcement, the activity of independent judicial enforcement, is operating as an economic slaughterhouse. If you get into this, you have very little chance of getting out of this in a way that doesn't end up losing everything, completely crippled. Is it also true that in many cases? And that's a major point? The executor's fee itself prevents a settlement between the two parties, let's say, between a credit institution and the debtor. If the Secretary of State knows another system or has a legislative solution to the problem that we have repeatedly said, and I will repeat it, then tell me. We think it's the state system. It's not that we can argue the fee from anyone who has worked for it, but what if there is a claim of 20 million, which, say, the bank will lower to 15 or 10, the debtor says that it is good, I can pay it, I will sort it out, but in this case the enforcer will appear, and in accordance with the laws in force, he will say that it is true that the bank and his debtor agreed at HUF 10 million, but he will ask for his work fee and other commissions after HUF 20 million, while only HUF 10 million will be refunded, and both parties would have agreed on this. In many cases, this is why there is no agreement, and in many cases this is why the situation of debtors is much worse. Why is it that an intermediate party can intrude between the two parties, the debtor or the bank, and he can tell whether there will be an agreement or not? Think about that, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-17-242	Mr László György Lukács has the opportunity to comment. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-243	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are pleased that the government has admitted that there was a problem in the enforcement area after all. We're glad that you realize that what we've been saying for years is a real problem. We are also particularly pleased that supervision has been decided, but, as my colleague Gábor Staudt said, we are only half satisfied with this system, although we know that it will only work for a limited period of time, because it is about an experience. But we continue to say, and trust us firmly, that it would be worth the government to decide which system to vote for, it wants a hybrid system, as it has now set up a hybrid system, or it wants a fully unified system, and in this case it would be a state task to adopt implementation, because that is what is needed. So we are pleased with the supervision, and we are glad that you have thought of it, yes, a little late, the accountability of executives, because that is also very important. If this is the first step towards accountability for executives, then let us take this path, but we believe that the government can do much more in this area. The other, which has already been said in the general debate, and I have repeatedly whipped, I still do not see it, even though I was hoping that the legislative committee might be cleared up or that it would be accompanied by amendments that would clear the language that came out of EU compliance, and this is the transposition and application of the so-called EU restraining order. It is still very difficult, it is still very difficult to understand how Hungarian law transforms these obligations or regulations and directives that we would like to transpose. We have now had the pleasure of consulting a delegation about the institutions of the European Union. They don't seem to understand the extent to which to put it to the point, but the government doesn't always seem to be able to transform it. So I think what was said and what Gábor Staudt said [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Your bill is eligible, but we expect more from the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-244	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. Dear Parliament, The debate is now closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react now. [[For signal:]] Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank you again, very briefly, for the mandate that the Parliament is expected to exercise, so that the Minister of Justice can exercise his supervisory rights more thoroughly and much more thoroughly than he has done so far. In general, Members raise questions about the activities of executives which, at the moment, do not have administrative control, but have judicial control; therefore, at present, the activities of bailiffs, independent bailiffs from a professional point of view, or, if you will, from a legitimate point of view, are primarily controlled by the court. Of course, there may be a shift in focus towards the Ministry of Justice, and it is indeed our intention that the Minister of Justice, through complaints and complaint handling, will be able to exercise his right of supervision in relation to the activities of executives, but in part and in a greater part, the court will continue to control the activities of executives. This is probably also because, I have to say, it will be a constant element of the next enforcement system, the current enforcement system, because the judicial enforcement activity is very closely linked to the judicial judgment on which the enforcement is based and the judicial decision. So we have to put the court in a position to control executives, partly disciplinary, and ethically public administration, so the Ministry of Justice must be put in such a position. In this sense, supervision over bailiffs and control over them will always be a mixed solution. Their activities will be partly carried out by the court and partly by the Minister of Justice. This proposal primarily addresses issues relating to the supervisory powers of the Chamber or settles them for a transitional period, and the consequence of this transitional situation may be that by the end of the following year, the Ministry of Justice will be given an accurate picture of the supervisory rights, powers that the Chamber of Executives of the Court has been able to exercise and use these supervisory powers. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I said that we were ready to share with the Committee in the second half of 2015, with the Members of Parliament, our experience of judicial enforcement. The only way we can access this is with such strong driver's licenses as the Minister's Commissioner and his powers. These strong licenses will be used by the Ministry of Justice to give the National Assembly an accurate picture of the state of implementation in Hungary and the solution we have for the problems that have arisen. [[19.10]] Therefore, recognising the problems, but asking Parliament for a temporary mandate, we have submitted the bill, and so I ask that as many people as possible support the bill in order to obtain the broadest possible mandate behind the activities of the Minister's Commissioner and the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-17-246	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the debate on the Commission's report on the European Territorial Association is not taking place at today's meeting, as the government is T/1708/3. called on the Legislative Committee to be convened. Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Corruption in Strasbourg of 15 May 2003 and the publication of the 2002 XLIX Convention on Criminal Law of the Council of Europe on Corruption of 27 January 1999 in Strasbourg. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the proposal for an amendment. The submission is T/58. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs on a detailed debate T58/4. was given to them. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T58/6. T58/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-247	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 13 November 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Corruption in Strasbourg, dated 15 May 2003, and the publication of the 2002 XLIX Convention on Criminal Law of the Council of Europe on Corruption in Strasbourg, 27 January 1999. T/58 on the amendment of Act No. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed the amendment proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, mainly containing codification clarifications, which was unanimously supported by our committee. In addition, the Legislative Committee also expressed an intention to amend the content of this amendment aimed at clarifying the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Chapter IV of the Convention on international cooperation Chapter III of the Agreement aims to ensure that the Contracting Parties cooperate as widely as possible in the investigation and prosecution of corruption offences. They shall provide each other with mutual assistance and shall not refuse requests for such assistance, with a few exceptions. The Government is committed to combating corruption and because the Additional Protocol in question contributes to the fuller conclusion of the Convention, we have therefore supported its adoption. The Committee also unanimously supported the summarised amendment and the report. Thank you for listening.
u2014-11-17-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Károly Kontra if he wants to speak now. [[Dr. Károly Kontrat: I would like to follow the debate.]] Please, thank you very much for later. In that case, I will ask whether the appointed Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to appoint a rapporteur. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. The time frame is seen on the screens, but not on the pre-notified speaker. I'll ask you if anyone would like to comment on the proposal. [[No signal.]] No. In that case, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I would like to ask you once again if you would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State, please.
u2014-11-17-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/58. Support the Commission's proposal for an amendment to bill No 1. There is zero tolerance to corruption, and it is therefore very important that this proposal be adopted by Parliament as much as possible, so I ask the honourable Parliament to support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-250	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the votes will take place tomorrow at the meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws concerning certain municipalities and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. Independent motion by Congressman Antal Rogán and other Members T/1919. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the designated Judicial Committee on a detailed discussion T/1919/17. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1919.19. T/1919-20. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Péter Agh, rapporteur of the committee. I gave it to him, but he didn't take it for the reason he wasn't present. I hereby give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt to present the minority opinion. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to give you the minority opinion in the committee and, of course, after that, we would also like to comment on our further comments in the speaking time for Jobbik. The Committee noted that there was some Fidesz infighting during the submission of the amendments. I can think of the proposal that was first included in the law, that would have been about the seat of the county municipality, and that it should have been determined in the municipality of the county seat. It seemed to be designed for the county of Nógrád, and the infighting there seemed to be decided in parliament. And what God gives: this proposal has been withdrawn. Of course, this could be welcomed, but then we do not understand why it was formulated in the first place. Unfortunately, we did not receive any background information on this in the committee. Otherwise, in this form you can determine the county seat anywhere. There was so much said in the committee that, to be precise, the territory of the county seats does not usually fall within this area, they vote separately for the leaders there from a voter's point of view, so this could justify making this amendment where appropriate. The other thing that is perhaps more meaningful and has also been withdrawn is the possibility of basic research, applied research and experimental development aids and tax incentives. The question is that the municipality could have granted such advantages in its decree if the proposal had gone through with it. We would not have supported this in this form, but with the condition that this be available to small and medium-sized enterprises, we would have considered it eligible. After all, it is important to see that large companies, especially multi-enterprises, have already carried out research and development activities or have done so in many cases, it would not necessarily be justified to grant them an unlimited tax relief, but small and medium-sized enterprises, who were least present in the field of research and development, could have been a very good incentive for them. We regret that Jobbik's amendment proposals have not been adopted and the whole pass will be cancelled. [[19.20]] Of course, did the committee also say that the rules were not good? as regards the rules on conflicts of interest for Members or even the remuneration of mayors? introduce it after the elections and introduce it in such a way that it will not enter into force in the next municipal elections. Therefore, if they had done so or wished to do so, it would have been necessary to do so either this year before the municipal elections, thus allowing people who did not do so because of the current rules to run for municipal representatives or mayor positions, unfortunately, it would not have been possible; or if they had already done so or have been amended now, it would have had to come into force from 2019. This is about how I can summarize minority opinions, and, of course, we will continue in our speaking time. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the authors, Mr Tamás László indicated his wish to speak from the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-17-253	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I agree with the summarised amendment of the Legislative Committee, both with regard to the abandonment of the amendment of the law on local taxes, the abandonment of the seat of the county municipality and the amendment of the rules on conflicts of interest. I would like to ask for their support and point out that points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the summarised amendment concern the fundamental provisions of the bill, and it is therefore necessary to vote in favour of two-thirds of the Members present. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-11-17-254	Mr President, thank you very much, and I would also like to inform you that you have about nine minutes to speak as rapporteur at the end of the debate if you feel you need to. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-17-255	We support the amendments.
u2014-11-17-256	Okay, thank you very much. I'll do it later, if you like. I'll ask if the designated Judicial Committee wishes to set up a rapporteur. [[No signal.]] I don't see a sign like that. In this case, Honourable Parliament, we now have the Members' speeches in the time frame on the agenda. In the course of the debate, let me tell you, there is no possibility of a two-minute comment. There are also speakers who have been notified and those who have asked for a normal word. First up will be the pre-notified speakers. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin will be arriving in the Chamber.]] And I will give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, from the Jobbik Group, to use her microphone pinned down with the opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-257	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, About the conflict of interest bill? I'm sorry, am I just taking the summary proposal from my colleague? , already amending the rules on conflicts of interest...
u2014-11-17-258	Congresswoman, I would be happy to give you the opportunity to take a breather, and until then, your partner, Mr Staudt Gábor, will be able to take advantage of this opportunity. If you don't want to live with that, let me know.
u2014-11-17-259	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm already here, so I can tell you. Excuse me, I had to run back to the House from a meeting. We have therefore already expressed our view during the debate on how unfair we do not consider the situation that you have created, namely that during the conflict of interest period, when the representatives of the municipality have to declare whether they are subject to conflict of interest bans or not, so do they have any other job activity that would prevent them from occupying the position of a local government, during this period you will suddenly change the legal requirements for this matter with a wound lob. Is that what I think? Unfortunately, have we seen the summarised amendments and the proposal itself? That we did not take our advice in this regard, that this is an extremely restrictive attitude, which you represent, and not a European case-law, that we are changing the rules of the game in the meantime while playing. As I said then, we're gonna make the gate move, and we're always pushing it right where the ball comes from. In this way, in other words, I believe that in some sense you are also implementing the practice of retroactive legislation which is contrary to the Fundamental Law, since? You want me to give you a specific example? There is, let's say, a kindergarten manager, whom you are now resolving the conflict of interest against, who might have run for office in the elections, but since he thought that if he could win, these two things would be incompatible with each other, the representation and, let's say, the kindergarten management didn't even start in the elections, because he didn't want to be in such an unworthy position to make a choice. But obviously, you're the ones who wanted to see Fidesz sympathizers in these positions, obviously you've been informed that you're free to go, because that question will be settled anyway. I think that this is extremely unfair, and I would like to ask the Secretary of State to continue to consider these paragraphs and to have them removed from the law. Which would have been a good thing, and on which we tabled an amendment to the bill or even an amendment, namely the submission of local taxes, which would have provided for the exemption for the tax base of HUF 2.5 million, as the law has already done, but then introduced the possibility of granting such tax relief to companies carrying out basic research, applied research or experimental development. We have suggested that this is a good idea, but not to extend it to everyone, but only to small and medium-sized enterprises, so typically to Hungarian companies. After that, you erase the entire proposal, we don't understand why. Then why was it necessary to present this paragraph on your part? So we can't agree with deletion in this sense. The other one...? I am very sorry that our fellow Member has not been here in the past who resented the manner in which I had spoken to him in order not to have the county seat or the county seat designated, but to have a different decision to make. In this regard, I said that the internal debates of Fidesz, which must be lived in the county of Nógrád, are not being organised here in the House, but I did not say in a word that what has been tabled in the law would not be good. In fact, I think that it is precisely because of the very strange situation in Hungary that the county area does not belong in many respects to the county-righted city, for example...? So the territory of Hungary consists of counties and the holes in them, and there are cities with county rights above the fact that this issue should actually be resolved in the first place. In the second round, and in this context yes, the possibility could be given for county assemblies not only to meet in county towns or county towns, so not only can the county hall be there. After that, you also condemn this paragraph to be deleted. I don't really understand why, probably because the domestic debate within Fidesen is on the verge of not being tabled. We are now really looking forward to the outcome of this with real excitement, how the House will really decide on this issue. The rest of our thoughts on this will be expressed by my fellow Member. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-260	Thank you very much. We now have speakers who have asked for a normal word. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I do not think that there is a place in this debate to repeat the arguments made in the general debate, but I think that the house rules allow and our practice to bring back the fact that this bill is being tabled? As the congresswoman before me said? basically part of a process that wants to rewrite Hungary's public law and? More specific than that? its municipal system and the rules on how it currently meets Fidesz's policy interests. [[19.30]] Did you wait for the elections to take place and adapt those conflict of interest rules and other provisions to that effect? See, for example, the mayor's veto? which assures you that you can have full control of the power in the City Council that you couldn't win under the old rules. This is also due to an earlier amendment of the law that they have at all the majority in that municipality. There are provisions here, honourable Members, which would have been better and would have been more fairer to say before the municipal elections that those who run as candidates in the municipal elections know what to expect. However, as regards the specific proposals for amendment and the summation report of the Legislative Committee, it is indeed the regulation of the county seat. Ladies and gentlemen, You will remember that when you lost the mayor's seat in Salgótarján, you suddenly remembered that you should move the county seat to a local government or the seat of the county assembly, which is under Fidesz control, where the mayor of Fidesz won the municipal election. You didn't think of it even before the municipal elections when you didn't know who the mayor was going to be there, but at the time? What a coincidence? When the socialist mayor won the municipal election. Then, obviously, it reflects their internal relations, that there was a debate and a fight between you about where the county council should be, the seat of the county council. In the general debate, one of our fellow Members, a pro-government Member, argued quite strongly in favour of the position that although the original proposal contained the need to restore the seat of the General Assembly in Salgótarján, he has already tabled an amendment to this effect, which highlights this provision from the text of the bill, and therefore the seat of the local government may remain in the city to which you transferred after the municipal elections. And now, as I understand it, I hear from my fellow Member that it will not, but that it will remain as it is in the original proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, There are two major problems with this phenomenon. One is that you are also trying to deal with this provision in accordance with their current policy interests and place the seat of the municipality here and there, depending on whether you have won or lost in a given settlement; this is one of the problems in principle. The other is that you intend to fight your own internal disputes, their battles in the faction here before the Parliament's plenum. It would be good, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State, if I could finally decide whether or not to do so now, because this is the only step here, one there; the last time the law was passed, it was meant to be reinstated, and then the Member would say that he does not, and now another Member will say that he does. So, Mr. Secretary, how's that? I'd like to ask, does the government, like a windcock, spin from here to there? Or do you have a professional position on this matter? Because when we discuss the summary report and the proposal contained in it, then? If I'm reading it right? that means that it doesn't have to be reinstated. And now his fellow Member says they want to put him back. Secretary of State, how's that? I'd be honored if you could tell me what the government's professional position is. Or does the government change its position like the windcock, just like the majority of you in the faction? And does the government's professional position go as well as the political majority in your faction? So, ladies and gentlemen, not only was there a fundamental problem with the proposal, but there are also problems with the content of the amendment proposal and the method of negotiating the amendment proposal that must not be a simple professional objection on the part of the opposition, but must be seen as a sign of a general problem that is characterised by your governance: a hasty, unacceptable law of personal interest, a law for your personal revenge, and, by the way, not for the community, but for the benefit of Fidesz, what is going on here in the walls of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, This is totally unacceptable. It would be good if they finally came to their senses and used Parliament in a normal way and represented in a normal way the interests which they should represent on the basis of the mandate of voters. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-17-262	Thank you very much. It is now up to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, to speak with a normal voice. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-263	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, for the remaining three minutes, to talk a little bit about Budapest, and here is the final word we can say before the vote, before the vote on this proposal, to highlight some rather interesting circumstances. We told you, and my fellow Member Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said that the rules have changed, that they have changed nationwide and that they have also changed in Budapest. It is enough to think that the dissolution of the Metropolitan Assembly will require a four fifth majority in the future; an appropriate explanation cannot be given, unless you do not trust your own people. This is the consequence of the hybrid system that was created in the capital, and the need to legislate such nonsense, as a result of the fact that the Metropolitan Assembly is not elected directly, for example. The same is true of the mayor's veto, which will be much stronger than that of the President of the Republic, since as long as he can block the adoption of a decree, the decision of the capital is accepted by the Mayor. So even if it's, say, 80 percent of a general meeting that wants one, if there's a mayor who wants another, he can block decisions for several cycles, if he's elected. It's definitely not good, and it's not good that the mayor's benefits are being increased anyway. Although Viktor Orbán said here today in Parliament that nothing will change, the Mayor will also be entitled to ministerial allowances. So I have to say, if I want to be politically correct, that Viktor Orbán may not have been sufficiently informed about what was said in the municipal campaign. It could also be mentioned here that even the institution of this veto, the veto of the mayor's veto, was just a sort of sting in the campaign, and Viktor Orbán did not say that whoever wins will be entitled to this veto. So it seems that they also apply the legislation personally and make the legislation. István Tarlós was voted and voted for this veto, but I wonder if, for example, Lajos Bokros had won an unlimited veto, they would have also given him an unlimited veto with the majority of you in the Capital Assembly. If someone thought that you would have done this, then I think it is not on the ground of Hungarian political reality. But it also follows that, unfortunately, you are changing the legislation by two-thirds or even 50 percent? when what is needed? To be good for you and your elected representatives, your mayors, your mayor, and to do so a few days after the municipal election. This is totally unacceptable, it has nothing to do with state-of-law thinking and rule-of-law legislation, and it would be very good to finish this in the future. They won't benefit if they go in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-264	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here you go. [[19.40]]
u2014-11-17-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad to see that the author has returned to the courtroom. I would like to know how you will respond to what was said in the debate when you did not hear the views of the two Members of Parliament who spoke, as you called in the corridor. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the author tells us three sentences in Parliament's debate and then takes it and thinks that he has better things to do and that he is going out of here is totally unacceptable to me. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Tamás László, how he will respond to what has been said in the debate. I believe that it is written down in a pre-written text how you will respond to this, as my fellow members of government usually do, regardless of what is said in the parliamentary debate. You, Mr President, are unable to respond in substance, that is what I can tell you, because you did not participate in the debate in Parliament. He told me his own monologue in two or three minutes, and then he went out of this room. Neither did you hear my speech, nor did you hear Mr Staudt's speech. Honourable Congressman, I find this attitude unacceptable. I don't know if it's house rules now? Is that my flaw? I am sure, in the absence of the old house rules, that this debate should have been suspended. You, Congressman, weren't in the room, so you won't be able to answer the questions. Moreover, he has not once pressed a button, and he is still following the tactics that pro-government representatives always do. You've got 17 minutes, KDNP's got eight minutes. KDNP did not speak not only in this debate, but in the previous three or four, but did not use a single second of its timeframe. You, my honourable fellow Member, will also not be involved in this debate, but will express your opinion in the context of the author's closing speech, so that it can no longer be responded to. Congressman, what you're doing is a disgrace. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-266	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask if anyone wants to say anything about the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm going to ask you if you'd like to speak on behalf of the authors. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. On this day, Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik, asked to speak after the agenda, or the population disaster of Somogy County, called V. You have five minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Institute of Economics and Enterprise Research to New Hungarian Exodus? From the data series of his study, we can gain very sad calculations. According to the various calculations, 16-40,000 of our county can now make their fortune in the West. As a result of population failure with ever-increasing emigration, the population of Somogy County may decrease from 316 thousand in 2011 to up to 200 thousand by 2050, with about half of which will belong to Gypsy. However, by then, the working age population will clearly be in the majority and, in the light of current educational and employment data, this will generate serious problems that affect almost all areas. Currently, 55,000 Somogyi Gypsies account for about 6 percent of the 900,000 Gypsies in Hungary. That's the ratio? lack of other reliable data? In 1980, assuming and reflecting that the number of Roma in Somogy has increased by 175 percent in 34 years. There is a radically opposite process of populationization in 1980 for 340 thousand non-Gypsy populations, as their population has now fallen to 260 thousand with a staggering 80 000 weight loss over the three decades, indicating a 24 percent decrease. It is not difficult to see that, with such figures and such proportions, there are three or four deaths for each birth in Somogyi Hungarians. Is the county's annual loss of around 2,500, without any accelerating trend? Which is an acceleration of negative spiral failure, is it possible to assume even at a hypothetical level of optimism? Legally, a reduction of 100,000 will result in a reduction of XXI. In the middle of the century. It is suspected that even if the birth rate of Somogyi Gypsy is reduced, their number will reach nearly double the current level, i.e. half of the county's total population at that time, i.e. about 100,000 people. Once again, I would like to remind you of the difficulty in demographic trends, as it was visible, despite the fact that the birth rate had already become insufficient in 1958, the population of the country increased until 1980. So, if the better integration indicators of the majority of the county's gypsies result in a decrease in the number of children committed, the processes outlined above will not change much. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is to say, in his book The End Days of Europe, Professor Béla Hekol expressed the paradox with brutal honesty, which means that the door to the demographic trap has been closed to the county, and obviously, over time, to the population of the country and even the entire Carpathian Basin. The shock will certainly be apocalyptic, and the ruins of the population collapsing will bury many Hungarian and Gypsy members of the local society. Béla Hell's statement becomes more plastic when it is taken into account that, according to sociologists, some 37 percent of the Gypsy population belongs to the 0-14-year-old population, while according to data from 1 October 2011, only 14 percent of the population of Somogy County were children. And let us not forget that the latter represents aggregate data, which includes the corfa of Gypsyism with a much wider, more stable foundation than the Hungarians. So if we only look at the Hungarians, we can see data that are even more devastating than the 14 percent result. But these shockingly brutal data will come next time. Thank you, fellow Members, for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-268	Thank you very much. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that in Hungary Hungarians and Gypsies cannot be distinguished in my opinion. I'll pay your attention to that with all due respect. And now László Varju, an independent Member, has applied for an after-the-date speech:, Why does the Hungarian National Bank do business with offshore companies? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-269	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We are in the unique position that a shocking news came to light a few months ago, that the Hungarian National Bank started to carry out various transactions with HUF 200 billion essentially at its own discretion. On the one hand, he transferred the money to foundations that could be useful to the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank, at the same time excluding it from the possibility of depositing into the budget, and thus essentially contradicting any common sense, because instead of acting on different tax types further, instead of using this money for the benefit of the Hungarian people...? Instead, it is used for private purposes, essentially for private purposes. Reason cannot be found reasonable, and I therefore believe that there is a need for a substantive examination of specific cases. Does that give you any reason to consider it? And I think he should be treated as a classified act? If the Magyar Nemzeti Bank decides that the value of the property previously announced is significantly above the value of the property purchased by the central bank. It is also a well-known fact from the media that in recent weeks, besides the Tiszaroff castle hostel, he bought one of the most expensive offices in the capital city, a newly renovated Eiffel Palace under 78 Bajcsy-Zsilinszky Street in District V, for EUR 45.3 million, i.e. for billions of forints, and he bought this by saying that the purchase price is clearly well above market value. [[19.50]] This is also apparent from the fact that, in practice, the valuation and the real estate broker, which had previously dealt with the sale, advertised it much lower than this price. The Hungarian National Bank paid a billion and a half more to obtain this property. And all of this was done under circumstances that the Hungarian National Bank did not act carefully, because the MNB did not comply with the legal requirements in relation to the sale, because the sellers of Eiffel Palace are practically unknown, because the owners of Eiffel Palace Kft., the seller, are offshore companies that cannot be traced to private individuals. Accordingly, the Hungarian National Bank does not comply with the Hungarian laws. So it is not enough that you buy above the value, it is not enough that your owners are unknown, it is not enough that you are buying from an offshore company, while in the meantime you are taking away from the Hungarian people from the results achieved by the Hungarian National Bank, from the Hungarian people, from the Hungarian people all the opportunities that are otherwise included in the budget of the Hungarian National Bank. It is an important addition that, for the purchase price of the property, the surplus of EUR 5.1 million in the media, for which this property was purchased by the Hungarian National Bank, I think it is quite obvious. Therefore, public authorities should have taken action in the public interest and I would also like to draw attention to this. Therefore, I respectfully propose that the Government consider and examine the possibility of taking action on this matter and what action it intends to take. On the basis of this, György Matolcsy, President of the Central Bank, did not act responsibly when he concluded these sales contracts. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-17-270	Thank you very much. Our speech after the next agenda revolves around the question of Mr István Ikotity. I give the floor to him, there are 5 minutes available:. In connection with the new higher education strategy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-271	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, The State Secretary for Higher Education has recently published his new strategy:. Change of degrees in higher education. The Possibly Other Politics made use of the possibility of social consultation and sent comments on the first version of the strategic material. We would like to make our comments more widely available to the public. The following letter was sent to the State Secretary for Higher Education. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The LMP welcomes the fact that the State Secretariat for Higher Education has recently published a new strategy for higher education:. Change of degrees in higher education. After four and a half years of governance, the country can finally have an official concept of higher education. We believe that a concept adopted by the government, supported by the actors of higher education, would be needed as soon as possible. Without long-term strategic planning, there is no successful higher education. We consider it an important positive that the concept of a work-based society, which we consider to be completely flawed by the Prime Minister, advocates the knowledge-based society, though bileg, in essence. We welcome ambitious targets, but we hope that the necessary conditions will also be available to achieve this. We also consider it very important that the strategy commits itself to maintaining higher education in rural areas and that it wants to make available some higher education services in all disadvantaged regions. However, we strongly disagree with certain parts of the strategy. In any case, the LMP would increase public support for higher education, making this a long-term objective, with the current level of budget support being insufficient. We do not agree that the strategy considers existing institutional inequalities in infrastructure as a gift and wants to build on them. The LMP would seek to address inequalities. We are concerned about the plans to transform university education and leadership. The LMP agrees that as many actors as possible should be involved in the preparation of decisions, including those involved in the socio-economic environment, but that decision competences should be deployed where most information is available. Thus, strategic and key budgetary decisions should be focused on the maintainer, and concrete practical decisions should be focused on local university and college management. We think it is a serious deficiency that the strategy does not talk about its expectations regarding the public education system. Higher education should be based on the public education system, and students don't go to universities and colleges out of nowhere. We definitely consider it necessary to supplement the strategy, including a separate public education chapter. Finally, we also consider that the strategy does not set specific objectives in terms of the number of higher education institutions, the number of students, the proportion of public funding or the proportion of reimbursement and public funding. We do not know whether the strategy requires more or less institutions, more or less registered students, more or less public-funded seats, what is desirable, what is the goal to be achieved. We sense that this has not been included in the strategy because of the avoidance of conflicts with the various lobbying groups, but that the objectives of higher education need to be constantly adapted to external factors. It is untenable if the funds spent on higher education are considered to be wasted money, uneconomical and unnecessary expenditure. Overall, we are pleased that there has been a detailed and debateable concept, for which we too have the opportunity to comment at this early stage and to write down our opinion. We hope that ultimately a higher education strategy will be created that commits itself to planning the knowledge-based society and long-term higher education actors in the face of short-term economic interests. Since then, State Secretary László Palkovics has thanked us for our proposals and promised that they will be reflected in the relevant chapters of the strategy. We look forward to a new version of the strategy, and we express our hope that, like the State Secretary for Higher Education, the rest of the government will lay down its long-term strategy for its own field of expertise. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-17-272	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, applied for a speech with the title I., the losers of the government's unpredictable tax and budgetary policy. You have five minutes, please.
u2014-11-17-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for tonight's speech because when we first started to debate tax laws and even got to know them through the press, and we, as Members, were able to get to know the motion, it was still a matter of fineness, and we opposition representatives do not have to worry, as government ministers and state ministers have said, because it will not cause such problems to those affected as we assumed. Well, it happened today, didn't it, the final debate of the tax laws, and we see that where the draft legislation was amended compared to the original draft, it was only in a negative sense; it made the situation worse than it could have improved. I would like to focus on two areas in the absence of time. One is the conversion to 5% VAT on basic foods and the debate on this. After all, the government, not surprisingly to me, has stood several times at committee meetings and professional forums, and has said that they would be very supportive of this 5-percent food tax. I would like to emphasise here once again that, of course, we are talking only about basic food, because it would be good for the people concerned, it would be good for the producers, it would be good for consumers. However, these positions were bled out in the dispute between the ministries, and the approach that says that the poorest people should also be sabotaged, but this high tax rate must be maintained. They came here for reasons that were unacceptable to Jobbik. We have prepared a proposal for this. In fact, I have to go back to the point that it was one of the first better proposals in 2010 to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%, and we have been submitting this proposal year after year, period after period, always changing and updating. [[20.00]] After all, we accept that you are in government, but we do not accept that such a proposal, which would help so many people's lives, should not be supported, even though, according to your own statement, I say once again that you said that this would be a good proposal. So we have been trying to identify product types that are naturally homemade and that concern people, the people whose financial situation would be significantly helped by this proposal, are the ones who buy them. By contrast, did you introduce some relief for pigs last year, or other large animals in this proposal? cattle, sheep and goats? the 5 per cent product scope is also included. According to their own declaration, this will not apply to consumers, and I would therefore like to propose this for review, and that this product scope could be extended beyond those listed, and that we would like to extend it to the whole basic food product category. Dr. István Nagy, State Secretary, said at a committee meeting on this matter that he is the biggest advocate of this issue. I urge Mr Secretary of State to use all his lobbying powers then, and we will try to bring this proposal forward together for the sake of the small-time Hungarian people. I have also touched on the other subject here in the House, but I have to say it again, because here there was a concrete promise that they would consider their strategy and that they would not execute a significant part of the Hungarian pálinka breweries. The final proposal today? And as I understand it, perhaps tomorrow the House will also press "yes" for it, because the government representatives have indicated their support? It does say that a third of the farmers, and this is the opinion of the profession, will close within a year if these conditions remain. So far, it's zero percent? Are we talking about brandy right now? the rate of excise duty on these hired products. Your freedom fight against Brussels has failed here, and as a result, the excise duty obligation of 50 percent alcoholic distillate will be HUF 1670, which is a major step forward compared to zero. What if we add to the fact that the tenants have to make a living? About 1,000 forints per litre? Then we're going to have to get 3000 forints for a brewed brandy, which is obviously not going to be done by the majority. Once again, the age of the nooks can come, the age of poor quality can come again, and such a noble product? And I think we're talking about a Hungaricum that we're all proud of? You can go down the slope again. Jobbik also strongly rejects this and stands up for the freedom of Hungarian pálinka. Consider the Romanian version, which is supposed to have dealt with this problem against Brussels, and look at other options, because we consider this unacceptable. To sum up, Jobbik strongly demands from the government both the 5% VAT on basic foods and the recovery of the freedom of the pálinka. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-17-274	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the Parliament, MSZP:, Can you hear the message of Pope Ferenc Fidesz-KDNP? It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-275	I'd like to read the message of Pope Francis. Let us note that the woman who had the courage to keep and bear her child is the woman she meets. Closed door! If we continue like this, we will do no good to people, God's people. Jesus founded seven sacraments, but with such behaviors we make up an eighth: the sacrament of the pastor's duties...,,, who approaches the church, must find an open door, and not an inspector of the faith...,,, We need saints without reverends and veils. We need saints in jeans and sneakers. We need saints who go to the movies, listen to music and walk with friends. We need saints who put God first, but they stand out at the university. We need saints who find time for everyday prayer, and they are capable of pure love, or they are consecrated of purity... . Why did Pope Francis say this? The front? completely on purpose? I lost it. Imagine that an unmarried woman goes into the temple and asks that you baptize her son. And the person who's in there is saying, "You can't, because you're not married..." I chose this message on purpose from Pope Francis. What's the big deal? Last Monday, Imre Palkovics, President of the National Association of Workers' Councils and the Christian Democratic Secretary of State Bence Rétvári held a press conference on Sunday's opening hours. I will quote what the MTI has come up with about this press conference: Imre Palkovics, President of the National Association of Workers' Councils, said that the situation of trade workers is not rosy and that the existing regulation needs to be changed. There are 550,000 people, 75 percent of them are women and 51 percent are parental. And they demand the solidarity of society in the commercial units involved, with people working in shops. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A lot of questions need to be asked when such a sentence is spoken. What is the basis on which people, citizens, workers, women are counted whether or not they are capable of being born? On what basis do Christian Democrats dare to do that at the press conference, they do not object to anyone cataloging people on this basis today? I looked into whether it was true or not. On the website of the Workers' Councils, the Christian-valued trade union, is this:. in the commercial sector, the female employment rate is two thirds, including 51 per cent for women of childbearing potential, and it is therefore really important to take into account family considerations in the open hours. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The misunderstanding must be avoided: they are not talking about mothers with children, but about women with childbearing potential. I'd like to know why I'm born today at 42, with three children? Based on what? How do they know what kind of birth control devices we use? Or how does anyone dare to use a box? It occurred to me once again that István Varga, a Fidesz MEP, said in Parliament on 10 September 2012, that the most important profession of women, ladies and especially young women was to have children... women forgot to have children during self-realization and emancipation. In addition, of course, if everyone gives birth to their two or three or four children and gives the country enough and everyone is happy, then everyone can make their own way and work in different places. * These fake Christian Democrats today want to dictate how to live, how to work, what to do with our lives, all of us who consider ourselves to be full-fledged women and men. I think you should have stopped a press conference like this and not been involved. I think you should be ashamed of yourself for standing up for a press conference like this and assisting him. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2014-11-17-276	Thank you very much to the Congresswoman. We now have a speech after the agenda, Mr Sándor Bodó, Mr Fidesz: You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-17-277	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, During our historical studies, we have seen the dilemma, the question of what the results of the social division of labour between women and men are, what opportunities, what results, and what conflicts might arise from them. Of course, it can create a huge dilemma as to how and how work-family harmony can be created, but I think that from either side of the problem, the question will always be a question. Understandably, if you look at the work side, because if the working woman spends her working time in the workplace, in her business, then the family may be a little behind the table, a little social uprising may arise from this, or she may not feel so comfortable either. The other extreme is that if a woman is tied only and exclusively to the warmth of the family stove, then after a while she lacks the possibility of self-realization, and we must honestly admit that the performance of the economy requires their work, as well as the work of the ladies and women. [[20.10]] The question is reasonable: how do we proceed? Give the option of free choice with no, there will be no financial pressure, and in fact this is what the, how further, tries to answer the question of ged extra. Yes, I have to share some thoughts about the ged extra in the walls of this House, as the extra effect of the ged has already resulted in nearly 15,000 mothers with small children working in addition to the ged or ged for more than 30 hours in September 2014. According to the NAV records, nearly 9,000 mothers with small children worked alongside the Gyed, and 6 000 mothers worked for more than 30 hours per week. Since 1 January 2014, mothers with small children will no longer have to give up maternity benefits as part of the Gyed extra if they want to work alongside raising children. In the past, women were not able to work alongside the lawn at all, and besides the child, only for less than 30 hours a week. In September, in the framework of the job protection action, parents returning from the child or from the child already received contributions from employers after 40,766 persons. This number is 33 percent higher than in the same period last year. Dear House, These measures have made a significant contribution to achieving a new peak in women's employment in the third quarter of 2014 and 1 million 900 000 of them are already working. That's why your kid extra is successful. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. And now it is time for Congresswoman Márta Demeter to speak after the agenda:, Budapest with the title of our city. Here you go.
u2014-11-17-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we celebrate the unification of Pest, Buda and Óbuda on the two banks of the Danube. This is how today's Budapest was created in 1873. With this illustrious event, the capital of an entire nation was created. Our city has seen many things. The Buda part was burned by the Tatars, and later the Turks occupied the area. Budapest has lived wars and has lived revolutions. For centuries, the united city has been in the field of the need for rights. In addition to fulfilling their obligations, Budapest's residents have always earned their rights to compensate for them, no matter how they tried to suppress them. Orbán visited the Budapest Ministry years ago. This is not necessary today, because without it, the Prime Minister is trying to force his own illusions on the city through the Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, Without strong Budapest there is no strong Hungary. Fidesz knows that, too. However, the measures taken in recent years show that Viktor Orbán does not want a strong Hungary. He said, we remember not watching what he says, but what he does. All right, let's take a look at this. Don't listen to what he's saying, because otherwise he's been lying for over four years, we know that. Let's keep an eye on his actions. What are you doing? It weakens the country and weakens Budapest. And the mayor of Budapest, István Tarlós, is a faithful servant in this destruction. Before the municipal elections, the well-known Budapest Act was passed, in which the conditions of the election were adapted, the Budapest Congress and the General Assembly were also subjugated to their own illusions. Now the mayor's veto has been modified, the mayor's salary has been cut, the factions have been abolished, and the mayor's salary has been significantly increased. The streets of Budapest have seen many things. Today, in addition to other cities, thousands of people on the streets of Budapest are trying to draw the government's attention to the fact that they are taking the country in a very wrong direction and are taking Budapest in the wrong direction. The government is trying to turn the heart of the country, Budapest, into manual control. The Fidesz can no longer refer to the elections! The heart of Budapest is beating again. Let us remember this today, and this event is happening today. History has also shown that the country is listening to the voice of Budapest, and now the government has to pay attention. Budapest spoke again today. And even Viktor Orbán, a bath in his illusions, cannot ignore that. And the Fidesz congressmen? Can we see that the House is empty, by the way? They're not trying to control their long-lost boss from reality, they're running away from the voice of the people. I think they can't do this for long, they can't run away from the people's voices. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-17-280	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have now reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. At 8:00 a.m., we will resume the meeting of the Parliament. I'm closing the meeting. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 8:15 p.m.]]
