u2014-12-23-1-0	Good morning, fellow Members. I would like to welcome all of you and all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. This is the opening of the 2nd winter special session of the Parliament. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, József Móring and Nándor Gúr will be notaries to help me. Mr József Tóbias, leader of the MSZP Group, applied for a speech before the agenda today: a special meeting for the toll-free bypasses! It's an address. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-23-1-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We convened today's extraordinary parliamentary meeting because, despite all the protests that are rightfully displayed in society, the current governing parties intend to tax the users of the M0 road and all the users of Hungary's bypasses. What we want, however, is for the Parliament to decide not to pay any tax burden in Hungary at all, either now or in the future, on the roads currently used free of charge, no matter what the government comes up with. [[8.00]] I would like to remind you, however, that the negotiation of tax laws took place, and the budget was budgeted in such a way that if the government's response to the interpellation of the eye-eared opposition representatives was not observed, it would not be clear what the government had in 2015 to do with the taxation of Hungarian citizens. Now we know that there are Fidesz, independent, left-wing mayors, professional organizations, crowds protesting government intentions. They are not speaking in the air, several people have said: in the absence of impact studies, you can only guess to what extent the proposal you are planning to do, the lives of Budapest or the settlements on which traffic is currently taking place along the bypasses. As always, we see the government acting like it doesn't hear anything the street says to him. He doesn't hear anything the opposition has to say about the state of the country within the walls of this house. In fact, he's lying about introducing the M0 toll as a discount. This may be true in the Orwell world, when the problem, so to say, the levying of taxes, should be welcomed by all Hungarian citizens in Hungary. Often conflicting statements have been made on this subject, no social messages are accepted by the government, without meaningful dialogue, but it is the arbitrariness, the governance against society that you are presenting right now. You are talking about a national consultation and a two-thirds mandate. The latter is legally true, but what we see in reality is that most of their supporters have turned their backs on you. After all, instead of dialogue, you believe in arbitrary decisions, the decision on tolls is an example of how you govern: eviscerating society, ignoring social will, emptying dialogue. You have not heard those who have protested the abolition of the rule of law in recent months, nor have you heard those who see poverty in Hungary today in their immediate environment against which they are protesting, against which they want to speak, and come, going to the squares of cities to say that it is enough, let the government continue this policy. [[L. Simon László is arriving at the meeting.]] Teachers who are fighting for their career model and professional sovereignty in their operation next year; trade union leaders who protest against the eradication of cafeteria in Hungary; those who protest against the introduction of the Internet tax in Hungary, and we could list the number of demonstrations that have been formulated and initiated in recent weeks and months to Hungary, which - be clear - is the criticism of your government policy. This criticism cannot be heard, on the other hand, to politicalize, means that the government itself is divorcing reality, and forgets that the authority to which it so many times refers proudly will melt. In the meantime, we see that they do nothing but do their internal power flings, who and how to fight, to dominate personnel policy, finance or use public funds, this is much more of a concern for the current governing party today than it is for reality. I would like to say to you: today, with so many of us sitting here in this room, the initiative's intentions are clear. Yours has also become clear. It doesn't matter, Mr. Secretary, what you're going to answer to me today. I'm going to listen to it with great respect. At the same time, the blank lines behind you clearly indicate that you wish to introduce the toll in Hungary against social will. Tolls which were not conducted in any national consultation, in any dialogue with stakeholders, mayors and professional organisations. With this decision, you will do nothing but place the point on the i, this scandalous government policy of the last year. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-23-1-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-1-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Your Honour, Mr. President. As opposed to a motorway system around the world, some essential requirements have certainly been laid down in Europe. One of them is to be united throughout the country, regulated according to uniform principles, affordable everywhere in one country, meet the general European requirement that users pay and facilitate the use of faster, safer and more environmentally friendly motorways as far as possible. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How does that make it faster?]] I'm sure you don't argue with them either. The fast-track network was built from Community funds and taxpayers' tax forints. However, access is uneven, nearly half of the free network is located in Pest county. With the introduction of the county vignette system, the users of the highways have to make their share of the fee in the same way. Where the same conditions of transport are provided, the charges for their use must also be the same. With an international outlook, it can be seen that Austria and Slovenia do not exist at all, and in the Czech Republic and Slovakia there are only a very small number - and most of them within the city - of motorways that can be used free of charge. In Hungary there are no motorways within the city. The elimination of free sections will not lead to a fairer situation to avoid motorways. The use of parallel free sections is associated with a serious loss of time, with an additional cost significantly higher than 400 HUF per month due to a longer journey. Therefore, there is no need to fear a large and lasting shift in traffic to the roads of the agglomeration settlements and the outer districts. [[Agnes Kunhalmi's intervention.]] A significant proportion of car traffic is usually made up of people travelling at a short distance to work, on a daily basis, in so-called professional traffic, most of them do not use motorways because of annual stickers, even if otherwise available. Regular motorway use in a county costs HUF 5 000 from next year instead of HUF 43,000. [[Zoltán Pride: No, no!]] Thus, commuters and regular travelers who travel to their workplace are reduced from several counties, for example, to fragments of those who drive to the capital. [[Zoltán Haughty: And then what will become of revenue?]] With the purchase of stickers adapted to travel patterns, about 90 percent of previous costs can be saved for a county, but even for four counties at least half can be saved. The price of the annual county sticker is less than two weeks and slightly more than the price of a single monthly national sticker. The introduction of the county sticker is a major saving for hundreds of thousands of families, who in the future will spend just over 400 forints a month for 400 forints a month. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] use a network of motorways near their place of residence. All rural destinations from all counties of Budapest and the capital will be more affordable and cheaper than before. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] Meeting the Community's demand: the European Union expects Member States to implement the "using and polluting pays" principle more and more widely. This was the goal of the successful introduction of the e-toll system in Hungary last summer, and the gradual unification of sticker fees also has an impact in this direction. We think it's very important to promote. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Today, the density of the motorway network in Hungary is also acceptable on a European average, in addition to the current construction. [[8.10]] It is a top government goal to ensure that all citizens, all motorists, live in Budapest on the same terms, live in Pest county, Szabolcs or Baranya. Less, as the current system has resulted in only 3 percent of car users buying annual stickers so far [[Zoltán Pride: Because he didn't need it!]] However, it is clear that annual shopping is in the best interest of both users and of the long-term maintenance of the motorway. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Mr. Zoltán Gőgös: Secretary of State!]] Thank you for the opportunity, and I trust I've managed to convince you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Deterioration in the benches of MSZP. Agnes Kunhalmi: I'm thinking now! L. Simon László: I can tell!]]
u2014-12-23-1-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking in front of the agenda from the Jobbik Group, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the National Assembly, asked for a speech on the subject entitled M0. Here you go, notary.
u2014-12-23-1-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before talking about the title of my speech, that is to say, the newest nightmare of the government, with which it scares Hungarian society, I would like to say a few words in advance about all the events that form the basis of this idea. We must commemorate the Demszky era in the magistrate's office. The years when, as a result of the combination of dilettious urban planning ideas and corrupt city management, the natural process of suburbanization was replaced by the extremely harmful defurbanization of our capital city. Instead of carefully designed and scheduled development of suburbans and suburbans, which is suburbanisation, the original urban fabric fell into pieces completely unreasonablely, uncontrollably and rapidly. What was the characteristic of the Demszky era? Uncritical service of investor interests, drastic reduction of green surfaces, lack of infrastructure development; the emergence of tin can construction along the bypass routes with great difficulty and considerable delays, and the growth of shopping malls [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: And progress!]] And in a decade and a half, the escape of over a million people! - from the capital. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] But now this process has been completed in its entirety, and the daily commute has become a form of millions of lives. Millions travel daily to school, work, shopping, administration. And now the government wants to be the tax collector. He's a tax collector of past years, decades of mistakes, but in dilettantism he's far superior to the Demszky era. He's making mistakes, some of which I'd like to mention. First, let's look at the amount of duty, or toll. We have heard many different songs in this regard. At first, the government expected about HUF 40 billion from the expansion of toll rates and tolls. Soon it turned out that it was only half, in fact, about 20 billion. Of this, freight forwarders would bear nearly 13 billion, obviously passing it on to the general public in their prices. Thus, the passenger car revenues of the M0 and the opening motorways could be 7 billion. But if all the Budapest and all the Pest County motorists, i.e. one million people would buy the annual sticker that could be used for these roads, we could still talk about only HUF 5 billion. The wallet itself acknowledged at various meetings and forums that it did not expect this much revenue from extending the toll. In fact, this would be, we know, about a billion forints. At the same time, negative externalities, harmful environmental impacts were still little dealt with in the wallet. The air and noise pollution caused by traffic on agglomeration settlements, the increasing risk of accidents, is it worth the possibility of realising revenue of a magnitude of barely tens of thousands of people in the central budget? Let me give you a specific example of the expected consequences of the government's nightmare proposal. In the Zsámbéki Basin, we know there are about 100,000 inhabitants. Two road connections link the Zsámbéki Basin to the capital: the opening phase of M1-M7 - twice two and twice three lanes - and the two lanes of Budakeszi Road. Obviously, it will shift from the opening phase of the M1-M7 to Budakeszi road - if the toll is introduced - this huge traffic, which will cause a tremendous strain on this environment. In the event of an accident, it will take hours to get into the capital from the Zsámbék basin in case of bad weather. What is the real purpose of the government? According to the official justification, it intends to make the public adapt to the use of public transport. It's an important, very forward-looking thought. That's right. But then perhaps we should have first created a real alternative public transport with track equipment, bus networks, P+R parking lots! On the other hand, the example of the Zsámbéki Basin shows that, where the solution would be obvious, these ideas are not realized by using, reviving, connecting to the railway network, the tram network, but they are not even really planned. However, both the EU's expectations and the development plans based on them would encourage the development of social mobility, but these written principles seem to be worth as much as the government's toll proposal: they are not even suitable for distraction. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Really, what is it that the government wants to distract from? Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-1-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-1-7	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is why politics is an interesting genre, because from the same facts, depending on which side of the parliamentary carnival we are sitting on, we come to completely opposite conclusions. We say that the distribution of motorway use is better served by a system available for 5 thousand forints per year than a system available for 43,000 forints per year. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then what will become more money, Mr. Secretary of State?]] You say no, the 43,000 forints is better, because more will use it. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. A voice from Jobbik's benches, Zero!]] You said the same thing for five minutes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But here's the thing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, In the metropolitan agglomerations - and please don't forget, not only Budapest is a big city in Hungary, we also have several large rural cities, and they have a large agglomeration - they are regular people daily, they come to work, mentioned by you in the morning and evening. [[Zoltán Pride: But they didn't have to pay!]] , their child is being held in kindergarten school, along with some who were not taken to school by his mother, but let's assume that those whom he took are forced to use the highway in professional traffic. For them, access to the motorway is a fundamental daily issue. This basic daily condition is better served by an annual sticker available for 5 thousand for two counties for 10 thousand forints, as we believe, than by a currently 43 thousand forints fee, or by a ten-day sticker which is virtually useless to them. [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of opposition parties. Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] It means saving hundreds of thousands of families, you can't mathematically disprove it. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. Dr. Wind Bernadett: Neither are you. Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] The more in the crowd is definitely more. [[Great noise.- Novak Előd: Commandment number eight: don't lie. The president's ringing the bell. Public statements and information in opposition benches.]] By saying, [[L. Simon László: The Fidesz faction listened to you silently! A voice from Jobbik's benches: 'Cause he's not here! Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hundreds of thousands who do not currently use motorways are not used because they do not go for them, they are not used, because otherwise they are deterred by your aggressiveness, so they do not go on motorways, with this system they will use in a large crowd the faster, more environmentally friendly and, more importantly, better systems in terms of road safety. [[Zoltán Pride: What was free so far is now for money!]] And who's gonna be right, for the next six months, we're gonna see it together a year. During a number of discussions, because my fellow Members, there have been many discussions with the bodies representing interest [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of opposition parties. Zoltán Haughty and Timea Szabó: With whom? Who? The president's ringing the bell.]] mayors and mayors who, due to their residence, were very biased in this matter, since a Mayor of Pest County [[Szabó Timea: How could they not be biased?!]] Obviously, he will not represent the Szabolcsi, Baranya or the peaceful population. [[8.20]] He represents his own, and he's right about that. There's only one other thing. And he and, as painful as it may be for you, you must take note of that. Our Consciousness [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: None taken!]] That this system is cheaper for all, more accessible to all, no matter how strange it is for you, it provides a level playing field for everyone. Please remember this debate today, in a year's time, when we will review the experience of this one year and see where the prognosis came from, whose opinion was well founded or unfounded. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Why isn't Fidesz here? Dr. András Schiffer: Where's Fidesz?]] So in a year's time, I'll be waiting for you to discuss this subject here and here and with you. [[Szabó Timea: Spend less on stadiums, then you don't have to unload the budget!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. György Rubovszky, Dr. Bence Rétvári and L. Simon László applaud.]]
u2014-12-23-1-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda from the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Szél came forward with the title of a new sac. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-1-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Respected by an eye of Congressman, there in the pro-government benches! Looking around at this performance that you just put on the table. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Two thirds!]] It seems that the promise you made on the House Committee is true that you will not come to this meeting. They do this because they are cowards to defend their own proposal, they do so because they cannot stand up for what the government thinks is right, and you do not share fate with Hungarian people, the Hungarian people who have been sabotaged. Starting from here, I think that this is the message of Fidesz-KDNP for the Hungarian people this Christmas that they are not willing to engage in any kind of community of fate with them. [[L. Simon László: Demagogy!]] And they don't give a rat's ass about how Hungarian people are being smeared. Who do you represent, my honourable fellow Member, there, an eye in the pro-government benches itself? ! Let everyone be clear: the reason why this meeting was important to the opposition was that it was important to talk about this proposal because we clearly see what this is about. The government simply started an idea government, and suddenly decided to tax work, school attendance, tax the mobility of Hungarian people. I think you both know that this is a completely improbable path. The reason they have an eye is precisely because they know that this is the point that they will not be able to look the Hungarian people in the eye. Dear Secretary of State, What prognosis are you talking about? You don't have an impact assessment, you didn't have any consultation with professional organisations at all, and protests are coming out from standard professional chambers, mayors, their own people. You didn't check with anyone. What are you talking about, what prognosis? You knew one thing: that you needed money, but that you needed it very quickly. I mean, don't doubt it, everyone here can see through the situation, and everyone knows that your primary goal here is to snag, to patch up the budget, no matter what. However, it would be good, my honourable fellow Member, to have an eye in the pro-government bench itself, if they could finally see that what is costing this country is corruption, your dilettantism and your urisation. That's what costs us money. It does not cost money, my fellow Members, that if we avoid the capital, it should not cost money, and if we do not pass the agglomeration, the small settlements, where we are already drowning. Dear Secretary of State, You know, I live in Budakeszin; I live in Budakeszin, which is one of the settlements that will drown, among other things, thanks to this toll you have just extended, and I am here on this sitting - but where is the elected representative of Budakeszi and his district? He's not here. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Where are the Cups? Where's the 18th? Circuit?]] I'm in the traffic with these settlements, I'm in traffic with them every morning on bus number 22 and I'm in the hall with them. Where are you, Mr. Secretary of State? Why don't you defend your own proposal? [[L. Simon László: We're here to protect you!]] At just these moments, the elected Member of Parliament is letting people down. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's right! Cynical! Only the Fidesz!]] Even though he knows it's bad for the agglomeration settlements. [[L. Simon László: Even you laugh at your own demagoguery.]] Who do you represent, a fellow Member, in the pro-government benches, honourable Secretary of State? You have to understand, this idea is as bad as it is. This has been sent to you by the citizens. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's what the LMP claims, that's what the other opposition parties say. The sentence, Mr Secretary of State, is that people do not use the motorway because the aggression of the opposition is holding them back, and I simply cannot interpret it. What are you thinking, Mr. Secretary? Why don't you explain it to me, because I really don't understand? However, I see that this idea has been clearly rejected, on the one hand, by the Municipality of Pest County, the Association of City Rights, the Budapest and Pest County Chamber of Engineers, the Air Task Force and several Fidesz mayors. In a way, national cooperation has actually been achieved here, just against the government. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary. [[L. Simon László: Great Coalition!]] So as for you guys constantly deflecting and constantly talking about the county sticker, I can't help but tell you to introduce it and leave the toll extension alone. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right, that's right!]] Don't let us drown, don't let us drown in the agglomeration, and don't drown the capital. In this city, Honourable Secretary of State, people live for less because of the high concentration of particulate matter. From now on, why do you want to put more traffic on the capital? And the horse's foot is really hanging out here because they say they want us to be retrained to community transport. Now look at the Volan's fleet. That's where it's all broken down! Take a look at the proposal, which, by the way, quotes the Fox Age: Nefmi is aware that they will soon hit the rail timetable as well. What kind of public transportation are they trying to get us into? One word, like a hundred, with that idea, you guys got yourselves busted. This toll is a real proposal from the past year, and we now know at least that when you said in April 2014 that you would like to continue what you started, you were thinking not only of your past four years, but of the previous twenty. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Shame on you!
u2014-12-23-1-10	On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-1-11	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to answer your heated suggestion for the first minute. On 21 November, we discussed with representatives of the carriers, Fuvos, Waberer, NiT, on 12 December with the Car Club, on 13th with the motor vehicle dealers, with the International Carriage Industry, with the representatives of the Grand Coalition for Cars. On 15 December, I myself consulted the individual mayors of the capital and the agglomeration, where opinions were divided. There were people who were against him, and there were people who supported him. If you had included the representatives of Borsod, Zemplén, Csanád or Baranya in the list, it wouldn't have been possible to present the matter in such a uniform manner. Undoubtedly, most of the country benefits from this proposal, and there is a beneficiary circle that now contributes to the cost of 400 forints per month, a little more than a litre of petrol, or two dumplings of ice cream to be borne by all citizens of the country. [[Zoltán Haughty: But it wasn't so far!]] Even the Budakes will endure this if they want to get into or back to work faster, safe, and more environmentally friendly. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Grimlock: It is possible to increase this! Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: It's indefensible, don't explain.]] The single system is uniform even if this does not please the opposition for political reasons. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You are committing the fundamental sin against your own electorate that you are self-serving for a day's political interest. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's good! Don't you guys?]] For two weeks, they won't be able to get him any longer, they'll be able to get people to try and hide on the side roads for two or three weeks... [[Mr. Novak intervenes. An uproar from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-23-1-12	Fellow Members! [[Big noise, the president's ringing.]]
u2014-12-23-1-13	...but people will recognize their interests. People in the car community recognize their interests, and they will use the road network available to them for 400 HUF a month. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is not a matter of political resolution, it is a matter of rationality. It's a matter of life management, it's a rational matter of life management. [[It's an uproar. Ágnes Kunhalmi shows: This is a question of leadership! The president's ringing the bell.]] And you can't do anything about it, not against the ruling party, but against the Hungarian car society, if you refuse to look at the numbers because of your daily interests. If you refuse to see that you currently have 2 percent car pass, because on the 43 thousand forints that [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] By the way, in 2007, you introduced me, you introduced me, and we are changing this system from 2007 onwards. [[8.30]] There is no better evidence of the correctness and justification of our proposal that you cannot bear it, you cannot even listen to it, because the numbers are decisive and decisive. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shameful! Dr. Wind Bernadett: Where's the impact assessment? Agnes Kunhalmi: We don't have to account for it!]] Dear Parliament, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Amazing!]] I am convinced that this resolution of the government and the decree of the Ministry that will introduce it represent the interests of hundreds of thousands of families, hundreds of thousands of motorists [[Dr. András Schiffer:...needed!]] ; 5 thousand forints instead of 43,000 forints, available to everyone. The impact assessments you've requested are in front of me, available [[Dr. András Schiffer: Let's see. Szabó Timea: Why haven't we seen it before?]] and after the decision has been taken [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] as required by the order, it is required by the legislative law, and this will be made public. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Sit down! Dr. András Schiffer, we're suing you.]] If Congressman Schiffer will allow it, because maybe he's interested. [[L. Simon László: No driver's license!]] the reasonable proposals made in the course of the negotiations have been taken into account, as a result of which the Megyeri Road, which performs virtually internal tasks, remains free of charge. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP. Zoltán Lukács: You have no Christmas spirit!]] That's because [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] it serves an internal traffic that does not belong to the motorway system, but to the interior. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: They defended the Megyer Bridge, let's celebrate!]] Ladies and gentlemen. I'll see you in a year. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds. Continued intervention from opposition parties.]]
u2014-12-23-1-14	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Make it possible to develop an understandable way of speaking in Parliament [[Szabó Timea: It's not up to us!]] Because it's a basic noise that doesn't allow... [[Dr. András Schiffer reporting.]] Mr Fraction Manager, it is only possible to speak on a case-by-case basis if there is an agreed agenda. We don't have an approved agenda yet. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: There will not be! Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Shout! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speeches before the agenda. No one came forward to speak after today's agenda. [[L. Simon, leaving László's seat, leaves for the exit of the Chamber. Dr. András Schiffer: Stay here! Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: Where are you going? L. Simon László: I'm working!]] Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr József Tóbias, Head of Group and another 40 Members, by submitting the necessary supporting signatures, will be the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law [[L. Simon László is leaving the room. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament was initiated. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Where is L. Simon? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] In their motion, they indicated that H/2403 on the granting of a fee exemption for the urban bypass sections of the Hungarian motorway network. They shall initiate negotiations in exceptional proceedings. As has been the case so far, we first decide whether the Parliament accepts the discussion of the proposal in exceptional proceedings and then we decide on the proposal on the agenda submitted by the President. The House Committee met on Friday, so some of the dates initiated by the authors changed. Today, amendments will be possible until 3:00 after the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate and the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place at the meeting on 29 December. Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. The request for a hearing in an exceptional procedure shall require the vote of more than half of the Members. Since the Parliament's current number is 198, i.e. 100 votes are required, a hundred votes yes. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/2403. The discussion of Parliamentary Decision No 1 in an exceptional procedure, according to the timetable set out in the agenda recommendation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not ordered the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 50 votes in favour, 3 against and without abstentions. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] and I declare that the Parliament is not capable of a quorum. I'm going to ask the faction leaders and the staff of the Supreme Security Service to help restore the quorum. [[The Foreman of Novak: Intruders! Dr. András Schiffer: Lajos Kósa is in the hallway!]] Mr. Fraction Manager, I asked the Office Security Service to see if there was anyone in the corridor and ask them to come into the Chamber. [[It's a short break. The First of Novak: Guard! Ágnes Kunhalmi: A Corridor Award should be introduced!]] According to the information we received from the Office Security Service, there is no MP in the corridor. The Parliament cannot decide on the decision to initiate an exceptional procedure [[Dr. András Schiffer: Here is Kósa, for example!]] but we are attempting to vote on the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. [[Szabó Timea:...in the short drink section?]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal on the agenda issued by the President. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: A visible majority!]] All I can tell you is that the Parliament is still inopportune. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're wrong! For signal:]] Deputy Group Leader György Rubovszky asked for the floor.
u2014-12-23-1-15	Mr President, Dear Parliament, With all due respect, the House Rules of Decision 25. § 3 (b) on the basis of the use of the ballot counting machine, the repetition of voting on the agenda. Thank you. [[György Szilágyi: Order of business! An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2014-12-23-1-16	It's not a matter of order, it's on the agenda. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What?]] Any congressman can ask for it, so says the resolution house rule. Thank you very much. I'll order the push-button vote. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to vote on whether the agenda for the sitting tabled in the power of president will be adopted. Anyone who accepts, please vote. [[Vote.]] The situation remains the same: 50 yes, 3 with no vote, without abstention, Parliament is not entitled to a resolution. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: The House Committee must be convened!]] But that means that, since the Parliament did not accept the exceptional procedure, the meeting on 29 December will accordingly not take place. I can't speak to anyone in order of business, because there's no accepted... [[Szabó Timea: Thank you! Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] That's not the order of business. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I understand.]] Chief of Staff, read the resolution rules. I am shocked that Mr Schiffer, who is such a well-trained lawyer, is involved in such a court-order debate. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What status did President Rubovszky have?]] Here's your decision-making policy. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the provisions of the House Rules, in the absence of an agreed agenda proposal, no item on the agenda may be discussed. As the Parliament has not adopted the exceptional procedure, I declare from here and now that the 29th sitting will not take place, as appropriate. I will ask the notaries of the Parliament, as well as those in the Chamber, or the hall service, to cross-reference the parliamentary list with those present, and to post it until the next meeting, and to identify the missing ones. Thank you very much. [[Constant interruptions.]] Meeting adjourned. The next meeting of the Parliament will take place today at 12 a.m. Thank you all very much for your appearance. [[The meeting ended at 8:40 p.m.]]
