u2014-10-28-0	Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda today, Mr Sándor Burány, from the MSZP Group, has asked for a speech:. Are you corrupt? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Parliament will begin the debate on tax laws within a special framework within a short period of time. Almost at the same time as the government submitted a proposal for tax laws, scandalous information has come to light in Hungary and abroad. According to these reports, leading state officials in Hungary have been involved in corruption scandals. On that basis, from these senior officials and others? We don't know exactly who's affected by this? the United States of America has refused entry. An entire country has been asking about who these senior officials are since the government and the country have an elemental interest in clarifying this scandalous matter as soon as possible. It doesn't matter whether Hungary is living in Hungary and abroad, because, unfortunately, as in other countries, corruption is happening in our countries, but as in other countries, the authority reacts and strikes quickly, or whether the rumors that have unfortunately been read in a large number of recent weeks and months have been raised to the state level in Hungary. In the context of tax laws, the fact that several newspapers have been writing about the fact that the number one person and deputy of the tax authorities themselves are involved in this ban scandal gives a special light to the whole story. In the context of tax laws and domestic taxation morals, it would be in our primary interest to clarify whether the tax authority, some of the heads of the tax administration, is involved in collecting taxes in Hungary. So far, the government doesn't seem to be in the mood or the time to clear that up. It wouldn't be too complicated in today's world, Mr. Secretary. Call Ildikó Vida, say, Skype? Is this free today? Something like this: Hello, Ildikó, I'm Andrew, tell me if you're involved in the scandal. If the answer to that is, dear Andrew, I am not involved, then you, Mr. Secretary of State, must answer that? Instead of your minister, if you're replacing him? That's okay, all right, give me a thousand, please, a statement, because this thing needs to be cleared immediately. Or there could be another case: yes, Andrew, unfortunately I'm on the list of those banned. In that case, you, Mr Secretary of State, should be told that I will make a proposal to Minister Mihály Varga immediately to initiate an internal investigation immediately, to report to the police immediately, because according to the law, it is mandatory for all suspicions within the state administration and immediately suspend you from your job for the duration of the investigation and procedure. I'm sorry, but that's what I have to do, whether you're on vacation or not. That didn't happen. Mihály Varga, who has time to make a phone call when he orders an immediate check on TV channels he doesn't like, didn't have time for this phone. I look forward to hearing from the Secretary of State whether he could fit into his working time. A few minutes would be all we need to know, and we should be aware of important consequences. In this context, I would like to say that in Hungary, the government cannot expect decently taxed citizens to pay the tax fairly if the NAV itself, its number one leader, is involved in a corruption scandal. It is therefore in our primary interest to clarify this issue. Especially because scandal or no scandal, the Internet that you want to introduce, can't be supported under any circumstances. Not economic policy, not after what happened, in a moral sense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian Socialist Party has chosen a special way of resurrection, as after several lost elections, they will obviously pursue a new policy, as promised. The essence of the new policy, at least based on yesterday's experience and today's experience, is that, without any evidence, they are saying things about the government, about government officials that are lies. It is a lie that corruption has reached the NAV, and it is a lie that corruption has risen to the state level in Hungary. The MSZP has also chosen a way of attacking the government by organising a protest, of course hiding behind civil society organisations, where they have reached the point where a series of crimes have been carried out by the people involved in the protest. There's no evidence, no personnel, but there's news, and there's a statement. It's the MSZP method. But, if I may say so, Congressman, you have obviously expressed your political desire in this country without being specific, so that you can say that about the government. You can tell me, but you don't have any proof. If you don't mind, I'll give you a few specifics that relate to your party. The first is the Zuschlag case. Specific? It's specific. Corruption? Corruption. Did János Zuschlag get his sentence as a former MSZP representative? You got it. Did you download it? You downloaded it. The second is the Hunvald case. , where it is known which financial transactions were carried out at the BKV. Miklós Hagyó and Csaba Horváth have been asked to resign as deputy mayor. The proceedings are in progress against an ex-MSZP politician. Or the Moscow real estate panama, where 17 billion dollars were damaged by the sale of the property to the state. We could continue the line, but I'd like to mention two more. In the Sukoro case, an untrue value swap occurred at the expense of the State, causing damage to the State of HUF 1.3 billion. And we could continue with a well-known MSZP politician, György Hunvald, who is the capital of VII. He was the socialist mayor of his district. You know the charges against him and the court judgments. [[9.10]] Honourable Congressman, Before you make accusations against people you don't know, look inside yourself, take sides. We are talking about court judgments, concrete ones. Your government has done nothing in eight years to suppress or eliminate corruption. If I may, I would like to say a few things, some of the decisions that this government has made, in order to prevent the Fidesz-KDNP government, such as VAT fraud. For example, the extension of reverse VAT, which was a very successful decision, but unfortunately the European Union does not support this system. This is the introduction of online cash registers: more than 170 thousand cash registers are now operating in trade, which is clearly served? Are the results showing? the whitening of the economy; or the electronic road traffic control system in the draft tax law just submitted, which will follow the path of goods and products where fraud is suspected. And I could list the many, many measures that do prove that this government is doing everything it can to combat fraud and corruption. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Mátyás Firtl, KDNP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The restoration of the Nagycenk chapel can be the most dignified beginning of the development of Széchenyi heritage. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-5	Mr President, Dear House, The divine Providence divided our great ones in different parts of our country. Upper Hungary has Ference Rákóczi and Lajosa Kossuth, Gábor Bethlen and Mihalya Teleki of Transylvania, Ference Deák, István Tisza of Biharvány of the county of Zala? I want us to stay with the statesmen. Thus we have the largest Hungarian of a thousand years of Sopron County: Count István Széchenyi. We can say that István Széchenyi belongs to the whole country, but we of Sopron County are making a strange just. (...) If we lived in the heroic age of Christianity, do I think he would have chosen her as the patron of Sopron County? Writes József Östör, representative of the National Assembly of Sopron County in the last century's 20s, who is also known as Széchenyi-researcher. Ladies and gentlemen, We Sopron County are proud of the greatest Hungarian. He is a modern statesman and a role model to follow, whose teaching and principles are fully in line with his working life and his lasting creations. His life's work, his active patriotism and his nation's love is a timely and up-to-date example, as he served the interests, benefit and future of the nation as a result of the power of the value-creating spirit. The leader of the Reform Day, one of the greatest political figures ever lived, spent important, decisive, creative years of his life in Cenken and Sopron. Not only could Sopron and the former county of Sopron be a happy part of his work, but also the future of the entire nation. This is why I am pleased that the Hungarian Government has been giving special attention to the preparation of the restoration and development of Széchenyi memorial sites and the Széchenyi heritage. Dear House, Since I considered it my duty in the House of Parliament to renovate the Széchenyi Monument in Nagycenk, the Széchenyi Castle, the Széchenyi Heritage and? pointing out the need to restore spirituality, they followed the government's promise within the shortest time, which I thank you for this time. Thus, on a recent visit, we confirmed with Secretary of State L. Simon that the former chapel of the Széchenyi people was in an unacceptably unworthy state. In the anti-church pro-state period, was nothing sacred to power? Not even the ordained chapel? So they use it as a carpenter's workshop and other toilets to this day. Today's state is a disgrace at the moment as an unworthy part of the largest Hungarian heritage. Restore the original function of the chapel as soon as possible, honoring Széchenyi's true faith, his unwavering patriotism, his example of life serving the Hungarian country, is our faith and patriotic duty. In this place, perhaps, he could ask for the strength of the greatest Hungarians for his work and service. Therefore, he and the nation would be a sign of appreciation, a sign of our self-esteem, to restore the chapel as soon as possible. What is more, it is our duty to serve the true Christian faith, the fulfillment of which can give us the strength to continue our common building work in the worthy restoration of the Széchenyi heritage and in the uplifting and completion of Hungary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The renovation of the chapel can be the most worthy beginning of the Széchenyi heritage renovation. A more worthy, symbolic and genuine act than the restoration of the chapel could hardly be carried out at the launch of major renovation processes as its overture. In the beginning of the renovation of István Széchenyi's former residence, the restoration of the chapel and the return of its original function as a first step as an act of prayer would indicate the values of which we intend to build our work, the force which also guided and encouraged István Széchenyi in the service of the nation. To do this, I ask the government's support that the chapel, bearing the message of the power of faith as part of the Széchenyi memorials [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As a worthy national pilgrimage place, you can strengthen national consciousness, national love in visitors. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties, the LMP and the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Zoltán Kovács wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-28-7	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Honourable Congressman, The central aim of the government and all the relevant actors in the region is that one of the key sites of our national heritage, as you mentioned, will be given the role and value of the Nagycenki monument ensemble, which preserves its largest Hungarian memory, worthy of the role of the Széchenyi family in the history of our nation. Therefore, in the summer of this year, the government decided that the trust rights of Széchenyi monuments on Nagycen should be transferred to the Eszterháza Cultural, Research and Festival Center. It is important for society as a whole to preserve memories of great importance for national memory and historical heritage, for example, to achieve value expansion, presentation, education and dissemination of knowledge, to manage and manage a single asset, to develop programme and system network rather than point-to-point local developments. The government has recently transferred significant resources to the development of the Nagycenk Monument Ensemble. The opening of this multi-annual work was the opening of a permanent exhibition about István Széchenyi, but we will soon restore the Mausoleum Széchenyi with HUF 127 million, while the reconstruction of the Széchenyi István Memorial Museum and the comprehensive renovation and rehabilitation of the monument complex will provide HUF 100 million from the budget. The use of grants will start immediately upon completion of the procurement procedures. [[9.20]] In connection with the renewal of the Nagycenk castle ensemble, the situation of the castle chapel's stepfather has so far received little attention. As you mentioned, the two-storey chapel is connected to the eastern end of the Baroque main building completed in 1750, which won its final form until 1945 in 1799 and 1800 when Count Ferenc Széchényi had his castle transformed and expanded in a classic, late Baroque style. It is an irreplaceable loss that the building of the castle, together with the library and the archives, was almost completely destroyed in 45-46. During the renovation of the castle between 1971-73, the chapel was modified, as you mentioned, and partly a room was built in this part of the building that served as a museum. The airspace was separated by an iron concrete bed. Today, the building has a projector and a service apartment. During this visit, we informed about the situation of the chapel, and the government is determined to reconstruct the chapel during the renewal of the castle ensemble. We want to use EU funds for this. In the EU budget period 2014-20, tourism will be an important area of economic recovery, as it will contribute to job creation, the strengthening of small businesses in the tourism and catering sectors, and the increase in the number of visitors. As you have said, by developing our country's historical and cultural historical memories in a coherent way, the government intends to exploit this economic resource in such a way that the values of our cultural heritage can be developed locally. The investments made in the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd in recent years have proved that using our heritage with an appreciation and fresh view can create not only national but also international value. I believe that in the restoration of the Széchényi Castle, the key institution of the government, the Eszterháza Centre, will be an excellent partner, and I trust that we can count on everyone to achieve our efforts to develop and rebuild the Széchényi legacy and to care for the legacy, including the support of the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-10-28-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, To speak also before the agenda, Mrs Dóra Dúró, from the Jobbik Group, spoke with the title 'Bad'. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-28-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the section on funding in the strategy document entitled Higher Education, we read on page 71 that direct State aid cannot be significantly increased in the coming years. This is a very serious sentence on the part of a government for higher education, but it is certainly unacceptable for any other sector. I am very sorry that the government thinks so, and it is even more regrettable that they dare to write this down in such a strategic document. This is the only sentence that makes a lot of commitments that this document, which is intended for the strategy, makes it quite frivolous. This includes expanding access to doctoral schools, increasing the number of graduates, or teaching wage planning in higher education, but if the state does not invest in higher education, this will not be possible, even though the state is worth starting higher education in the current system, which, in fact, requires many changes. Today, it is worth it to the state to have more graduates in Hungary, since later this will be paid about ten times in tax revenues. This does not mean, of course, that the funding system for higher education cannot be improved, but the unacceptable approach is that we want to achieve results in a way that the state refuses to invest. It is also stated in the document that they want to involve market resources, which is correct and eligible to a certain extent, but there is a need to be careful that market participants are not exposed and vulnerable to higher education, and unfortunately we cannot find a guarantee in the document. It is also unacceptable that they want to build on student loans instead of scholarships, which is also included in this document. I don't think it's possible for a young person to get out of college with millions of dollars in debt already. The government's intention is not to reverse the demographic crisis, for example, to provide a solution for young people, but, on the one hand, it does not contain any demographic calculations at all, therefore, it cannot be taken seriously even by the target date of 2030, but it is important to stop migration and to show young people a perspective if they do not come out of the university with debts on their necks. The introduction of the Chancellor's system, which is already permitted by this adopted law, is another element which is unacceptable to us. It is very interesting what the Prime Minister himself said about the appointment of Chancellors. On July 18th, on Kossuth Radio's 180-minute show, he said the following question: "Do you know who you're going to appoint?" Orbán replied: "Yes, I am waiting for some of them and others for suggestions. The problem is that the Prime Minister knew who he was going to appoint to the head of the universities on 18 July, but the application was issued only after that. So it is not even that the tender has not been completed, but the chancellor's applications have not yet been published, the Prime Minister already knew who they would be who would fill these very important positions. An honest diagnosis is also missing from this more of a document called an idea fair. They simply cannot face the current situation of higher education, and they are therefore not faced with the fact that the Orbán governments are also responsible for creating this situation. The fact that they do not want to invest more public money in higher education is also very serious in the light of the fact that ten billion have been withdrawn from this sector in the last cycle, which they will not, let alone replace, but preserve this state. Jobbik's program was called before the election, "We'll say it." We'll figure it out. But you won't even get to say what the problems are and make the right diagnosis. They put a gearing lever on the front page of this document, but when I read it, I thought more of a verse of the song Tale Car, and unfortunately, I think that the secretary of state or the members of the government could even hum it, while they adopted this strategy, which says: . It's probably just a dream, and after the happiness, the reality will be on my feet tomorrow. I'm not waking up yet. I beg you, oh, my God, let me keep dreaming of this beautiful miracle. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-28-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr László Palkovics, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-28-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My first speech to Parliament in my life, and I am glad that it has the transmission in its title, because my activities so far have been linked to the automotive industry, but that is not why the transmission is on the front page of the document, but because of what we have described in this document. It is very important to note that this document is a summary of the search for the past few years, which we have added. The document itself is not a strategy, it contains directives, and the strategy will be agreed with the round table. The members of the Round Table received this document, and until 5 November, the current members of the Round Table will consult with the institutions of their interests and present an opinion agreed. This will be the strategy that will be put before the government at the end of the year. The document contains a lot of things, and I would not consider this to be an idea fairy-tale car or a fantasy car, but, in any case, a detailed and factual list of the problems that the Hungarian higher education system is facing at the moment. I believe that the initial part of the document clearly contains the kind of situational analysis that characterizes Hungarian higher education and contains the kind of idea of what Hungarian higher education will look like in 2030. A higher education system is not a large dynamic organization, because if we intervene today, we will see the result for the first time in five years. Therefore, such a strategy should be developed for a longer period of time. [[9.30]] There are a lot of elements in this strategy that the Congresswoman has not mentioned, although I have certainly considered some positive elements in her speech. He started his speech with funding. I think funding is a very important element of the strategy, and if we read the relevant part of the document? Is this another detailed document? So, the document says that there's a drop in student numbers? And I think that we have to face it at all? the level of financing and direct public funding will not change. If we look at the total budget of Hungarian higher education, this has not changed in nominal terms since 2008. It has not changed because, although direct State aid has indeed decreased in proportion to the number of students, the government has created a situation for universities, in fact increasing the robustness of the system, and robustness is not increased by State aid, not by direct State aid, but by the kind of opportunity, the ability that universities have to raise their own income to levels that make them less dependent on other effects. I do not want to refer to foreign examples of where this looks, one thing is certain, in the last chapter of the document, the measures that the government will take in order to put the institutions in a position, and indeed they can make use of the kind of knowledge for society, for the economy to a large extent, and at the same time partly to finance themselves. I think that this is an important feature of higher education institutions, because this is how they can measure themselves, and this is how they will be able to finance their activities for a long, long time. Of course, there are not only external resources in this, there are additional Community resources. The document also shows that the government intends to create the same opportunity for basic research, exploration research, and thus 10% of the current direct support of the institutional system, which we intend to award to researchers and research groups on the basis of excellence. This is definitely a new element. Do we want to put the Hungarian higher education institutions in a position to ensure that in the next seven years of EU support? One of the key words of which I think innovation is the most important key word? they can support and help the Hungarian companies that we want to expect in the coming period. I think that this is a very important element for both financing and the country's economy. My time is running out. I think that, in order to fulfil this task, we need an institutional governance model where higher education institutions are responsible for managing it, and partly because of the creation of an opportunity and partly because of governance. One of the elements and only one of the elements of this is the introduction of the Chancellor's system, which was eventually created by the amendment of the law. The Chancellors, I think, will be appointed in the next few days. Here, it is clearly expected that the Chancellors will be able to carry out the management and economic management of universities in a transparent, transparent way, in the interests of the university. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, from the LMP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. What will happen to you, civil sector? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2014-10-28-13	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I never thought that Hungarian civil society organisations would once have the same fate as Bulgarian, Romanian, Albanian or Mečiar Slovakia's civil society organisations. After the change of regime, there were countries whose governments did not help their civil society organisations, their programmes, saying that they would not then be independent, seek support from the population or apply for foreign funds. Some countries, such as Hungary, considered the civil sphere important, understood that without civil society organisations, it cannot be a real democracy, that the operation of local communities and the preservation of local traditions are impossible without civil society organisations. For many years I have been proud of domestic practice because a support system has been built that has been able to provide central resources for the functioning of civil society organisations and support their programmes in a policy-neutral manner. A good example is the development of the Hungarian environment and nature conservation movement in connection with the support system. These civil society organisations, including a number of small local groups, have been able to take on major public tasks in the field of environmental and nature protection for a decade and a half after the change of regime, for which there was no government capacity or even expertise. The support practice of environmental civil society organisations has demonstrated that it is possible to allocate resources to civilians on a policy-neutral basis based on professional considerations. Today, these sources are almost gone. The grant of more than 1 billion dollars, managed by the Ministry of Béla Turi-Kovács ten years ago, is now less than HUF 100 million, even though where is the few billion forints from the HUF 200 billion grant to the MNB's foundations. I come from the environmental civil sector with more than 20 years of civil history behind my back, so I know this movement well, but I can safely say that it is also true for the other civil sectors that, if we consider it to be an investment, they create a multiple in value. These civil society organisations take on public tasks in the fields of social, health, education and the environment, tasks that the state cannot perform for many reasons, but are essential to the normal lives of people. At the beginning of the millennium, a great initiative on the whole of the civil sector, the National Civil Fund, was established, which has now been transformed by the majority of the government, and cannot be recognised. Between 2004 and 2008, a total of HUF 33 billion was distributed over five years to more than 50,000 applications, i.e. HUF 6.5 billion per year. The proposals were evaluated by colleges chosen by civil society organisations. The government delegates practically just checked the legal operation and distribution, didn't interfere with the decision. Under the Fidesz regime, the National Civil Fund became a National Cooperation Fund with an annual budget of approximately HUF 3 billion, or half of the NCA, and decisions are made by a government majority and, in the opinion of many, by political considerations. This is an opportunity, since there are six government delegates and only three civilians elected in the colleges of the National Cooperation Fund. For the following reasons, the LMP submitted a legislative proposal to support environmental civil society organisations. 1. Due to the deterioration of the institutional system, resources and professional capacity of environmental protection, there is a greater need for the survival and programmes of environmental and environmental civil society organisations than ever before. 2. The government should not expose domestic civil society organisations to finding resources for their operations and programmes only abroad, as domestic society is not prepared to fund programmes of environmental civil society organisations. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-28-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Miklós Soltész wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-28-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the one hand, I think it is very right and it is good to have someone working or working in civil society organisations and then taking on a political role, but that should not be denied. Because you started by working in a place like this, and now you're a politician as an LMP congressman. It's okay in itself, but it would be nice if you didn't slip me in a lot of ways, you wouldn't say in many ways about this government that it's anti-civil, which is what a few dozen people are trying to set up. I thank you, by the way, for admitting that the form of civil support has indeed been transformed, but you have failed to mention two things. One of the important things is that, beyond the scope and assistance of the Civil Code within the National Cooperation Fund, which organised all kinds of support schemes for civil society organisations, in addition to this in social, educational and health areas, tens of billions, and even if you look at the last few years, civil society organisations have received support in the order of HUF 100 billion, which have actually taken over tasks from local governments and states that have complemented state and local government work. It's part of the civilian world. I would also like to tell you that over the past few years, precisely because we have transformed this whole system, more than 8,000 civil society organisations have received a grant of HUF 12 billion, which is a huge grant and a huge amount of money. [[9.40]] Contrary to your partial criticism, you have a Member sitting right behind you, and with the help of a Member who spoke in a letter, that it is not worth supporting the Eco-partner and related organisations, because they cover liberal organisations that cannot always be accepted. That's what you said. And these organizations, by the way, a few dozen, twenty-three people, for example, received HUF 800 million in 2013. The Kehi investigation covered this area and clearly demonstrated that these few dozen NGOs didn't operate that way, didn't they receive the grants? Was the money distributed within their own decision-making mechanism? As is the case with the National Cooperation Fund, or what can be expected in relation to funds from the European Union, grants, as well as grants from the Norwegian Fund. That's a big problem. If you had given this criticism here in Parliament, we might have agreed, and I think this criticism, was fully supported by the Kehi investigation. It is interesting that two dozen NGOs are making such a fuss and such trouble, while more than 50,000 NGOs are operating in Hungary today, and volunteering is not from hundreds of millions of forints, not from tens of millions of forints, but from someone who is absolutely free, actually one of the fundamental issues of civilian life. What I do know is that you liberals are used to this. [[Erzsébet Schmuck's intervention.]] that they have always received in the last decades the tens of millions of grants that others would like to receive, or have submitted applications, but have always been swept down by the leaders of your political interests. You're blowing your head off, Congresswoman, but if you can believe left-wing news portals, if you can believe them, because it's a different question, and I can't even quote who said it, but you're saying about the congressman that over the past few years his civil organization has received funds to support 25 million forints in one year, 77 million forints in the next year, 121 million forints, then 421 million forints in the next year. Others got a fraction. If they got 100,000 forints per grant, they'd be happy, especially if they got a million-dollar grant. In comparison, you often defend civil society organisations that, let's say, have implemented a Love Park from the Norwegian Fund. Is it normal? You can't shake your head, Congresswoman. That's what happened. They're using money for anti-government protests? Is that normal to you? Do you think that if Hungary, say in Norway, supported such civil society organisations, could use such funds for anti-government demonstrations there, and would they accept it, or would any other state accept it? So, when you speak for civil society organisations, you speak only for the benefit of a few dozen civil society organisations, liberal and LMP-related civil society organisations, and you are not interested in the work of more than 50,000 civil society organisations and your everyday activities. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: You have no idea what you're talking about, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Thank you so much for bringing this up. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, from the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-28-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Violence, vandalism, broken windows, torn down, damaged rollers, broken down, damaged fences, assaulting journalists? All this happened at the end of the Sunday protest, organized against the expansion of the telecommunications tax by people calling themselves civilians. Same faces and the same methods. First of all, let us say that any form of violence is unacceptable. Fidesz is open to debate, has always been open to debate, but violence, vandalism, cannot be an administrator and organizer of any kind of dispute. Has Mr Antal Rogán already tabled his amendments to the bill on the extension of the telecommunications tax yesterday? according to this, private individuals can have a maximum of HUF 700 per month, and the subject of the tax is the telecommunications company, which cannot pass on the tax payable. But let's get back to the demonstration. Who organized this protest? The main organizer is Balázs Gulyás, a member of the supervisory board of a local government company in Józsefváros, and he is the son of Zita Gurmai, a socialist. But let's get back to what happened at Fidesz. We'll find someone we know among the attackers. According to our press reports, one of the russians is in custody on Milán Rózsa. Milán Rózsa tried to take over the Lendvay Street headquarters once before, took part in the operation at that time. By the way, these are the activists who organized student medals in HaHa and, by the way, they also jumped at Alexander's Palace, stretching Molinos. In the disturbance, in the break-and-breaking, these people have had practice, routine. Balliberian, socialist politicians have recently preferred to disguise themselves as civilians. The Socialists are aware that if they organised something under their own name, people would not go to these meetings, because they do not like to be seen with them. Within six months, they lost three elections, suffered a severe defeat. There's a total failure on the left, no credibility in front of the people, so they're trying to get on the back of civilians. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] We're used to it, it's the old-fashioned way: attack the Fidesz headquarters, break everything! The socialist organizer washes his hands because, as he says, all this happened after the protest was over. But there is no doubt that all this was planned. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] They didn't tell me about the stage directly, but the organization was targeted. What did they ask the protesters to do? Bring with you used IT tools, because that will be necessary, and then, at the end of the demonstration, the protesters were released to go home, right next to the Fidesz headquarters, which was there, 100 meters away. Why would they carry monitors, IT devices, across the city, a demonstration, just a hundred meters from the Fidesz headquarters? To get out of control. This is their problem management, violence and vandalism since 2006. For the socialists and liberals, conflict management is equal to violence, vandalism, hiding behind civilian masks for some time now. So the same methods and the same tools. Fidesz rejects violence and vandalism. We have patience in listening to other people's arguments and opinions. We strongly refuse to try to resolve disputes in such a brutal way, and we also ask the political organisations that were in the background to do so. The Hungarian people want peace and security. No one asks for actions, unfortunately well-known, where they break and break, arson and abuse journalists instead of arguments and sanity. Let me compare: these vandals caused 10 million HUF damage at the Fidesz building on Lendvay Street. If you look at the fact that a maximum of 700 forints per month should be paid to the Internet tax, then if you calculate 1200 years of Internet tax, these vandals at the Lendvay Street headquarters have caused damage. Well, it was worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, We can't let anyone break, crush, vandalize behind them with politicians. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] whoever's behind all this! [[Sándor Burány's intervention.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-18	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Now, that'll be a nice answer.]]
u2014-10-28-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary is an independent democratic rule of law, which is based on the fact that no one is above the law. The Fundamental Law of Hungary states that everyone has the right to peaceful assembly, everyone has the right to freedom of expression. But no one has the right to violate the law, to carry out vandal acts, to destroy, to destroy, to terrorize other people. [[9.50]] Those who have broken the law have committed a crime and must bear the consequences. We reject violence and vandalism. Violence is totally unacceptable and all its forms are both unacceptable. We have to negotiate, we have to argue, we will, we are always ready to debate. [[Sándor Burány: You don't say?]] Sunday events were due to a bill whose parliamentary debate had not yet begun. We accept the expression of opinion in a peaceful demonstration, but the use of vandal behaviour and violence, which took place on Sunday evening, is totally unacceptable. The vandalism that led to the demonstration was shocking. Violence, vandalism, destruction can't be a solution to anything, it's not a way to settle disputes. It is outrageous that some protesters, abusing the fundamental rights of expression, roughly attacked the building of the Fidesz headquarters, broke its windows, blinds, and damaged its fence. Due to violations on the ground, the police have already questioned and detained six suspects. Against them, the Budapest Police Department is prosecuting a criminal offence in breach of Section 339 of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code. They will be brought to justice in accordance with the laws in force. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As you said, the people involved are not football hooligans, as left-wing parties are trying to adjust. Their political attachment is clear. Was the organizer previously politicalized in the Yoga City organization of MSZP, and familyly? Just like you told me? member of the family of one of the former Members of the Parliament or of the European Parliament of the MSZP. One person in custody is an activist of the Joint-PM, whose course of unlawful conduct is already well known to the public and the public. Dear Parliament, The police have ensured the restoration of order peacefully but decisively. He has captured the perpetrators and will provide adequate protection for everyone in the future. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP.]] Police guarantee the right of defence, fighting crime prevention [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And the capture of criminals. The police every day of the year...
u2014-10-28-20	My fellow Members, please? I beg your pardon, Mr. Secretary? We're not having a dialogue, Mr. Secretary of State is responding. We count the time frame, you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-28-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Every day of the year, at every time of the day, in Budapest and in the countryside, the police act decisively in the interests of life and property security, public order and public security. Hungary needs order, peace and peace, and the government will guarantee that in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-28-22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches before the agenda have come to an end. The 2013 CCXL on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and detention of infringements follows. General debate on the amendment of law and related legislation until closure. The submission was made in T/1707. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-10-28-23	[[No microphones.]] Mr President, Dear House, As part of the comprehensive judicial reform that started in recent years, the Parliament adopted in 2013 the Act on the Enforcement of Punishments, Measures, Certain Forced Measures and Detentions, the Penalty Enforcement Act, which replaced the Legislative Decree on the Enforcement of Punishments and Measures as of 1 January 2015. The purpose of the bill before you is, in part, to adapt the related laws to the provisions of the new Code of Correction.
u2014-10-28-24	My apologies, Minister, your microphone doesn't work, I've got this signal. Please help Minister.
u2014-10-28-25	It's working. You just have to put it on. [[It's happening.]] You want me to start over? You don't need it, do you?
u2014-10-28-26	No, Minister.
u2014-10-28-27	Therefore, as the first and perhaps the most important amendment, I would like to highlight the recasting of the text of the Prison Enforcement Act on several points. The changes to the new Code of Correction can be classified into five main categories. The first includes additions to compliance with international obligations, in particular the requirements of the EU Directive on the right to information in criminal proceedings and laying down rules on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. Our goal was to strengthen victim protection. The second group can be classified as justified amendments on the basis of proposals and comments made by law enforcement since the adoption of the law. Here it is worth highlighting changes to the new system of prison execution. Are these, on the one hand, the bodies involved in the implementation process? Court, National Correctional Command, Correctional Institute? ensure more efficient communication and information flows between Member States. The other part of the amendments in this area aims at the effective functioning of the system: for example, the amendment of the rules of access to documents and reproduction, the settlement of the question of interruption of sentences, the regulation of the knowledge of the prisoner's summary report. This is also the context for the transformations, which mainly concern authorised provisions, which have been crystallised as a result of discussions on the development of regulation at regulation level linked to the Prison Enforcement Act. The third group consists of corrections that facilitate interpretation of the law and remedy the minor contradictions and inaccuracies existing in the current text of the law. The fourth group includes amendments that are necessary due to changes in patronage supervision in the meantime. Government decree on the tasks and powers of the members of the government 25. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act referred the organisation and management of protective custody activities related to the execution of sentences to the Minister of the Interior. On this basis, the government's tasks related to the probationary supervisory activities will now be divided between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Prison Enforcement, while the uniform organisational framework of the probationary supervisory activities will be changed so far. In view of this, it has become necessary to supplement the law and to define the duties of the prison guardians. It is also formally linked with the prison law to the regulation of a special pardon procedure for those sentenced to actual life imprisonment. Dear Parliament, The institution of actual life imprisonment has been attacked and attacked by many in certain circles. The European Court of Human Rights has also formulated its criticisms in its decisions and even the case pending before the Constitutional Court is a judicial initiative. During my hearing as a minister, I also stressed that I, as the Minister of Justice, have nothing against actual life imprisonment, and those who committed the most serious crimes must be punished with the most severe rigour of the law. In Hungary, the number of people actually sentenced to life imprisonment does not exceed 40 people. During my hearing as a minister, in May, I indicated that there was a constitutional solution that could give an appropriate answer to the criticisms of the Strasbourg Court. I have studied in detail before the solution that I am now proposing, we have studied all the decisions of the Strasbourg Court on this subject, so that the proposal that we have just put forward must be assessed in the light of all of this and, in my view, it stands the test of constitutionality. The provisions of the proposal state that in the case of persons sentenced to life imprisonment, which is excluded from the possibility of parole, special non-application procedures should be carried out. In doing so, does the Hungarian legal system fulfil the requirement of the European Court of Human Rights in its judgment of 20 May 2014 in the case of Magyar v. Hungary, that there should also be a procedure by which there should be effective imprisonment? if the term of imprisonment has already passed for a sufficient length of time? it may be examined whether the criminal policy reasons for the punishment continue to exist. [[10.00]] Paragraph 2 of the Act referred the Minister of the Interior to the organisation and management of protective custody activities in connection with the execution of sentences. On this basis, the government's tasks related to the probationary supervisory activities will now be divided between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Prison Enforcement, while the uniform organisational framework of the probationary supervisory activities will be changed so far. In view of this, it has become necessary to supplement the law and to define the duties of the prison guardians. It is also formally linked with the prison law to the regulation of a special pardon procedure for those sentenced to actual life imprisonment. Dear Parliament, The institution of actual life imprisonment has been attacked and attacked by many in certain circles. The European Court of Human Rights has also formulated its criticisms in its decisions and even the case pending before the Constitutional Court is a judicial initiative. During my hearing as a minister, I also stressed that I, as the Minister of Justice, have nothing against actual life imprisonment, and those who committed the most serious crimes must be punished with the most severe rigour of the law. In Hungary, the number of people actually sentenced to life imprisonment does not exceed 40 people. During my hearing as a minister, in May, I indicated that there was a constitutional solution that could give an appropriate answer to the criticisms of the Strasbourg Court. I have studied in detail before the solution that I am now proposing, we have studied all the decisions of the Strasbourg Court on this subject, so that the proposal that we have just put forward must be assessed in the light of all of this and, in my view, it stands the test of constitutionality. The provisions of the proposal state that in the case of persons sentenced to life imprisonment, which is excluded from the possibility of parole, special non-application procedures should be carried out. In doing so, does the Hungarian legal system fulfil the requirement of the European Court of Human Rights in its judgment of 20 May 2014 in the case of Magyar v. Hungary, that there should also be a procedure by which there should be effective imprisonment? if the term of imprisonment has already passed for a sufficient length of time? it may be examined whether the criminal policy reasons for the punishment continue to exist. (10.00) The new compulsory grace procedure must be initiated on its own initiative. The opening of proceedings shall be conditional upon the sentenced person serving 40 years of the sentence imposed. The judgment in Strasbourg did not specify the earliest date after which a review of a life sentence excluding conditional leave would have to be carried out. The draft therefore sets this date for legal reasons and for the coherence of the Hungarian legal system. In the judgment, the Court of Strasbourg objected to the fact that, under the Hungarian legislation, when a final sentence was handed down, it was sentenced to actual life imprisonment that it did not know exactly what aspects the determining bodies and persons were looking at in the pardon proceedings. This deficiency is addressed by this provision of the draft in order to entrust the Minister for Justice with the procurement of the preparatory documents, documents and data necessary for carrying out the compulsory grace procedure to be examined in the course of the decision-making process. The draft also provides for the establishment of a new body, the Committee on Mercy, for the purpose of taking part in the decision-making of a compulsory grace procedure in the case of those sentenced to actual life imprisonment. The members of the Grace Committee shall be appointed by the President of the Curia from among the judges acting in criminal matters; the detailed rules for this shall be laid down in the bill. The members of the Grace Committee will be proposed by the Curia Penal College. Judges may be appointed from among the judges of the Curia and the judges of the Curia. The Grace Committee will be an independent panel of five professional judges. The Minister for Justice shall be bound by the position of the Committee of Mercy when making the application. The Minister is obliged to submit his application to the President of the Republic with the same content as the resolution of the Committee on Mercy. If the President of the Republic does not exercise his or her pardon, then two years from now, he or she shall have his or her own bail pending the imprisonment of the sentenced person for life. The issue of actual life imprisonment is accompanied by great social interest. In the event of this sanction, it is necessary to reconcile, on the one hand, the aspects and spirit of criminal law rigour and, on the other, the humane and legal certainty that appear in the Fundamental Law. I am convinced that, through the chosen solution, the optimal balance has been found between the right to hope, the right for all and the legitimate social need for security. In my opinion, with this solution, we were able to deal with the issue, since the Fundamental Law knows the right to mercy, and indeed. The following is the subject of the bill: the amendment of the Criminal Code by the bill is partly justified by the resolution of the problems of interpretation of the law, and this is what we have included in it. The proposal clarifies, as regards violent multiple relapsers, the cases in which compulsory life imprisonment can be imposed, and also clarifies the rules for imposing a set sentence against this category of relapsers. The Btk.? Annex IV, 1978. By way of derogation from the provisions of the law? determine the earliest date of conditional release, not in relation to the degree of imprisonment, but depending on the criminal record of the sentenced person. For the application of the law, there may be a problem that, in the case of total penalties, this innovation has not been fully photographed and, therefore, in the interests of clarity, the issue should be settled by introducing a new paragraph. In addition to the above, the amendment Btk. makes it clear that our country complies with the requirements of the EU Directive on attacks against information systems by means of two clarification rules and a legislative harmonisation clause. Third, it is necessary to highlight the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was based, inter alia, on compliance with EU requirements. In this context, it was necessary to lay down the requirements for informing those in vulnerable situations in one place in the law and the provisions on the right to and conditions for the use of personal legal aid in Be. The amendment was also justified in order to ensure the coherence of the internal legal order and to ensure uniform case-law. During the codification work of the Prison Enforcement Act, it was an important objective to establish a code of purely enforcement law, and therefore the rules governing enforcement issues in other laws have been reviewed and the rules of the Bv. to build it into law. As a result? to prevent parallel regulation? it has become necessary to repeal the provisions of criminal proceedings to be transposed into the prison law. It also serves to harmonise the law on infringements, infringement procedures and the system of registration of infringements and the provisions on soldiers in criminal proceedings. In this context, the submission shall specify when, which organ is entitled to act against a soldier. Finally, the new provision in criminal proceedings which clearly states that the sentenced person's consent to the execution of the overall penalty procedure may be revoked until the judgment of first instance is taken into account. Number four. The amendment of the law on the criminal record system, the registration of judgments against Hungarian citizens by the courts of the Member States of the European Union and the registration of criminal and police biometric data affects three main directions. Some provisions seek to develop international cooperation, for example by clearly recording the data transfer and data request steps following a hit in the case of international cooperation, clarifying the role of the International Crime Cooperation Centre in the exchange of information, providing for the possibility of electronic data transmission to the designated central authority of another EU Member State. Other provisions seek to improve the system of registration, for example by establishing a register of persons entitled to use the criminal record system, by simplifying procedures for an official certificate of morality. Finally, some changes are motivated by consistency with internal law, such as the Law on the Rules of Protection of Persons and Property and Private Investigators and changes to the changing rules of the Law on Law Enforcement. The fifth. The Directive on the European Protection Order was adopted by the Member States at the end of 2011. The deadline for transposition of the Directive expires on 11 January 2015. This means that, in order to ensure that Hungary is not automatically subject to infringement proceedings due to delay, the transposition provisions should enter into force until that date. The law on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union should be amended for transposition. Finally, the bill also includes amendments to certain laws falling within the competence of the Ministry of Interior. Among these, it is necessary to highlight the amendment to the law on the police, which establishes rules for the enforcement of public security detention and, for reasons of crime prevention and security, allows the use of an image recording device in the area of the production unit and the police detention unit, and, thirdly, constitutes a single authorisation provision for detention in police detention. The amendment of the law on the prison organisation clarifies the scope of the coercive measures and allows for the organisation of traumatic and irritating ammunition which cannot be used to kill life, complements or alters the rules on the use of firearms and contacts with the prisoner. Finally, in this context, it is worth mentioning the amendment to the law on infringements, infringement procedures and the system of registration of infringements, which creates detailed rules for the enforcement of detention. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The codification of the bill presented briefly was accompanied by a serious conciliation process. In addition to communicating with the wallets concerned, the Ministry of Justice took great care to take into account the experience and observations of the case-law. It was an important point to make proposals to eliminate innovative and existing anomalies that aim to ensure the effectiveness of the application of the law part of the proposal. I trust that the proposal for a law that has been drawn up is not just for bv. It will serve to transpose the innovations of the law through related laws and to comply with international requirements, but will also facilitate the work of the law enforcement staff. That's why I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[10.10]]
u2014-10-28-28	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on the bill before us, given that the primary objective of the proposal is to harmonise the legislation relating to criminal enforcement with the law on criminal justice in substance and form. This Code of Criminal Enforcement was adopted in 2013 by the Parliament, which set the prison execution on a new basis. Compared to previous regulations, the provisions in force place greater emphasis, inter alia, on reintegration, individualised implementation, more effective education and employment. During the creation of the Code, it was essential to put the complex multi-purpose system of prison implementation on a basis that adequately serves the protection of society and also provides an opportunity to build, educate and adapt to the life of prisoners. As a result of these reforms and on the basis of the feedback of one year since adoption, it was necessary, however, to review the related legislation and, in some cases, to amend their provisions. In addition to aligning the content and form of the implementing legislation already mentioned, the proposal therefore aims to bring about a smaller or greater correction and revision of the implementing legislation, based on the experience gained by law enforcement in recent years. In view of this, the proposal amends the Criminal Enforcement Act itself on several points. On the one hand, it contains the necessary additions to comply with the international obligation and, on the other hand, the proposals made by the law-abiding parties since the adoption of the law, on the basis of comments, and, on the other hand, corrections that help to interpret the law and remedy the minor contradictions and inaccuracies existing in the current text of the law. Finally, it is also necessary to highlight the amendments that have become necessary due to changes in patronage supervision in the meantime. It is also formally linked with the prison law to the regulation of a special pardon procedure for those sentenced to actual life imprisonment. With these provisions, the Hungarian legal system provides the European Commission for Human Rights In its judgment, the Court of Justice held that, in the case of a life sentence, there should be a procedure whereby it can be examined whether the criminal policy grounds for the sentence continue to exist. Minister Trócsányi has devoted more time to this chapter, and I think that this will cause a lot of debate among my fellow Members. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Tell me something about it.]] In addition to the changes that have been listed so far, the bill also amends the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act. These amendments partly address problems of interpretation and partly harmonise legislation and harmonise individual sectoral laws. Finally, in view of the legislative changes that have taken place in the meantime and the changes made to the system, it is also appropriate to amend the Law on Criminal Records. In this context, the proposal seeks to develop international cooperation, the registration system and the intention to internalise the acquis. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I'm asking you to support this motion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-10-28-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the context of the bill before us, I would like to refer three aspects to the attention of my fellow Members, which I will explain later in detail. The first is that we warned you last autumn, my honourable pro-government colleagues, that the government wants you to vote on a semi-finished, essentially unenforceable Code of Correction under the current circumstances. You didn't listen to us, and now you're ashamed, because a few weeks before the entry into force, you're forced to amend the Code through 69 paragraphs. Secondly, the government claims that this bill will bring actual life imprisonment into line with European standards. On the other hand, you're actually eliminating the actual life sentence. In addition, the actual life sentence will be lifted without addressing the legal concerns raised previously. Thirdly, several sections of the bill concern the pardon procedure, but the only question that really needs to be resolved is left untouched: there will still be no public data to whom the President of the Republic pardons. Let's see this in detail. Perhaps my fellow Members on the subject may remember that last November I closed the bv with the following thought. My speech in the debate on the Code of Conduct was:. Despite all its errors, we consider the Penalty Act to be a forward-looking and a good basis for negotiation, but the conditions for entry into force are currently completely lacking. Remediation of this is a non-deferential government task. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The bill that has just been tabled best demonstrates the relevance of these criticisms. This proposal amends more than a third of the bill, paragraph 69. Has there been any feverish work going on in the last few months? Probably at the Home Office? In order to rewrite, clarify, supplement a number of provisions of the new code, from the exercise of the right of access to the file through the introduction of prisoners to the rules of risk assessment and security classification, and we could continue the line for a long time. A few weeks before the entry into force, they want to make the new law work and apply it with this innumerable amount of amendments. It is hardly debatable that bv. Most of the amendments made to the law are justified and appear to have been included in the proposal as a result of substantive professional consideration. The question is why the technical analyses and discussions on the basis of the current amendments could not be carried out by bv. to be carried out before the adoption of the Code. Why did you submit a half-finished law to Parliament last year? What legislative standards are reflected in the fact that before the entry into force, a large number of amendments are required to be made to Bv. A codex? Yes, a bv in force for 40 years. Substitution of the legislation of the Code is a major challenge, but you have received the professional concept of the new code from the government before 2010 and there is no doubt that Bv. the organisation has the expertise to develop new rules. Based on this, the government could have presented a mature and satisfying law to the Parliament. Today, my fellow pro-government Members can see that this is not the case. Not only has the lack of preparation of the law been confirmed in the last year, but unfortunately, the government remained in debt by implementing the personal and material conditions necessary for its implementation. As early as last November, we explained that a fundamental rethink of the criminal policy of the Orbán government was needed before the re-regulation of the enforcement of the sentence. We consider the principles of the so-called dual-gauge criminal policy to be followed. According to this, criminals must be severely punished and indeed excluded from society. At the same time, we consider the application of alternative, educational sanctions and, more importantly, the provision of compensation to victims, victims, to be followed, as opposed to the policy of the Orbán government, which insanely sees in the few days of detention the appropriate sanctions for minor infringements. [[10.20]] However, there is no indication that this misguided approach is exceeded by the government. Unfortunately, the overall modernisation of the prison system is also not on the agenda. Where's the bv. There was no reduction in the congestion of institutions, with average saturation rising from 137 per cent in 2012 to 143 per cent by the end of 2013. In addition, bv. The working conditions of the stock are also terrible. A lot of bv. the institution is able to carry out its basic tasks only with extremely tight farming, using a constant substantial amount of overtime. Meanwhile, the wages of those working in the prison organisation are abnormally low, even though the closed institutional environment, the day-to-day guarding and supervision of prisoners, is a particularly dangerous burden. It is our firm position that immediate and radical salary increases are needed for the executive staff actually carrying out the tasks. This is not just a moral duty, but, in our conviction, a Bv. a basic requirement to ensure the safety of institutions. Unfortunately, however, no substantial progress has been made so far in recent years. Unfortunately, the conclusion that bv is not granted remains valid. the conditions for the entry into force of the Code. Doubts are reinforced by the weight of the proposed amendments now tabled rather than reduced. In the context of the regulation of actual life imprisonment, my pro-government fellow Members face even greater failure. As you know, the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has ruled that it violates the European Convention on Human Rights if the law does not allow a review of life imprisonment at all. But actual life imprisonment means that there is no review. Following the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg, Viktor Orbán said that this should be rejected in the strongest possible terms and that the institution of imprisonment for life should be protected. Well, it seems that after the fight against sovereign debt and the schnapps-freedom fight, this fight has also failed. The adoption of the bill does not preserve it, but abolishes the institution of actual life imprisonment, as it requires every two years, after 40 years of imprisonment, to examine the justification for further imprisonment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not an actual life sentence! Moreover, the solution proposed by the Government would not even stand the test of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and would not remedy the fundamental rights problems raised. Because they would consider the need for further imprisonment of those sentenced to life in a special pardon procedure. The outcome of this is that the President of the Republic can decide on the release at his own discretion. So the final decision can be taken not by an independent court, but by a political player at his discretion. This is completely unacceptable. As a result, the Hungarian State will face another losing lawsuit in Strasbourg if the law is adopted in this way, in this form. So the bill will put an end to actual life imprisonment without remedying even the legal problems that arise. The obvious solution would be for the Supreme Court to review ex officio the need for further deprivation of liberty at regular intervals. The President's right of mercy should be retained in its present form. The third part I wanted to talk about concerns precisely the power of presidential pardon, honourable Members. It is totally unacceptable, and I think that the case law that you have applied in this area in recent years is intolerable for citizens as well. The President of the Republic has the discretion to grant individual pardons. In the course of these proceedings, however, in recent years, you have not presented the reasons for freedom or the granting of grace to the public, nor are you willing to disclose the fact of grace. Such a case was the case of Simon Miklós, who was already located in the benches of Fidesz, who was not issued because of the vote of Fidesz, and who was not voting for the suspension of his immunity. I tried to look into the case myself in the form of a written question. The court in his case has sentenced the other suspect in the trial to a final sentence. Based on local rumours, it is known that this gentleman has been released from prison, and there can be very many choices: most likely, the President of the Republic has granted a pardon for the benefit of his fellow party suspect. The Minister of Justice replied to this written question in particular that according to the current legal regulations, he is neither able nor the President of the Republic to say at all who he is pardoning, let alone on what grounds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unacceptable. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: You can't tell me! ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: This should be changed! That's what needs to be changed.]] Not just because of this one particular case, but because? Does everyone remember it? The Orbán government has been able to do business in the last four years even from the extradition of the Azeri axe killer. We believe that, if you wish to introduce a forward-looking regulation somewhere, ladies and gentlemen, then this is the opportunity to amend or accept the amendment that we have tabled at the opening presidential pardon chapter, which guarantees citizens that this decision cannot be abused. I mean, we're talking about the discretionary decision of a politician, whose only limit is to the public and to the public. We move that the President of the Republic's decision be made public and be on the website of the President's Office of the Republic, or, in any case, when he gives the pardon, attach the opinion and presentation of the Minister of Justice, with which the decision was based. We think and believe deeply that people are walking and need to know who, on their behalf, the President of the Republic of Hungary grants individual pardons to the so-called powers of the nation. Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, the conditions for the support of the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group. I would very much ask you to take our requests more seriously, take our professional comments more seriously, take our amendments more seriously. Of course, in the final vote, we will decide whether we will support the bill, taking into account this decision. It can't be in its present form. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-28-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group has indicated that it does not wish to make a keynote speaker. Mr Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, is coming to a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, another bv. There is a legislative amendment ahead of us before its entry into force, a very extensive material in which we could find eligible points, but we have some very serious concerns. Some of our concerns are the same as what the Fidesz said before, and I'll quote that, and I'll come back to that. But allow me to start with the general justification and to draw attention to the principles that we cannot even agree with in terms of directions. This won't be a big surprise, because we have said this several times here in Parliament. The general justification identifies reintegration, individualised implementation, the right and direction of education and employment. Law and the most important task of prison execution. We miss the deterrent from here; in the direction of perpetrators who do not want to rejoin themselves after they have been served, there is nothing for them, no principle and no deterrent motive in the execution of the sentence is the law. This is also important because it is possible to argue about how many percent of the perpetrators do not want to adapt to society, we believe to be a decisive part of it? What percentage of this now is, of course, the subject of debate? But there are many who do not want to rejoin themselves, and for them it is only the deterrent punishment that can properly keep them from committing new sins. Perhaps even work can be listed here, and I could even bring this up as a punishment, not only can work be a reward, but also the toughest punishment for certain perpetrators. If we cannot agree on this, and you say that everyone wants to fit back in, it will be very difficult to build on common ground. [[10.30]] Then, as far as the actual life sentence is concerned, because it is a cardinal point of the proposal, I said here that we agree with Fidesz' earlier opinion before the elections, because I would like to quote what you said. This is also true of Viktor Orbán, who expressed great disapproval when the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the actual life sentence was not acceptable. Then there were press releases that: "We won't let you go from the actual life sentence"? Fidesz. Fidesz insists on the actual life sentence, because the criminals have their place in prison. The criminals who committed serious crimes against humans should be in prison for the rest of their lives. These were the first reactions. And they also point out that the actual life sentence came into the Fundamental Law with the will of the vast majority of Hungarians. They also refer to the fact that 94 percent of the Hungarians surveyed supported the introduction of a life sentence in 2011 during the national consultation preparatory to constitutionalisation. Then the announcement ends with a little mix-up. I do not think that the publisher of this communication would confuse the European Parliament and the body which delivered the judgment. So, unfortunately, this is a conscious deception when it is said that we should vote on the Fidesz list in order to get MEPs to Brussels, the European Parliament, who will defend the actual life sentence and will stand up for the decision of the Hungarians. Now, this issue has not been decided in the European Parliament, and you deliberately lied, tricked voters before the elections to the European Parliament. Soul on it! I'm sure you'll have to see who issued this statement. I do not think, by the way, that the minister and secretary of state present were involved in this communication, because I consider them to be far better professionals than they were given their name. But the point is, that's what Fidesz's propaganda contained, physical errors and lies. What we're seeing is the fall coming, and you're presenting the proposal that's coming? And I have to agree to that with my pre-spoken MSZP lead speaker? It will indeed abolish the institution of actual life imprisonment. Because there is no other way to interpret a system that would review the actual life sentence system every two years after 40 years. You may be doing this in the context of a petition for mercy, but the fact that this takes place every two years in itself suggests, say every five years or every ten years, that these procedures are so often and mandatory that the question of when the unsub will be released is almost complete. As I said, you or Fidesz saw very well in the spring what people thought, in the case of certain perpetrators who have been sentenced to actual life imprisonment, they cannot be allowed to be released. I do not understand, for example, that if a child is killed with extreme cruelty and does not repent, then, let us say, after 40 years, what is the criminal policy reason for him to be released. What changes? Is that baby gonna come back to life? Or have you repented? I can't imagine what the new approach is that can be brought in here. It's not that it turns out he wasn't the perpetrator, of course. This is about rethinking or rethinking the verdict. I don't think it's worth talking about humanity here, and it's not just about crimes committed towards children. 'Cause there's a lot of criminals who, let's just say, got in for homicide and served all the time. Earlier it was possible to get away with milder punishments, and now, indeed, some more stringent punishments are imposed, but let's say, in 10-15 years it will come out or even earlier, kill again, and re-enter. He did so several times, and he did not regret it, whether he says in prison that he does not repent of anything, and if he comes out, he will commit crimes. In these cases, there is, in fact, no possibility of real life imprisonment for these people. I think that is not what your constituents expect, and this is not what could create public security in Hungary. 'Cause let's face it, in recent times, even though there's been a nuance more severe punishment, public safety still hasn't recovered. And such measures, such coercion, and in this case I feel that excessive compliance can lead to the fact that criminals really feel that their rights are ahead of the victims' rights. And here we need to talk not only about special, but also about general prevention. We could also prevent someone from committing such a serious crime in the future. But I would like to turn to points that, by the way, appear in this law and go beyond these main points that I have described. We have also tabled amendments, I have, of course, tabled them here in the House, and there will be no more detailed debate, but I would like to highlight some of our points. For example, we think it is good that in the future you can ask for it, and this is a bv. in law and in the law on criminal proceedings, to inform the victim in the event of the escape and release of a criminal who has been sentenced to prison for more than five years against life and physical integrity. We think, by the way, that this could be automatic. So you don't necessarily have to wait here for a special request. It is not always possible, or it may have the theoretical possibility, to indicate this request to the victim, but there is not always a legal representative of the victim, it does not always understand exactly what opportunities are available to him. In many cases, I feel that they will not take advantage of this opportunity if it is not an automatic. We need to think about this. I do not think that it would impose such an administrative burden on the systems so far, since this is already recorded, to automatically indicate the escape or release of such perpetrators. It seems small, but I liked the fact that they regulate the use of firearms, here's the bv. I am talking about amending the law so that the use of firearms can only be considered as a deliberate, personalized shot. This could be an important regulation and clarify the scope of firearms use. What I didn't understand is that the current practice may be described, but at the moment it was not well regulated that it was a coercive tool, it says that only a trained service dog can be used. As far as I know, this has never been any other way, so in the case of service dogs, proper training had to be carried out. But let this be included, it's just a little thing. However, in the case of issuing an official moral certificate, if the registration law is already touched here, I believe that the justification does not hold up, that in certain cases, when a person asks for the issue of an official moral certificate in the customer service, he can only do so in person, on the grounds that the authorization may be a cause for abuse or a breeding ground for abuse. I believe that a full power of attorney in a private document of probative value is still operational at the moment, and not only in these procedures, but in almost every procedure. If you abuse it, the criminal act of forgery will stop. I don't think there's any reason to narrow this down to a personal procedure, especially not a reason that the power of attorney is not appropriate in this circle. Then there is the European Protection Order. It is good in itself that the transposition into Hungarian law takes place. I would like to raise to the present members of the government, and I would like to ask why there is no legal remedy for the rejection or even the granting of a European protection order. In general, in the Hungarian legal system, the possibility of redress is against almost all decisions. In these very cases, I feel that, where foreign legislation and contacts with foreign authorities can be taken into account, there is a high chance of a well-meaning error, there is a high potential, especially in the initial stages. [[10.40]] If an appeal cannot be brought against them, then there is very little chance of reparation, and the general principle of the Hungarian legal system also results in an appeal and remedy being given here. I would ask Minister and Minister of State to reconsider this or to answer why this has been included in the law or why they are excluding the remedy. By the end of the day, I would like to say that it is a pleasure that, at the meeting of the National Security Committee, the production of people who have not been summoned to it can be done with an administrative pressure. Another question is that, right now, there's only been a violation of the law, but that's something, because so far they've done it. For example, Ferenc Gyurcsány could have done that he did not attend committee meetings, even though he was summoned there. Obviously, this is an extra guarantee in the future, but it will still have to be used in practice. Is the bill also about reintegration detention with which? and can I, in fact, frame my speech? can you agree that those who do everything to get back into society should have a means to get them out before they're released? Of course, with a proper tracking device? We're gonna let them go home and let's say we let them go to work. But, and here comes the other problem, I don't see it properly separated? and would it be justified to define it here? That this is only true for those who truly choose to re-integrate, not to be an automatic system, or rather to say that if someone doesn't commit a flagrant violation in prison, and he's just gone, he may not regret his crime, he just wants to pull out this punishment, he might be in re-integration custody, so instead of prison, he can meet him in the outside world. I don't think that making this automatic is criminally justified. So we would have expected a more precise definition of this too. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-10-28-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the LMP Group, Mr András Schiffer, will be here to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The T/1707 bill before us sets out overall and broadly welcome objectives, I think, to be supported. In fact, our criticisms go beyond the bill itself, partly referring to what is not included in this bill or to the precedents, which my fellow opposition Members have already said with other voices, but equally. The amendments to the bill concerning the Criminal Enforcement Act are divided into four large groups. Firstly, the transposition of international obligations, such as Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the right to information in criminal proceedings and Directive 2012/29 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing the Council Framework Decision 2001/20. Secondly, changes to the new system of bv, such as rules on communication and the flow of information between the bodies involved in the implementation process, rules on access to documents and reproduction, settlement of the issue of detention and summary report on the sentenced person. Thirdly, the proposal addresses the contradictions and inaccuracies in the text of the law so far. Fourthly, the transfer of changes in patronage supervision that have occurred in the meantime. In the new structure, government tasks have been shared between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, while at the same time the uniform organisational framework of the patron's supervisory activities has been transformed so far. In view of this, Bvtv has become necessary. supplementing and defining the responsibilities of the prison probation officers. At this point, I would like to reiterate what we said when we changed the governance structure. We continue to see the natural place of patronage supervision at the judicial wallet. We do not understand or consider to be effective the division of powers. I think that, if we look at the purpose of the protective surveillance system, it would be entirely within the competence of the judicial wallet to supervise or manage the system. The prison law is also linked to the regulation of a special pardon procedure for those sentenced to actual life imprisonment. In agreement with what my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, we take it quite naturally that special procedures of this kind are fully transparent and that at least relevant data on the grace procedure should be public data of public interest. The point is that, on the one hand, when we look at criminal proceedings and the publicity of criminal proceedings themselves, and therefore the publicity of criminal proceedings before a court, there is no justification for not applying these rules of publicity to the special proceedings. On the other hand, when it comes to such a manifestation of state sovereignty, in order to fulfill its purpose in the act of grace, I think that it is immeasurable that the broadest possible number of citizens can be convinced of the arguments on which a decision of grace is taken. I believe that this is essential for this institution to fulfil its social function. In the future, in the case of persons sentenced to life imprisonment, which is excluded from the possibility of conditional release, a special non-application procedure should be carried out, thereby ensuring the requirement of the Hungarian legal system laid down in the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg in the case of Hungary v Hungary, that, in the case of imprisonment of actual life imprisonment, there should be a procedure whereby, if a period of imprisonment is already sufficient, it can be examined whether the grounds for the criminal policy of the sentence continue to exist. Finally, the innovation related to Bvtv. is the introduction of reintegration detention in bv. to reduce the saturation of institutions and to facilitate the social integration of prisoners. The Btk. The amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, on the one hand, removes implementing provisions in the meantime due to regulation in Bvtv, and on the other, also serves to ensure consistency with the EU Directive. The proposal also harmonises the Criminal Enforcement Act with the Violent Crime Act. In this regard there was a contradiction to the Be. If the court finds, in relation to the outcome of the hearing, that the offence which was the subject of the charge is an offence and therefore the defendant is acquitted, it shall consider the infringement. By contrast, does the Code of Violation provide that a soldier has committed an offence during his service relationship at his place of duty or in connection with his service? With the exception of offences which may be punishable by criminal detention? It shall be subject to disciplinary action, i.e. the court shall not be entitled to act in such cases. I would like to note that we still do not consider this distinction to be justified. We do not consider it justified, while there are separate military councils within the judicial system, why, in the case of military offences committed in connection with the service, the possibility of judicial proceedings or judicial review is excluded. I think that there is no justification for discrimination because in their case the court proceedings are triggered by a disciplinary procedure. In the case of the Criminal Records Act, part of the amendments improve international cooperation, other rules aim at improving the registration system, and finally, there are amendments motivated by the intention of internal codification and coherence of the acquis. On the one hand, our criticism refers to what has happened here in recent years in terms of a prison sentence, i.e. life imprisonment. First of all, I would like to add once again what we said two years ago that this provision, i.e. the actual life sentence, has not become illegal because you have in the meantime included this provision in the basic law. [[10.50]] I'd like to make it clear that this is over-construction? What they did in this case two years ago? Its practice precludes the rule of law in principle. In a country where the two-thirds power is at any time, when it fears that it is against the constitutional limit, the rule that it considers, where appropriate, to interfere with a fundamental rule, is included in the constitution, in such a country, the Constitution does not protect you from anything. That is why we said two years ago that constitutionality in Hungary has ceased, there is no way to talk about a rule of law, because a constitution, a basic law that does not bind its own creator, because at any time it can transcend without inhibition, that constitution is not a constitution within the meaning of the meaning of the word. The Court of Human Rights referred to the infringement of Article 3 of the Convention in Strasbourg, so no one can be subjected to torture or inhumane, degrading treatment or punishment. The court has stated literally the following: a prisoner sentenced to life imprisonment has the right to know at the beginning of his sentence what he would have to do to examine the possibility of his being released and under what conditions? Do you mean when? the review will take place or may request it. I would also like to make it clear that we are fully debating the position that our better fellow Member has just said that, at one point alone, there would be a close link between penalties, the tightening of penalties and the situation of public security. You're gonna tell me that in order, but you're never gonna back it up with anything. On the other hand, it is worth taking into account that when, for example, the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or, where appropriate, the Hungarian Constitutional Court, if the constitutional power had given it the opportunity to do so, refers to the violation of human dignity or inhumane treatment, we are talking about fundamental values which may affect any person, not just criminals, but not just people who violate standards. So it is in our well-accepted interest that these fundamental rights, which, in any case, are also the pillars of Hungarian constitutionalism, should remain undamaged. The Court of Strasbourg raised three main arguments. One is that the application of the actual life sentence precludes resocialisation requirements, the sentenced person is merely the subject of execution; the continental bv resigns. the basics of systems that people can be improved and repaired. In general, imprisonment has an extremely damaging effect on personality development, especially on long term or permanent imprisonment. Second, in the event of the expulsion of conditional release at the time of the conviction, the prisoner has the opportunity to be released from the sentence only by the granting of individual pardons. This does not represent a concrete and realistic hope of liberation, violates the right to human dignity, restricts the essential content of a fundamental right. Finally, real life imprisonment in Europe is a particularly serious punishment, only a few countries apply it, and outside of Hungary, in England and Wales, it is possible to exclude conditional release at the time of the conviction. There is a similar legal institution in the Netherlands, but here the granting of grace, at least until now, is subject to different rules than in Hungary. Dear Parliament, I would also like to say that, while we welcome the direction of the bill, we must return to what is our fundamental criticism of the criminal policy of the Orbán government. It is worth noting that there are some progressive elements in the execution of sentences, even if, as a result of the shift in focus in criminal policy, the number of prisoners is inexorably increasing and creating unsustainable conditions as a result of the government programme to strengthen public order and public security. We said it in the debate on the new Criminal Code and in the Bv. In the debate of the law, too, there is a need for a fundamental criminal policy change, where imprisonment is not the primary punishment for certain crimes. On the other hand, as early as May 2010, many of us have indicated from opposition side that the institution of prior detention has been used as a penalty in Hungary for a long, long time, and this situation is quite simply not possible, and not only in cases of violent crimes? It's quite simply unacceptable. We have seen this in the autumn of 2006, but we have also seen in recent years that pre-trial detention in the case of prosecutors is practically an automaticism, as if an advance on the subsequent punishment. The Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg is full of Hungarian prison matters, quite simply because the situation in Hungarian prisons is characterised by overcrowding, humiliating, inhumane treatment, and the situation is unsustainable. Not only must you be afraid of the condemnations in Strasbourg, but also of the fact that this prison system will simply not be able to fulfil its function. This requires adequate resources, for example, in the next year's budget, so that Hungary can meet international standards as well as the demands of modern prison execution, because otherwise the purpose of resocialisation cannot be fulfilled by the execution of the sentence. Finally, I would like to say that, in addition to our criticism of the general prison and criminal policy, we welcome, of course, the victim-helping elements of the proposal, such as the fact that victims of intentional crimes against life, physical integrity and health, which are punishable by imprisonment of five years or more, may request further information on the release of prisoners. Joining in what my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, has just said, we would like to make this an automatic arrangement, so that, not depending on the life and information situation of the victims, but in any case, the victims should be informed if these violent crimes are likely to result in the release of prisoners. But we also need to mention that victim protection policy is exactly what it's worth if it's reflected in the fiscal law. In the last few years, did LMP demand it for every single budget bill? and has he put forward specific proposals for this by defining the source page? To increase the victim protection fund in the budget. Are there a few of those unnecessary police spending? I'm thinking about the counter-terrorism center here? Which would be good enough for the budget development of victim protection. The state's criminal policy cannot be one-sided, it is not enough to focus solely on the unsubs, it is also necessary to help the victims. In fact, I will go on, as I have just said, that the resocialization of the unsubs, the convicts, must be resolved, which is also true of the victims in many cases, especially with regard to victims of sex crimes. Currently, Hungarian law enforcement agencies are not ready, they are not prepared to provide sufficient assistance to victims of such crimes, there is no social and judicial apparatus that could, for example, help victims of sexual violence to recover from trauma and, where appropriate, resocialize them. Therefore, in addition to finding and punishing the perpetrators, the state should pay at least as much attention to the victims, which is why, as in previous years, LMP will propose an increase in the budget for victim support during the negotiation of the Budget Act again this year. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since there are no independent Members in the Chamber, we consider that they do not wish to take part in the debate. Minister László Trócsányi has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-10-28-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to comment briefly on what has been said, and then Mr Répássy Róbert will keep the closing words. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There is a very interesting debate about actual life imprisonment. I listened with great interest to the contributions of several Members. I think we all agree that there's nothing wrong with having to stay in prison for the rest of our lives. I think this is something that Strasbourg does not object to, and none of us can object to, if someone is not in a position to want to come out because of their crime, and the rest, and so there is absolutely no problem with that. What Strasbourg has established in its case-law is changing and constantly evolving, so there was not even a uniform wave of this case-law, but there were various zigzags in it when Strasbourg itself withdrew or went forward. [[11.00]] It's a very complicated thing to do. In fact, what has been formulated in Strasbourg's case-law is the right to hope. In particular, the need to give someone some kind of hope is at some point to take his case in hand. However, Strasbourg does not say in what form this right to hope must be done. It cannot be codified because there are 47 countries within the Council of Europe, and accordingly different solutions have been developed. There is no question that there are two main trends. One of the main trends is when you put it in the hands of a judge and say that after x years? See Norway? We'll see what they're gonna say about the Breivik case, what's gonna happen to him, let him out, or we're not gonna let him out. Or they're going to do another solution: they're going to prescribe OCD, and they're going to have to take OCD for the rest of their lives. The B version is based on the system of mercy; for example, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Britain, there is a system of mercy. Here, the Strasbourg court will examine whether or not the system of mercy is appropriate. So look at the mercy system. The right to hope is guaranteed by a well-regulated system of mercy. What happens in this case? The Minister of Justice's discretionary right will be revoked. The Minister of Justice has ceased his discretionary right from now on, because he is bound by the opinion of the Committee on Mercy. This will be a committee of five, consisting of independent judges, so the judicial authority will take part in the proceedings. It is, however, a huge step forward that representatives of an independent organization, a five-member judiciary, give an opinion. From now on, he can be released by mercy, and we've established a regulated system? Absolutely regulated? And obviously, neither is the head of state to assume that it does not actually examine the documents that it has in its hands from a five-member judicial forum. As strange as it may sound, I may not think this thing is so ridiculous that we assume a head of state to examine the documents to which it comes, as it is now. Only now, if I may say so, the discretion of the Minister of Justice is not distracted. The other thing that is very important to me is that if someone reads through the decision of the Strasbourg court, it is clear that the path of mercy is a possible way, which is why we have chosen this solution. The other case I was going to tell you is about the overconfiguration. This possibility of punishment has existed since 1999 and was included in the basic law in 2011. There was no over-conclusion in this case. Does it have to be added that I have a problem with the term "substitution" in other countries? France, Belgium? on several occasions Parliament has come to a position which is contrary to the opinions of other bodies and to certain rules laid down in the Constitution. I have two examples in France, but also in Belgium. So I'd be careful with the term "overstitution" because it has a pejorative expression? Do you have to add it? However, Parliament can be given an opportunity where it has different views on other law enforcement bodies. I therefore do not necessarily consider this term and ab ovo as the Member said that it can only make virtually negative sense. I think it doesn't just make a negative sense; it's subjective, and it's a case by case. In this case, however, there was no over-conclusion, since in 2011 the fact that intentional and violent crimes could be prosecuted for actual life imprisonment was entered into the Fundamental Law. I therefore believe that significant progress has been made in limiting the discretionary powers of the Minister of Justice, and that the regulation of effective life imprisonment has been given an appropriate framework. You didn't cancel the actual life sentence. I also mentioned this at my ministerial hearing in May that the possibility of a life sentence remains. Can you, yes, avoid it in a completely different way once you can avoid it? does this, of course, have the right procedure now? However, the courts will impose it in the same way, because there is a demand, which is mentioned by the Member. There is, and I think there is nothing wrong with this punishment. With this addition we've just tabled, I think things are in place. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties, the LMP and the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-38	Thank you very much. Welcome. We will continue our work with two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I can only agree with my fellow Member Schiffer in the protection of victims, and what he has said is that information from the office is provided to the victim in the event of serious, personal or sexual crimes. On the other hand, I would like to add that we feel that the rights of the victim and even the rights of the family are always lost. It is always the right of the perpetrator, but not to torture or kill a small child, it seems he had no right to do so, we have seen him several times in recent times. Or that they don't kill old people, so they don't have the right to do that, and let's just say we let that unsub out, and he often picks up where he left off. So I'm in a terrible way? and society too, this is not just my opinion - we are horribly sick of this liberal perception that we are always concerned with the rights of the perpetrator and not of the victim, and we are always looking at things from their point of view, as the death penalty in America is a thing, and we are not saying that there is no democracy and no law in America. We could talk about this in itself, but we cannot accept the fact that the various bodies and, often, the Parliament are in favour of criminals. Remind him of the Breivik case, where the man who killed 77 people got 21 years, because that was the maximum. It's less than 100 days a person's life. So this is the direction? 'Cause if we go north, west, that's what's gonna happen. Then let's say András Schiffer would like that. [[Dr. András Schiffer says no to his head.]] In some cases? I'm gonna say it? We would take away the right to hope from a Breivik, who killed and proud of 77 people, take away the right to hope and argue about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-40	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer has the floor for two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I may need two minutes more, but I'll do that. First of all, thank you very much, Minister, that unlike government customs? Although, like Secretary of State Répássy? It honours Parliament to enter into a debate. I very much hope that you will not lose this habit in the coming years and, for example, set an example for Mr Tállai, State Secretary. [[Flavor, noise.]] What I have asked for, Minister, is that there is simply a debate between us in principle. So what we're talking about is that we simply think differently about democracy, we have a different sense of power. What we think is that, yes, the oversemination, if you like, has a pejorative meaning, because to us, the story looks like, for example, that today's Hungarian Fundamental Law or the Law called the Fundamental Law is full of such provisions? such is the criminal policy provision quoted by you, but are there provisions for higher education, for estate policy? , which are basically not fundamental. There is no other constitution in the world where there would be such policy provisions. And the reason for this is that if a constitution is indeed a constitution and, in addition to being a barrier to the parliamentary majority at all times, it is based on some kind of broad consensus, the story seems that there are certain principles in which many of us agree, and the various policy measures that are incorporated into law are subject to it. This is not the case in Hungary today. Another, which is the fundamental difference between us, is that I think that Hungarian people can feel safe in a constitutional democracy if they know that there are basic rules for which there are any big ones? not two-thirds, a 90% - parliamentary majority must also submit. That's not what people feel today, but they think that if the person in that chair says something, it's a two-thirds voting machine. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it will vote tomorrow and the basic rules can be rewritten. That is why I say that there is no constitutionality in Hungary at the moment. Thank you.
u2014-10-28-42	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here you go. [[11.10]]
u2014-10-28-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Before I get to the normal speech, allow me a few thoughts on the previous subject, since anyone who is not the first or second lead speaker is in a pleasant position to respond to the Members before him and even to the position of Minister. Let me also support the line of thought that Congressman Schiffer has begun on the subject of overconfidation or the adoption of constitutional rules in general, I really promise, but very briefly. Is that the problem, Minister? And I think maybe we're not far from each other in this regard? It is right that the Constitution or Fundamental Law designates a framework for political room of manoeuvre, and within this framework, day-to-day political work and government work are carried out. Is that exactly the criticism of the government's activities over the past four years? at least, if we are based on the opinion of Hungarian constitutional lawyers, or even foreign constitutional lawyers, say, or constitutional lawyers who know Hungary, such as Herbert Küpper's opinion, or even the opinions of the bodies, such as the Venice Commission, then we see that? Perhaps the main criticism is that the framework has become a tool. That is, certain provisions of the Constitution, and later of the Fundamental Law, were amended according to what is in line with the objectives of the actual policy. And in fact, this is where the phenomenon that my fellow Member Schiffer spoke about is that certain subjects, which otherwise fall within the competence of the current government, have been incorporated into the Fundamental Law. Such is the actual life sentence that we have just discussed, but there were other areas where this criticism was formulated. In particular, the Venice Commission has also identified a number of areas where it considers this to be the case, so it believes that the Hungarian constitutionalist was wrong about the matter, and was wrong about his perception, not only with regard to the specific measure, that these provisions should not be brought to a fundamental level. I'm putting in parentheses to this situation? Do you want me to put it simply and pestily? the ice cream licks back, because it is precisely because if you did not include in the Fundamental Law the provision of imprisonment for the current actual life sentence, then just as in the case of the death penalty, the entire political sphere could have raised its hand and said that please, the Constitutional Court has decided to do so, and since the Constitutional Court has decided to do so in a positive or negative direction, we do not make a political issue of the matter. This opportunity has passed by your inclusion in the Fundamental Law, and you have actually put yourself before a rather difficult situation in this regard at least. So much for preliminary reactions and detour. Would I like to mention that at the same time? And I wouldn't waste long sentences on that, just a few? What my fellow Member Bellozó also spoke about, and perhaps several speakers and keynote speakers who spoke before me, about the preparation of the previous law, and the fact that it comes straight from the fact that we now have to adopt a 125-page amendment package, which significantly corrects these errors. At the time, Minister, he was not a member of the government, but he was obviously informed of how this debate took place. Mr. Secretary of State sat through it. We also opposed the fact that a proposal of such importance was submitted to Parliament in the week before the trial, which is nothing more than to say that Hungary's history was the first code of enforcement, since the previous one was a legislative decree. So the first bv. In the case of the Code, no more than 3-4 days have been left for Members of Parliament to study; this is one of them. The other: the Judicial Committee discussed it on Monday, the Constitutional, Justice and Order Committee at the time, and then the Parliament discussed it on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the Parliament discussed as its last item on the agenda that, by the way, there was no general speakership, only a 15-minute speaking opportunity, and if Mr. Secretary of State still remembers this, then the paper package he held and wanted to tell us was read here in Parliament, half of it remained in his hands, because the deadline was over, his speaking time was over. After such a history and such a preparation, I think it's natural that a bill struggles with so many mistakes and bleeds from so many wounds. What these topics are, my fellow Member, the Bell has already told me about them, and I will not. However, I would also like to say one thing for a longer time, and this is indeed the issue of actual life imprisonment, because I believe that from a political point of view, but I note that it is one of the most interesting and significant parts of this proposal from a professional point of view. I think what's going on right now reminds me that you're trying to act like the smart girl in the fairy tale who brought you a present and not even who wants to keep this institution. But I am more reminded of this behavior, this attitude to another tale: the miller, his son, and the donkey, when everyone suggests otherwise to this three, especially to these two people, and then at the end everyone laughs at them because they can't please either; neither the man who tells his son to sit on the donkey, nor the man who says that his father should sit on the donkey, nor the man who says that no one should sit on the donkey. In the end, everyone laughs at them. Let's take a moment and think about what a life sentence is. I believe that this must be said in Parliament, because people have a very different notion of actual and so-called non-actual life imprisonment. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that every life sentence, since this institution exists, is actually a life sentence, i.e. when the judge orders it, it is the sentenced person's life, and he must spend the rest of his life in a prison for the rest of his life. What distinguishes the so-called noodles or actual life imprisonment from this previous one is the only moment, whether this can be overruled or not. That is, the actual life sentence against the so-called normal life sentence has one extra element: whether the sentenced person can be overruled at any time or not, i.e. on conditional leave. I therefore think that it is a pity to avoid this issue and it is a pity to try to show with clever wording that this proposal intends to keep this institution. Can everyone have a different opinion or a different opinion about it? We have seen that Congressman Schiffer does not support this institution, for example, Mr Staudt is in favour of this institution, but the fact that this institution is abolished by this proposal is, in my view, a fact, whether someone likes it or does not like it. It introduces a rule that overrides life imprisonment, i.e. there is an opportunity in this bill, and this is specifically formulated by the Minister, but it is also a bill that, if this is fulfilled, the imprisonment of life will not last for the rest of the life of the sentenced. That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen, that no one will like this. Because what I've told you so far is not going to please anyone who likes actual life imprisonment, because this institution is practically going away. But will they like it? Like what? Strasbourg judges who believe that the legislation in Hungary is incomplete? I think that no one in this House is questioning Mr. Minister's expertise on this subject, and I myself, of course, may have another professional position. I say that there is a good chance that Hungary will again face the fact that the Strasbourg court will not like this regulation. [[11.20]] I have two reasons to believe that. The possibility of hope must indeed be given, Minister, but do we really give hope to someone with whom we set the first such date after forty years? What if someone gets out after 40 years? and consider what I'm saying as a perfectly value-neutral text, that is, I'm not arguing against actual life imprisonment, or for it, but just facts? This means that at the earliest, since an act committed before the age of 20 cannot be sentenced to such punishment, at the age of 60, but usually not at the age of 20, I say that it can be reviewed at the age of 60 to 80. Is that really the possibility of hope in reality? Because we also know, Minister, and all serious forums and experts also say that, just as the right to protection is not sufficient, the theoretical possibility of this should also exist. Is there really a practical possibility for people between the ages of 60 and 80 after 40 years of imprisonment? I'm just asking, because I don't think it's necessarily. In other words, if this revision option were set at an earlier date, we would probably be at least closer to certain expectations in this respect. The other is presidential pardon. The Minister was absolutely correct in presenting the two positions, and we will see which will prevail in the Strasbourg court, whether they will accept only the possibility that can be enforced by judicial means, or also the possibility of presidential grace, which will be properly surrounded by conditions. I can't tell you that, but there's a chance that they won't accept this, only the judge. What we both know is that the presidential pardon isn't? In the same way as the common parliamentary pardon? part of the criminal proceedings. It's not a proper review, it's not a proper remedy. That's why it's that? Or should I put it that way? certain foreplay is introduced before the application for mercy; it is not certain that it will fulfil the conditions that have been formulated at the level of expectations. Because the course of justice is clear. If we were to introduce that, we'd be back to basically the old system. By the way, I think it would be right if it wasn't a bv. a judge would decide in the future, but let's say a five-member council of the Curia, because it is a serious matter, but then stay in the jurisdiction of the court. Or version B: if we are going this way, which I do not approve of at all, precisely for the reasons that my fellow Member Bellozó said that a politician will decide, even if he is called the President of the Republic, whether or not to be judged by the Curia Council. But if we are going to stick to this proposal, then at least, as with ministerial appointments, as with state medals, if this judiciary proposes to grant grace or to dismiss grace, then this should bind the President of the Republic, i.e. practically have to sign what is the decision of this judiciary. Will we at least get closer to the fact that the courts decide on a further development of criminal proceedings and not one? Let's just say it, and I don't think it's pejorative because I'm a party politician, too? President of the Republic on a political basis. Finally, allow me one sentence. You can see that from Fidesz's communication, from the slightly hard-read, one-and-a-half-page text by Congressman Vigh and the fact that KDNP hasn't even given a lead speaker that you're trying to smear this case. I understand that a good way to do this is to take the blame for the Minister of Justice, and we will not talk about it, because Congressman Vigh has not spoken about it, but you will not be able to get away with it, my fellow Members, you will not get away with it! One way or another, you have to say "a" or "b" on this subject. So I would ask the representatives of Fidesz to give a clear opinion on what they think about this institution. Finally, I would also like to thank the Minister for his presence in person, which is a serious innovation for the past four years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and that he would answer the questions separately. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-28-44	Thank you very much to Mr Barándy; the folktale motives have made your speech particularly exciting. Now it's time for Congressman Cutter Sebestyén, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. I would like to make a few points about patronage supervision. Contrary to András Schiffer's opinion, I consider the separation of the profession to be a good course, because it is necessary to do the work now carried out by the protective inspectors and the other patrons. Only if this option has been given to divide these two marked branches of the patron's supervision, then the possibility should also be used to provide these patron's inspectors with a more specific, specific training. Because other than what they've learned in the school bench, I could now list what degrees they've taken as experience in the field, and what they've learned, they do need, especially in the separated system, a special education, further training and continuous training, continuous care of their knowledge. Another issue is that I think the direction is right, to which we are going, that in powers and powers they appear to be expanding, in the justice system, in the system of punishment, in their expertise, in their experience, they would like to be used more deeply, but very often we find them in conditional mode, and in many ways we should open this door even wider, even to a level that is even in the United States for the participants in the profession. If a person, under the patron's supervision, violates the rules of conduct severely, then he has the opportunity to use a sign to the prosecutor. I used to have the possibility of this signal for the patrons, myself, when I was a probation worker, I took this opportunity many times, even in the case of parole, or in the case of a suspended sentence. At the time, we were able to use this opportunity to the prison judge or the judge, but many times this possibility was left only as a sign of serious violations of the rules of conduct, but no change was made. I am confident that if this signal comes to the prosecutor, he will use due weight, in compliance with the law, or even in compliance with the rules of the profession, more severely to the patron's opinion on the violation of any rules of conduct, and it will actually occur more often that, even in the case of conditional release or suspended imprisonment, there may be actual imprisonment if the violation of the code of conduct is so serious. And let's not forget that we're going through some serious changes right now. As I said, I think the direction is very good, but this is also an additional burden for the profession, which is why I am now saying what I have been saying in other parliamentary genres, whether already in the previous cycle or in this cycle, that there is a need to develop a number of staff for patrons. In addition to preparing them professionally, with appropriate education, for new challenges, we also need to recognise the need for a higher number of guardians. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-46	Thank you very much. Since I do not see a speaker or a person who has spoken in advance or who has asked for a normal word yet, Mr Staudt has applied for a two-minute word, which is why you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Only very briefly, and I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply, and I have failed to do so, but we hope that this practice will be extended to the other ministers and ministers of state of the government, and indeed a substantive debate can be held. I would like to add, referring to Gergely Bárándy's speech, that he said that he did not take a stand, in fact he wanted to cover what he said in a professional robe. [[11.30]] But it seemed to me that we still needed to comfort the multiple perpetrators and take care of their spiritual world, and besides, who was sentenced to life in prison, he must know for sure what case and how he could be released. Do we continue to maintain that, in addition to deteriorating public security, people have had enough of this, self-serving, so that if a person is sentenced to life in prison, that they should be sentenced to life in prison? Is that what people say? And it shouldn't be 20 years, and then it should come out hopefully and carry on where it left off, but the life sentence, especially the actual life sentence, really should be life imprisonment. Moreover, in the cases in which this was imposed, is it really justified to have this removed, and is it really justified? Yeah, do I say it? That hope should be taken away from people who commit such misdeeds. This does not mean that we are dealing with the psychic world of the perpetrators, but that it means that the victim, the victim, and in many cases, because they are no longer able to live this, we are focusing on the aspects of their families and, by the way, of the generated prevention, because it does have a deterrent effect, no matter what liberal parliamentary chair speakers say. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-48	Secretary of State Répássy has asked to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: I didn't ask for a word.]] He's applied so much that his name is on my monitor. But if you don't want to say anything, we'll interpret it as a false application. Then we'll continue with the two-minute comments. Congressman Schiffer has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The thing is, Mr Staudt, we have listened to that demagogue from you many times. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: So are we!]] They're saying that Jobbik is the only party here that's on the side of the victims, and everyone else here is on the side of the unsubs. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Unfortunately.]] Stop this primitive demagoguery! Can my fellow Member show me one party in this Parliament that says that people who commit serious violent crimes should not be condemned for very long prison years? There was not such a thing, nor was there a Member of Parliament in today's debate who, let's say, would have had a great deal of time in prisons for various violent crimes or, in particular, crimes committed to the harm of children and the elderly. It's not that, Mr Staudt. It is a matter of consensus that the perpetrators of violent crimes should be subjected to a very serious prison sentence. This is not what the debate is about. Don't fool people. The debate between us is whether, when a person is sentenced to life imprisonment, after a decade of x, hope can be given to them under certain conditions. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: No.]] There are two conditions for this and two aspects need to be considered. One: yes, we know that in recent years, there have been several cases where violent offenders have been released on parole without the conditions being given, so these people have committed another crime. However, this is the question of how well the prison apparatus is prepared to resociate these people, that is what I was talking about. If you're not prepared, mistakes will be made. However, the other aspect, my fellow Member, is whether there are general principles that protect, where appropriate, not one of the perpetrators, any Hungarian citizen, any person. Such a general principle is that, for example, the possibility of hope cannot be completely ruled out by anyone. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's what I'm talking about, nothing else. Thank you.
u2014-10-28-50	Thank you very much. Happy Congressman István has the floor for two minutes, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-51	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bárándy called on us to give our opinions. I think that many people know my opinion not only in this House but also elsewhere. I think it is very regrettable that the European Union is more protective of criminals than of victims. The truth is that I am still in favour of the death penalty, but we know that this cannot be achieved under the current legislative conditions, especially as a member of the European Union, so we must adapt to this. The sad thing is that under these circumstances, the European Union is not trying to protect victims, and it is trying to give hope to people who have murdered children, for example. I'll tell you the truth, I don't agree with the fact that the actual life sentence is abolished, but obviously we have to adapt, and I have to admit that, but I think that forty years is too little. I would draw that line for a hundred years, and there will certainly still be hope for someone who has committed such a case, as Congressman Barándy said, the 20-year-old, if he is worth the 120-year-old, then of course he will have every chance. I think that the people whose family, let's say, your child was first raped and then murdered by a pedophile, certainly do not want to give hope to the killer, and I think that we, Members, should be on their side. I don't want to give hope to murderers and violent offenders either. I think the important thing is that every perp gets his punishment. It is not true, of course, that only the Jobbik are in favor of strict punishment. I'm on the side of strict punishment myself, and I'm not sitting in the benches of Jobbik, I don't want to, and I never wanted to. So I think that this thing is addicted to humans. Each person judges it according to his own feelings. I'd be more judgmental about all crimes, by the way, especially violent crimes. So I think that 40 years is short, that we should give more, that would be much better. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-52	Thank you very much. We will now continue the subject with Members asking for a normal word. This is Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to two or three things, and one subject which I had not been able to talk about in my first speech in the absence of time. The first reaction is addressed to Congressman Gábor Staudt, which I believe is that, in the case of a criminal law law on the subject of criminal law enforcement law, legal reasoning in Parliament is not a mistake. That's one of them. The other thing is that I would remind Mr. Congressman that before anyone, whether he or she, would like to change our approach, or would you like to explain something else in what I said that in 2009, the Socialist Government tabled a very comprehensive amendment to the Code of Criminal Code, which practically created the new general part of the Btk.? The new Btk. 90 percent of these provisions have been taken over? And in this serious, short-term amendment, there is still the possibility of a life sentence, and I would like to remind all those who might wish to remember this fact differently. I would like to say two things to Mr. Happy Congressman. One is that it would be worth taking Parliament's debate seriously, because if someone says that they are obliged to support this proposal, but they would do it with the amendment that it will be possible to override it at the age of 120, then I think that they are not taking Parliament's work seriously. Then say, Congressman, that you do not support this proposal, because that is what this is about. That's possible. Do it. Only then will I see that you are so brave, you are so determined to vote against this proposal either yourself or with more of you in the Fidesz fraction. Do it, Congressman. But don't talk to me in Parliament, because I understand the kind of double speech that we have here, that we're on the side of the death penalty, and that maybe even the break-in would be good, and then you vote for the proposal that Fidesz put forward, and you take out the prison for the actual life. That's the kind of double speech I don't like in Parliament. Well, let's get things straight. Then say, Mr President, that I do not support the proposal before us, and I will vote differently. There's still a chance to get a word in, and I'd appreciate it if you would, and then you'd tell me exactly what your plan is. What I missed and could not say was that we had a relatively long radio debate with Mr. State Secretary, perhaps one or two or three months ago, when the Constitutional Court made a decision on the Fidesz legislative amendment package, which became famous as the three blows. At the time, we had the same professional debate, according to which Mr State Secretary considered the correction of the provisions proposed to amend the law to be sufficient to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, and I do not, and I still maintain that opinion. [[11.40]] Dear Secretary of State, I do not know if there may be any problem in the current new constitution of the Constitutional Court, what Fidesz is presenting, I do not know that, but that we will be confronted once again with the fact that the part of the regulation that the judge does not have the right of discretion in certain cases to impose a life sentence or not, I am almost certain of that. So I think it would be worth rethinking it at this stage of the parliamentary debate and reviewing the Constitutional Court's decision as to whether it would not be appropriate to amend it now. I recommend it only for your own good, because the abolition of the actual life sentence will produce a wave of indignation, which could be brought in in the tail of this amendment, as if it were to be brought in separately later, generating a separate wave of indignation. So I suggest that the Secretary of State consider this. Finally, it is just a small addition, in addition to the fact that Gábor Staudt correctly quoted the Prime Minister's statement that he wished to send MEPs to Brussels who would be able to defend the actual imprisonment of life. Looks like we haven't been able to delegate one of these, because we haven't been able to protect it. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the European Union has nothing to do with the problem that we are discussing here, because the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, the Strasbourg Court of Human Rights, operates under the auspices of the Council of Europe, which has nothing to do with the European Union; only if we wish to be factual, I would recommend it to my fellow Member's attention before he may even say his usual monologue of the EU in his next speech, which, of course, is already common here in Parliament, is one of the elements of Fidesz propaganda. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-54	Thank you very much. Now it's Congressman Gábor Staudt's turn as a regular speaker, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not gonna fill it out. I just had to make a normal speech in two minutes. My fellow Member Bárándy partially told me what I would like to address to István Happy. The problem isn't with the rigour, what he's saying, and we can agree with that, so we might as well be sitting in a faction, maybe not because of other things. [[Happy Stephen: Never...]] Okay, maybe we can agree on that, maybe he's gonna ask for his footage again, and we're gonna reject it, and it's gonna be a time like this, and you never know what life will bring. But I'm sure the conning of voters is a nasty thing to do, which is why I quoted the statement you published. They waved the bloody sword, and with a happy statement and attitude, the whole of Fidesz stood behind that, yes, and then the actual life sentence will be protected. And as I said, they made the mistake of confusing the subject with the European Union elections, the European Parliament elections, because it is true that the Council of Europe has nothing to do with this, so the communication was already a lie. But I think that István Happy may have been deceived by the official Fidesz communication, because he believed that what is going out of the Fidesz Centre could only be true, and in this case it contains net professional errors. But if that's what you think? Which we agree with? Well, if you'd like to tell your prime minister about it, or you'd like to tell me at the faction meeting. I suppose the Fidesz group meeting is due to the fact that, as we have heard at the Internet tax, Viktor Orbán made a personal decision there, if you can believe the news, but we trust that you can sometimes express your views on the course of the legislative process. If this can be done, then I suggest that our happy fellow Member also tell us and protest against this, and it will come out when it is really possible to vote on this proposal here in front of the House, and it will be possible to press a non-button, and it is not possible to object to the abolition of the real life sentence so far, and we hope that our fellow Member István Happy will vote against it. If you vote yes, you're a crooked man because you say you don't agree, you say you agree with the death penalty, but then you'll stand in line and press the button. We will be watching how you vote, believe me, we will not fail to monitor how much you respect what you have said. But I would like to draw your attention to one more mistake, if you have already come into the Parliament and we are having a debate here, then I will remove one more professional mistake: the ban on the death penalty does not come from our membership of the European Union, imagine that. [[Happy Stephen: I know!]] You know? You didn't just say that; now you know. Look back at the record. So this was a quick enlightenment, my happy fellow Member. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] He said that because of our membership of the European Union, the death penalty cannot be introduced or traced back to Hungary. This is not really true, so our membership of the EU should not be opposed to this in itself. Now this is a longer subject, but I wanted to resolve these professional mistakes. I would like to ask you to go to your faction or to your prime minister, so that this situation can remain in the current regulatory circle, because you have referred to the fact that 94 percent of people have the support of actual life imprisonment, and if that is the case, then you cannot go against the will of the people, and we are talking about 94 percent here, I would stress it. In fact, Gergely Bárándy is right in this circle, i.e. when she said that this proposal is about leading out the current system of actual life imprisonment. That's what my colleague Bárándy said, isn't it? Now it's one thing that he doesn't agree with the actual life sentence, we agree. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't say that!]] Then he didn't say that, so obviously he can confirm it; now we really don't know who represents what. In any case, we agree with the actual life sentence, we agree with this system, and we do not want Fidesz, in contrast to this proposal, to lead this out of the legal system in the spring opinion. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. In that case, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, as his representative, if he wishes to speak.
u2014-10-28-57	Yeah.
u2014-10-28-58	It says yes. Mr. Secretary of State Répássy has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to point out that the bill tabled by the government does not remove the institution of actual life imprisonment and does not even empty the institution of actual life imprisonment. The bill submitted by the Government extends the possibility of a right to existing grace by requiring the execution of a compulsory pardon procedure for those sentenced to so-called actual life sentences. However, this gives no less or more hope to be released for persons sentenced to life imprisonment, merely establishing that those who have actually been sentenced to life imprisonment will surely be examined after 40 years, their conviction will be reviewed, but this will continue to be a pardon, i.e. a review by the President of the Republic of Hungary of the judgment requiring the exclusion of conditional release. So let us not forget that, in the future, even after the adoption of the bill, the court can sentence a person to so-called actual life sentence, i.e. the judge in his judgment may rule out the possibility of conditional release, and, as has been the case, the President of the Republic is the only one who can override a final sentence and a final sentence with his decision of grace. The institution of the actual life sentence has existed in Hungarian criminal law since 1999; otherwise, it was applied somewhat later, since it could be applied to crimes committed after the law came into force. Gergely Bárándy reminded everyone well that the provision that entered into force in 1999 had not been changed by the Parliament between 2002 and 2010. [[11.50]] So, unfortunately, those very wise thoughts that Mr Harangozó said did not come to his mind for eight years, but it is for certain that he was not a Member at the time, or at least he was not a Member at the time, because if they had already known that this was in conflict with the Convention on Human Rights, they could have easily amended a law of half majority, but unfortunately they had forgotten that. So it's worth getting off the high horse a little bit? The congressman went up to the pulpit, and it's better if you talk from there some other time, so maybe you can tell us the truth. As I said, this hasn't been a punishment since 1999. There are currently 275 persons sentenced to life imprisonment in Hungary, 44 of which are required in the judgment not to be granted conditional leave. So there are 44 so - called actual life sentences. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court's submission before the Constitutional Court was submitted to the Constitutional Court by a penalty council of the Szeged Court. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, just in recent weeks, another Szeged Court of Judgments has imposed on two cases the actual life sentence on the so-called trench gang. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks:]] Thus, the judges of the Szeged Court of Justice disagree that this would not be an unconstitutional or in breach of international law. So there is probably a debate in this court, or there are different views on this issue. We are, of course, looking forward to the Constitutional Court's decision on the actual life sentence. Would I like to respond to the objections and comments made by the keynote speakers that the public notice of the pardon order is supposed to be in the hands of a public figure? I'm sure I can say it this way. It is clear, however, that in the case of a public actor, data which can or may not be disclosed may be transferred to or included in the sphere of personal protection. Remember that most of the pardon decisions are made for health reasons, so a special decision is made for serious health damage. Therefore, in such cases, our view is that it is still right that, if these health data cannot be disclosed unchanged, it cannot be said that the sentenced person, let us say, suffers from a serious, fatal illness and is pardoned. So I would not recommend this direction to the Parliament to demand full publicity of the pardon decisions. Obviously, the situation may be different if someone does not receive a pardon for such consideration. But to this, not only in the last two or three years, but in the last ten years of grace? as a state leader in the Justice Department? "There was no such thing as a different reason to base a decision of grace than a medical condition, but in any case there must be a very serious personal circumstance for a person to be pardoned. [[György Szilágyi: It was a long time ago!]] The debate was about when the rule on actual life imprisonment was included in the basic law, Mr Attorney General. It was included a decade later than it actually exists in Hungary. In addition, the Fundamental Law has provided for an authorisation clause which provides in which case a life sentence may be imposed, and the delegation provision cannot in any case be contrary to the Convention on Human Rights. It is false to claim that the pardon procedure would be inappropriate, possibly contrary to a human rights treaty, for a review of life imprisonment. In the case of Hungary, but also in another case, in a Bulgarian case, the Court of Strasbourg has accepted that the term of imprisonment for life should be reviewed by a grace procedure. This was in the case of Hungary in the case of Törcöly v Hungary. If the decision of the pardon committee were binding on the President of the Republic? Like Gergely Bárándy suggested? That wouldn't be a mercy decision. Obviously, the discretion of the President of the Republic cannot be distracted, the decision of grace is an irreversible and indecipherable power of the Head of State, and therefore we cannot support this proposal as not only contrary to the current Basic Law, but also in the previous constitutional system completely unconstitutional proposal. So I would like to assure you that you can vote for the law with a calm heart, with a calm conscience, because the law does not abolish the actual life sentence, only? Like I said? in addition to the existing pardon procedure, which is to be examined on a compulsory basis. So anyone can still be sentenced to actual life imprisonment. Otherwise, it was no mistake, nor was it such a mistake to say that anyone compared the actual life sentence and the European Union's rule system, because there has been a debate in the European Union about the accession of the European Union to the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights for many years. So, in practice, the European Union is planning to put itself under the jurisdiction of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It is therefore not at all indifferent to what MEPs think of the actual life sentence. Honourable Members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, who have not spoken in this debate. Honourable Members, That is how I wished to respond to the speeches, and before the final vote, I will take the opportunity to respond in detail to the questions raised. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following are the individual tax laws and other related laws, as well as the 2010 National Tax and Customs Office CXXII. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/1705. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Economic Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-61	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary's tax system has already been proven to ensure financial stability, social security and economic growth. Therefore, the foundations of the tax system remain unchanged for the future. The government's aim in 2015 is to keep the burden of families, workers and businesses raising children at a low level. With the tax system, we also encourage more people to work next year, people to earn more, to stimulate the countryside, to make the burden of raising children easier, to spend more on our schools and hospitals. Do we insist that all economic operators will continue next year? Is it proportionate to its capacity to carry a load? You'll have to take your share of public burdens. As much as the opposition would like it, we are not willing to implement restrictions and introduce taxes on families. The special taxes remain, the bank tax remains, the advertising tax remains, and the government has proposed an extension of the telecommunications tax, which is charged to the service providers. The family is the first in 2015. We will therefore continue to tax the tax system that supports families next year. What is new is that we encourage marriage with a tax discount. The government's goal is to keep everyone who can work, so we keep the taxes on the work low. Government programmes to stimulate employment, such as the action to protect jobs, will continue. What is new is that next year there will be maximum tax relief in part-time work in the protection of the workplace after the employment of parents with small children. We provide more incentives for the Hungarian economy. In the coming years, more development resources will arrive in our country than ever before. [[12.00]] The government also supports domestic businesses with tax policy. From the second half of 2010, the government reduced corporate tax from 19% to 10%, up to a tax base of HUF 500 million, resulting in significant savings for small and medium-sized enterprises. The government's aim is to have a single-key corporate tax rate in this cycle, as well as to facilitate the functioning of the farming environment, whiten the economy, reduce the administrative burden on taxation. Next year, supporters of higher education institutions will be able to benefit from a corporate tax base and companies supporting visual team sports, performing arts organisations and Hungarian films will continue to receive tax relief. Measures to eradicate the black economy and tax evasion will continue. For example, we are introducing an electronic road traffic control system, and VAT reporting rules are being tightened. Agriculture and the countryside are stimulated by a number of tax changes. Farmers' purchasing and selling cooperatives are exempt from local business tax. As with the VAT of live and half-carcases, from 1 January 2015 the VAT rate applicable to the sale of large live animals as intermediate products will be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. Dear Parliament, Only in this environment can businesses plan for the long term and make informed decisions. Perhaps it is even more important for families to see a predictable tomorrow. We cannot, of course, lose sight of the fact that we need tax revenues to carry out public tasks, to finance development and welfare expenditure, and therefore protection of tax revenues and the reduction of the black economy are also a priority in our decisions. Due to the government's measures and the increasing performance of the Hungarian economy, a financial balance has been established in Hungary. This allows long-term stability to be one of the most important aspects of the tax system as well. Dear Parliament, It is well known that in recent years the government's main tax policy objective has been to improve the situation of family members, workers and entrepreneurs. In order to achieve these objectives, the domestic tax system has changed, and the tax burden on income taxes has increasingly shifted from year to year to consumer and environmental and health taxes. Thus, the most important objectives of the bill before you now are the following. In the case of individuals, we strongly support the establishment of a family, keep labour taxes at a low level and continue to encourage the employment of the most disadvantaged groups of workers. For businesses, I highlight the creation of conditions to facilitate operation, the expansion of measures to whiteen the economy, and the facilitation of the application of law and the reduction of bureaucracy. The proposal also includes amendments for harmonisation purposes. Dear House, In the previous cycle, with the introduction of a single-key family tax system and a job protection action, we significantly reduced the public burden of living work. These measures are now permanently incorporated into the Hungarian tax system, and the Hungarian population can certainly expect low income tax and high family benefits in international comparison. I think it is important to emphasise this because the long-term predictable regulation allows families to have a stable, predictable future. Therefore, the law is already introducing a gradual increase in the benefits of families with two children, which will be in force from 2016. In their case, monthly and child-by-child family tax relief will increase by HUF 2500 a year from this date. As a result, the discount will be doubled by 2019, from HUF 10 000 to HUF 20,000 per child, of course this is monthly. The proposal to extend the social contribution tax reduction linked to the employment of parents with small children also puts families in a better position. According to this, whether it is full-time or part-time, employers can apply the discount uniformly up to a gross amount of HUF 100 thousand. As a new tax base reduction discount, we propose that they marry for the first time until the first child is born, but for up to 24 months they receive a personal income tax discount of HUF 5 000 per month. In the future, we also want to provide employers with the possibility of tax-free support for the renovation of disabled workers for accessibility purposes, in addition to their contribution to housing and home loans. In view of the increasing tax burden on incomes, the amount of non-wage allowances is slightly reduced from HUF 500 000 to HUF 450 000. At the same time, these benefits will have a lower tax advantage over wages, but they will still be taxed at reduced rates in the future. By providing tax benefits, we want to continue to enforce social aspects, to serve economic development goals and to support self-care. Dear Parliament, The proposal also includes a number of proposals to make the operating conditions of businesses easier, to avoid tax and to eliminate abuses. With regard to corporate tax, we are introducing a new tax relief for companies supporting higher education. It is also a positive change that the support of visual team sports, film creations and performing art organizations will become available to more companies through a new discount to be introduced while maintaining the existing system. It is also proposed to improve the rules on small business taxation, as in the future it will be possible for all taxpayers to comply with the obligation to make advance payments, return and deposit on a quarterly basis. The proposal also includes changes in the specific tax of taxpayers which are favourable to taxpayers and reduce administrative costs. For example, in the future, the monthly notification obligation for those who stop their business will be lifted. Dear House, The proposal continues to reflect our expectation that all economic operators should take part in public burdens. Therefore, the bank tax will continue to be maintained. In the context of internet communication, we are proposing that the scope of the telecommunications tax should include the provision of internet access services from 2015. In addition, the proposal facilitates the situation of telecommunications operators by making the corporate tax paid deductible from the telecommunications tax. In order to encourage the use of a credit card, the proposal includes a restructuring of the financial transaction duty payment obligation. According to this, after annual card operations belonging to the same card, we propose a one-off fee of HUF 800 per year instead of the current levy. We also recommend a one-off fee of HUF 500 per year for a card that provides untouched use. Honourable Members, The proposal broadens the scope for the tax rulings of local authorities. Local authorities operating 25 years ago have already demonstrated that they exercise their tax jurisdiction in a responsible and prudent manner in the light of local specificities. However, this is sometimes narrowed down by the current legislation in force. Therefore, local authorities may introduce one or more so-called municipal taxes from 2015 if they are not prohibited by law. The municipal authorities are therefore free to decide on the subject matter of taxation, but they cannot set a tax on an existing tax item as laid down by law. There is only one additional limit to the settlement tax determination: the municipal tax cannot be subject to an organisation or an entrepreneur. [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, The proposal also contains a number of technical proposals to assist in the application of the law, which do not bring about any change in content. Thus, for example, we eliminate the minor enforcement difficulties that have come to light during the operation of the company's car tax. We have also made smaller changes in the advertising tax to clarify the fulfilment of tax obligations. With regard to the amendment of the tax law, simplification and faster administration are also served by the amendment that, for all administrative procedures and certain judicial procedures, it will be possible for customers to levy the procedure fee by transfer and not to purchase a tax stamp. The situation of home buyers is facilitated by the fact that those who buy apartments who have not yet been able to sell their former apartments may request a 12-month surcharge. The basis for the levy remains the difference between the sales value of the two apartments. Dear House, The amendments to the general turnover tax mainly serve to reduce the black economy. We are also proposing a number of measures to improve the entrepreneurial environment. I would like to point out that since the reduced VAT rate applicable to pig sales has helped to whiten the sector, this is extended to other large animals, cattle, sheep and goats. It also serves to reduce VAT fraud to clarify the range of steel products subject to reverse taxation. The VAT Act is also amended in compliance with our obligations of harmonisation. In doing so, the rules on the time of performance of periodic settlement transactions in turnover taxes will be re-regulated and the VAT treatment of portfolio management to individual customers will be changed. Honourable Members, The proposals concerning excise and energy taxation are primarily aimed at meeting our obligations of harmonisation. Thus, the regulation of wage-making and private-pálinka brewing is changed, the differentiated rate of excise duty for alcohol products is abolished and the rates of certain excise and energy products are slightly increased and some tax reductions are reduced. The bottled injection will become tax-free [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] and, in the future, the tax on energy used in the production of certain construction products can be recovered. [[Intruder from the benches of the MSZP: Oh, my God! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] It is also an important aspect to minimise the possibility of abuse and therefore to increase the level of security to be provided by excise licensee traders. Dear Parliament, The payment and collection of taxes are essential for the survival of the country, for the operation of the state, for the performance of public tasks, for the financing of welfare expenditure. The protection and increase of tax revenues is therefore not only in the interest of the government but also in the interests of the nation as a whole. That is why it is important that we continue to reduce the leeway of tax fraudsters and use all possible means to combat tax evasion. As in recent years, we have placed a special emphasis on improving tax discipline and reducing the black economy. In the proposal for this? in addition to the measures already mentioned - there are a number of amendments which serve these purposes. For example, we provide for a monthly turnover tax return obligation for newly established companies. In addition, we will eliminate the possibility of annual VAT returns above a certain level of turnover, instead we will have to prepare a more frequent quarterly declaration. Both measures are designed to detect abuse during the year. In line with the whitening of the economy, the proposal reduces the amount of detailed VAT reporting from the current HUF 2 million to HUF 1 million. The launch of the so-called electronic road traffic control system is also a means of preventing the abuse of VAT. This new system allows the authorities to monitor precisely the way in which goods are transported and thus prevent abuse. Dear House, The presentation establishes a uniform system of ex post controls following the release of goods in the national customs legislation for the implementation of Community customs legislation, which will contain the rules of procedure for all types of ex post controls carried out by the customs authorities. New types of checks are also included, such as data collection checks and audit-type audits. In addition, the provisions of the Customs fine are amended by sanctioning infringements of non-Community goods which have been unlawfully imported into the EU's external borders and which are considered excise goods. Ladies and gentlemen, Some accounting and auditing requirements are also modified. As regards accounting, we are proposing primarily the transfer of changes in the legislative environment and the settlement of accounting and accounting issues that have arisen in practice. In the case of audit standards, the most important change is the extension of the scope of sanctions to be applied by the audit public oversight authority. Dear Parliament, The foundations of the tax system will therefore remain unchanged next year. This tax system has already demonstrated its contribution to maintaining financial stability, economic growth and social security. Thus, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary can expect low corporate tax, improved farming environment and a whitening economy next year, and families can expect a family tax system and increased benefits. In addition, we are taking a more stringent action against the black economy and VAT fraud. I ask for the support of my fellow Members to encourage Hungarian families, domestic businesses, the Hungarian economy and to appreciate the work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-10-28-62	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to discuss the general debate on this proposal within a six-hour time frame and that the time frame of the group has doubled on the initiative of the MSZP fraction. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the time frame.
u2014-10-28-63	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 124 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 138 minutes for the MSZP Group, 56 minutes for the KDNP Group, 62 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 37 minutes for the LMP Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members.
u2014-10-28-64	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place in a 20-20-minute time frame by group of representatives. I now give the floor to Congressman Roland, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-10-28-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the work of the government and Hungarian families, the efforts of the past few years have produced results. While Hungary was in a difficult situation even compared to the Greeks in 2010, with high public debt, low employment and poor competitiveness indicators, significant progress has now been made in a number of important areas. Since 2010, our public debt has been falling, we have managed to reduce the general government deficit to below 3 per cent, and almost 400 000 more people have jobs compared to the 2010 government change. Thanks to the government's work and its successful fiscal policy, Hungary was excluded from the excessive deficit procedure since 2004. Moreover, the government's efforts are now recognised by the European Commission and international financial institutions, as they are forecasting a budget deficit of less than 3 per cent and balanced economic growth for 2014 and 2015. The signs show that Hungary has a good chance of becoming a European success story in the coming years. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's for sure.]] On the basis of current processes, we can continue to be able to keep budget deficits below 3 per cent in the coming years and achieve stable economic growth. At the same time, we still need to take important steps to help Hungarian families in a number of areas. [[12.20]] Accordingly, 2015 will be the year in which banks will be accounted for and the steps taken towards full employment. This is also addressed by changes in tax laws. Changes to the tax system launched in 2010 will continue next year with the three main pillars of the tax system being the family tax system, the low taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises and the maintenance of special taxes in 2015. This tax system has already been proven to ensure financial stability, security and economic growth for Hungary. The foundations of the tax system will thus remain unchanged next year. The government's objective will continue to be to keep the tax burden on families, workers and businesses raising children at a low level in 2015 and to encourage the whitening of the economy. The principle that the government seeks to reduce taxes on labour for economic growth remains unchanged. Dear Parliament, One of the most important elements of the tax package is the further expansion of the family tax system. The purpose of the family tax system is to strengthen and support families and to promote childbearing. Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, in 2014 there was more than HUF 230 billion in income than some 900 thousand Hungarian families. In addition, from this year the tax benefit was deducted from the social security contribution, thus making it easier to make a living of nearly 270 thousand families, which meant a net income increase of HUF 16,000 for three parents who earned a minimum wage. The 2015 tax package continues and expands this work in order to keep as much of the earned income as possible with Hungarian families. Accordingly, family tax relief for families with two children will double from 2016 to four years. The tax package also proposes the introduction of a new tax base reduction discount under the name of the first married person's discount in order to increase the desire to marry. From 2015 each young couple, where at least one of the parties has their first marriages, can reduce their tax base to HUF 5 thousand a month for 24 months and up to the beginning of entitlement to the family discount. Thus, the newlyweds can receive a tax reduction of HUF 120,000 in two years. Dear Parliament, The payment and collection of taxes is essential for the survival of the country, the functioning of the state, the performance of public tasks, the financing of welfare expenditure, i.e. the protection and increase of tax revenues, is in our interest. That is why it is important that we continue to reduce the leeway of tax fraudsters and use all possible means to combat tax evasion. In recent years, the government has taken a number of measures to reduce the black economy. One of the most important of these was the connection of cash registers to the online system, which enabled NAV to control more effectively. As early as this year, the scheme has resulted in a significant increase in VAT revenue. However, further measures should be taken to reduce the fraud of the VAT. To this end, a so-called electronic road traffic control system is being developed to monitor the real journey of goods, to regulate the payment of public burdens on supplies and supplies, and to prevent the placing on the market in Hungary of goods which were not previously notified to the tax authority. This will avoid abuse of goods by travelling, causing significant damage to the budget. Further steps should also be taken to reduce VAT fraud and unaccounted sales in the sale of bovine animals, sheep and goats. Therefore, taking into account the positive experience of VAT reductions for live and half-carcases, the VAT rate applicable to the sale of large live animals and carcases as intermediate products will also be reduced from 27 per cent from 1 January to 5 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the results of earlier measures, government programmes to stimulate employment will continue to encourage employers to create jobs through tax incentives. The job protection programme has already helped or enabled the employment of nearly 890 thousand people and has reduced the burden of employers by HUF 205 billion since its launch. At the same time, it is a novelty from the point of view of the programme that next year there will be part-time tax incentives for parents with small children in the job protection programme. The employer's social contribution tax relief will be extended. In the case of part-time employees, there is no future need to apply the proportionality rule reducing the amount of the benefit, so employers who employ mothers can apply a discount up to a gross amount of HUF 100 thousand, regardless of working time. In addition, next year there will be a tax benefit for women working part-time, which was introduced by the government in 2011 when the social security contribution was reduced from 27 per cent to 20 per cent. In addition, the extra programme was continued in 2015, which also encourages employers to employ mothers with small children through tax incentives. On the basis of the experience gained so far, they are doing this very effectively, as the employment of mothers with small children has already increased by almost 40 percent in 2014. Dear Parliament, The economic policy of Fidesz remains the same in that all economic operators have to take their share of public burdens. Accordingly, sectoral special taxes remain part of the Hungarian tax system. For example, the telecommunications tax, which was introduced by the Hungarian Parliament two years ago. The tax is one of the sectoral taxes imposed on large companies, supported by a wide range of society, given that the tax is not paid by subscribers but by service companies. According to the closing accounting law, in 2013 nearly HUF 46 billion of tax revenue was generated by the budget from the telecommunications tax paid by telecommunications companies. The Fidesz parliamentary group continues to insist that the extended tax on data traffic is paid by service companies, and we have therefore tabled an amendment, which also sets out this in the law. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a tax ceiling on the model and extent of the tax law adopted previously for voice-based telephones. The Fidesz Group proposes strict measures so that the telecommunications tax cannot be passed on in any form. Tax on the subscription of individuals shall be paid by telecom operators at the expense of their own profits. Telecommunication companies made nearly HUF 75 billion in profits last year, a significant part of which comes from the Internet service. Thus, the extension of the telecommunications tax allows all economic operators to take their share of the public burden as far as possible. Dear Parliament, In recent years, taxes on income have shifted the focus of the tax system towards taxes on consumption, traffic and special taxes, environmental and health protection. [[12.30]] The tax system aims to enable as many people as possible to work in Hungary and to devote as much of the income they earn to their children. For this reason, I ask you to vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-28-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-67	Deep down, Mr President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today's debate on tax laws contains only one positive element, namely: on behalf of the government, the Minister of State's expozee and the comment of the Fidesz lead speaker were refreshingly brief and unlike customs. This is all the virtues of today's debate, and unfortunately, from now on, only the disadvantages can be considered. By the way, I understand these brief comments between us, which have led to much more short speeches than previous tax law debates, because there is really nothing to say about this draft tax law. With regard to this tax law, even a shorter State Secretary's Expo could have said, namely that he would announce, Mr State Secretary, that the Government would withdraw this bill. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right!]] We would have saved more time, and the Hungarian families would have saved more suffering as a result, and it would not have bothered me at all that the Fidesz MEP before me was the first to welcome the withdrawal of the bill, and I could only have been second in this line. That's not what happened. Dear House, This bill is simply untenable. Let's start with why we need a tax increase at all. If you look at the government's statements over the last few weeks, we'll see that everything's fine. The economy is soaring, life is getting better and better in Hungary, the general government deficit is fine, we have put it within a planned framework, the Secretary of State has also mentioned this in his exposé as a virtue. But, if the economy is okay, and with the tax laws now in force, this year's tax revenue, we can ensure that the budget deficit is sufficiently limited, then why is there a need, ladies and gentlemen, for a tax increase next year? If everything is okay, what are the extra expenses that require the government's greed to take on more and more tax increases? I would refer to the fact that Minister Mihály Varga had not long since announced an otherwise great storm that the proportion of Hungarian tax burdens will gradually decrease compared to the power of the economy, and the level of state redistribution will gradually decrease. It was calculated that, assuming an unchanged tax system, this would require some HUF 1700 billion of cuts and cuts in expenditure for the specified years. Then there will be rebuttals that, uh, there will be no restrictions, in fact, that the economy is soaring, and slowly the same tax revenues will represent an increasing share of economic performance, thereby reducing the amount of state redistribution. It has barely been a few weeks and the same minister is presenting a tax bill containing concrete tax increases. When we opposition representatives say that one of the biggest mistakes we are warning is that the government's economic policy is completely unpredictable, we think about this, among other things. When they say the economy is soaring, why are they raising taxes? If they say they're reducing the rate of state redistribution, why are they raising taxes? These questions were not explained either in the State Secretary's Expo or in the comments of the Fidesz MEP before me. Now, a few specifics, let's start piece by piece. I would like to quote Viktor Orbán: he said not so long ago that by 2018 all households will have broadband internet in Hungary. I won't argue with you. Is it true that when the Prime Minister made that statement, did he forget to add that it was in order for the government to tax it well? That's why there's gonna be broadband internet. Not for the purpose of the XXI. In the 20th century, we support people's opportunities, even their job search efforts, with the help of the Internet, but in order to ensure that a new tax, more specifically, an extension of an earlier tax, can sufficiently cut this idea off on the Internet. There should be no doubt, despite all the vows; in a rule of law and a market economy, whether or not, the service provider has the right to recognise various cost elements. Even if you forbid this on some branch, on another branch, these special taxes will be passed on to consumers in the same way as in the case of previous special taxes. This has happened to a large part of the bank taxes, but this has happened to the telecom tax before. The service providers were able to recover from consumers what the State had taken from them in the form of taxes with various cost elements. In addition, if these operators raise a price in any way, it will, of course, be subject to 27 percent VAT. Therefore, if appropriate, the consumer will have to pay even more than the service provider would, of course, because the VAT will migrate into the pocket of the State on this transaction. In other words, whatever you say about the Internet tax, there is only one possible solution: to remove it from the law, if you refuse to withdraw the whole thing, then the relevant passages must be removed from the law quite simply. Another bad news for people, even for families, is the government's strong efforts to tax cafeteria benefits in this tax proposal. This, as the advocacy organisations have already said through the press, will have only one consequence: these cafeteria benefits will be reduced. The employer, especially small businesses, will not undertake to increase its monthly expenditure by that much, remaining within a given framework, to reduce the value of the benefits so that he does not have any additional burden. However, if we take into account only the impact of the tax increases in this way, and only the introduction of the Internet tax is taken into account, then our experts have also arrived at it, but other experts have also appeared in the newspapers, and the calculations have been made that in the case of a family of two children with an average income, these tax increases can take up to HUF 10,000 a month out of the pocket. Yeah, that's what taxing home internet access, taxing mobile internet subscriptions, usually families already have smartphones, no matter how incredible it sounds to our pro-government representatives. And indeed, by reducing the Erzsébet voucher, reducing the benefits of the Széchenyi-rest card, the voluntary contribution to the pension fund, the contribution to the health fund, the local lease, the early school allowance, and the taxing of the employer's support for work meals, these expenses will be charged to the families in the future by reducing the framework. Either they themselves are holding back their consumption, but I assume the goal was not to make less vacations, less families travel, or it would cost them more to withdraw the same benefits, the same trips, the same services. The government's imagination knows no bounds when it comes to raising taxes and imposing taxes. Indeed, it is only in the headlines to raise some tax elements: the introduction of a new financial special tax on the marketing of investment funds. The government won't cut it, it'll start at 25 percent. Do not let the various savings bring peace to all those who have such savings, because they are one of the lucky people in today's Hungary. [[12.40]] Just looking at the additional tax types: the municipalities are free to pay taxes. In essence, in its own competence, municipalities can raise or introduce taxes at their own discretion in order to free up the barriers so far. And with a sad heart, we must see that the government was forced to kneel and lay down the weapon in the field of schnitzel freedom. Indeed, just as the Orbán government has failed all the other freedom struggles, this freedom struggle has been defeated by the Orbán government. In line with EU rules, pálinka's actions on wage and private cooking will certainly be taxable in the future. But the government didn't stop here. If you've failed this freedom fight, have you usually expanded the public health product tax? Is it commonly known as the potato chip tax? alcohol. One of the members of the government must be very fond of the honey brandy: this is the only exception allowed in the submitted bill. If you have enough honey and a maximum sugar content of 40 per cent, you can get away with this tax increase. This basically applies to a single product, honey brandy. I wish you good health to the member of the government. Obviously, he thought we should save what was salvageable. A modest success, I must say. If we look at the additional tax increases, the environmental product fee, however strange, will make bathing more expensive in Hungary. I hope that this does not change public health habits and does not change hygiene habits, but this extension will make regular cleaning more expensive in Hungary next year than it has been before. And last but not least, I could mention the food inspection fee, which you are raising to a multiple of 60 times. This tax increase will, in essence, affect all feed, processed animals, veterinary medicines and animal transport companies. In the current 0.1 per cent range system, it is raised 60 times to 6 per cent, hoping for tens of billions of forints from this revenue, and with the same move imposing tens of billions of burdens on these companies, these agricultural-related enterprises. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, we must state that, apart from the fact that it has been submitted at all, the biggest mistake of this bill is to preserve and maintain the current anti-economic and unfair tax system. So the MSZP fraction is to save what can be saved? Don't we mean the honey brandy? , by submitting amendments, it is trying to make a substantive change to this untenable situation. I would like to announce that we want to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5% in order to make the purchase of these products as cheap as possible for the Hungarian people and to provide sufficient help to make the government more successful in the fight against corruption, we will extend this to sugar and food oil compared to our previous ideas, preventing VAT fraud and abuse in this regard, while at the same time making food cheaper for Hungarian families in terms of the same products. Our other amendment is very clear, and perhaps it should not be mentioned, but I will do so: we have proposed a complete abolition of the provisions relating to the Internet tax in an amendment. You can't untie this, you can't numb it with upper limits. There is no illusion that these burdens will not be passed on to consumers, that the Internet tax should be abolished as it is. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-28-68	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány is grateful to speak after a socialist lead speaker. He began his speech by saying how short both the Secretary of State and the Fidesz lead speaker were, how much he welcomes this. Him? who made critical remarks about the law in the first place, which is completely natural because of its position? It wasn't any longer than the Secretary of State and the Fidesz leader. So the reviews were pretty short. This shows me that there's no such problem with the bill submitted. Obviously, to present a tax package with which all income owners are satisfied is almost impossible. What can we consider to be the biggest positive of this tax package? Maybe it's giving the country stability as it has been. Most criticisms of a tax law from the point of view of income owners can reach the law submitted if it changes year after year and has no direction. Hungarian taxpayers and income owners could get used to such hasty taxation during the socialist government period. It was the result: the country's economy was sitting down, the country was in a budget bankruptcy, and in 2010, when we came to government a good four years ago, we had to change this situation. The realization came soon. The tax system that has bankrupted the country can only be changed if we want to get out of the pothole situation in which the socialists governed the country. What is it that we have been trying to achieve four years ago, and we will continue to strive for the future, because this tax system is being transformed, although it is clearly already there in broad terms, but it is still incomplete? One of our determined goals was to significantly reduce the taxes on work. Obviously, this has been achieved primarily through the transformation of the personal income tax system. We introduced a single-key tax system. I think that we have also been able to persist, that we have gradually reduced the percentage of one key, and perhaps in this particular cycle, in this parliamentary term, we can also make further cuts. This is definitely the aim of the majority of Parliament and the government. The other thing we did at the same time: obviously, there was a need to generate tax revenues somewhere, if we were to provide significant facilitations in the area of personal income tax, we had to increase taxes on consumption. Is that what we have done and even accept as a criticism that there are elements of this tax package right now? Is this what Internet taxes are like? , which means an increase in consumption-type taxes. And, of course, we have had a lot of criticism for introducing a system of special taxes years ago, in view of the crisis and in addition to the crisis, in order to bear a fairer burden. These taxes should continue to be maintained in the coming period. In addition to all this, I must say or may say that the law that has just been tabled fits into this rule system, this framework, and that is why I said that, after thinking so far, this is a stable and predictable tax law, which gives the Hungarian economy the greatest security. Even those economic operators? Is that what I think? Those operating in sectors that are temporarily subject to special taxes are also interested in keeping the Hungarian economy growing, because this gives them the opportunity to realise additional income in this Hungarian market in the future. If we have recorded and accepted that what we have just presented is consistent with the tax rules of the previous years, then I think it is worth looking at whether the major social policy objectives that we have ahead of us, which must be helped in some way through the tax system, are effectively supported by the laws that we have just tabled. [[12.50]] Obviously, to do so, I must first highlight these issues of fate, which are at the service of this tax system, this tax law that has been tabled. The first and most important is the demographic situation. Every effort we make here in Hungary, every single taxpayer, every single individual, every entrepreneur, if we cannot change this demographic situation we are in, that is to say, the ageing of the country, then all our efforts will become meaningless in the long term. So we also need to move the tax system in such a way that we can improve this negative situation. I will address the elements of the package that we have just presented so that the demographic situation can improve somewhat in Hungary. The other issue of fate is the issue of the world of work, extra employment, extra work. Certain steps of the tax system? Can we ask the question? do they serve these social policy goals? I think that we need to examine them or subject them to the package of laws that has been tabled. If I quote the steps we have taken to improve the demographic situation, as my fellow Members, the socialist lead speakers, have already done, I must say that one of the most characteristic features of the Hungarian tax system? And we're not just maintaining it, we're further strengthening it? support for families. Families and children's educators bear the greatest burden for the future, and all the support that a tax system can give them must continue to be provided in the future. They should not be assisted by such families, but should leave most of the income they generate and be excluded from taxation. That's what we've been doing. Today we can say that a parent who has three children is a parent who is looking for an average income [[Zoltán Haughty: But that's not typical.]] Or the parents are looking for you, so technically they don't pay taxes on three kids. For a long time, we had the criticism that in the case of those with a lower income we could not ensure this favourable situation, since there was no way to enforce these savings for them, so we expanded this system over the last year, and not only from the tax but also from the contributions paid, these facilitations could be described for them, so this positive situation is true for them. What we are about to do here is also expected for parents who have two children, a significant relief, a significant improvement. We can't get away right away, but for four years from 2016 the discount of 10 thousand HUF will increase to 20 thousand, i.e. 2500 HUF per year. I think that this will be a very significant step forward in the case of two children, and I am convinced that by means of tax policy we can also encourage and help children to have children. I think it is important to make the changes made by this package of laws that affect young married people or those who are to be married. Even when they do not have a child, they can still receive a tax reduction of HUF 5000 per month; their tax base changes so that they can benefit from a tax reduction of HUF 5000 per month, and they also receive it for 24 months. These are the two measures that appear as a novum, and I can classify them as one of the steps to improve the desire to have children and, in this respect, the demographic situation in this new tax package. The other is the world of work, encouraging work. I could list a lot of items here. The most important thing is that we can continue to maintain that Hungarian businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, live in a very favourable tax environment and pay little tax. I would really like to list rules here that purify competition, that purify competition between entrepreneurs. Because if there is unfair competition between businesses because some people can cheat on taxes, this is detrimental to the growth of the economy. If I am looking at such items, I would perhaps like to mention first the electronic traffic control system that this country is introducing. This will help us to monitor the movement of goods, and by monitoring the movement of goods, we will be able to enforce the tax obligations of such skilled entrepreneurs more effectively than ever, and this will improve the cleanliness of competition. We are also introducing administrative rationalisations, and this once again fits into the scope of receiving, say, R &amp; D discounts for businesses who are entitled to do so. In the context of an ex ante administrative procedure, the National Intellectual Property Office shall first classify an undertaking which intends to grant benefits in this respect and shall enjoy such facilitations only in the possession of that qualification. Similar steps will be taken to support higher education institutions. As a criticism, Sándor Burány mentioned that in the case of investment funds, we are introducing a kind of special tax. This means precisely that these investment fund managers, if they have a distributor in Hungary, will confess and pay the tax that has not charged them so far. I think it is an important change to the amendments that come in the next period in the case of part-time employment and encourage part-time employment in this respect. I'll mention the $5 billion possible item that's not named, but we all know it affects the OTP. So the government not only wants to provide favourable conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also recognises the efforts of Hungarian regional multinationals, and the impact of the Russian crisis, the Ukrainian crisis, will be reduced by tax relief of HUF 5 billion in this financial institution. I am not happy about what Sándor Burány said; as he said, we have lost the battle before the European Union or the European Court of Justice in the case of small-scale pálinka cooking. We are forced to make a correction here, and in the future, this advantage can only be enjoyed by those who are fruit-producing individuals. But in order to show the European Union a flick and strength, do I welcome the fact that in the case of a Hungarian Hungaricum? Is that the spatter? We offer significant benefits to spatter recipients. There is also a great deal of abuse in the interests of income, and therefore an increase in excise security can only be approved. In the case of alcohol products, this increases from 22 million to 150 million and from 120 million to 600 million for mineral oil products. There are also changes in the area, which means tax relief, to be exact. The government, seeing that a significant reduction in VAT from 27 per cent to 5 per cent in the case of the marketing of live pigs and half-carcases has bleached the holding, intended to take such steps in the case of cattle, goats, sheep and thus large animals [[Zoltán Gőgös: We don't have this kind of traffic.]] in the case of the marketing of live animals or carcases. I would like to mention to the local authorities what my fellow Members have already mentioned, a new tax on local taxes, this so-called municipal tax, is possible. This municipal tax may be levied on certain tax items and taxable persons. I appreciate the whole question by increasing the freedom of movement of the local government, namely the local government. However, I also welcome the step where, in the case of agricultural cooperatives, 95 percent of their turnover comes from member sales or the sale of member products, no trade tax is paid. [[13.00]] The biggest storm is obviously the introduction of a telecommunications tax. We need to be careful here, so the corrections made by the two fractions, the Fidesz and the KDNP fractions are obviously welcome. This tax should only be introduced well because it affects many people, and this is a sensitive issue. I think that what this government has announced is important, and that is that by the end of 2018, broadband can reach everyone. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Like gas! The stump is here, but it's not connected.]] This does not happen on its own, it costs money; even if we want to do a large part of it with EU funds, this also requires local effort, which requires additional tax revenues. I am not as convinced as you proclaim that these items will be passed on to users by the service providers; that is not because if we achieve what we want everyone to access broadband in 2018, this means additional consumption for services. So the service providers will have more customers, the services will compete for customers in increasing competition, so I am not sure at all that the administrative bans that we will lay down in the law on the transfer of the tax will be used by the service providers against them. Let them be partners so that this does not happen, and we can cover the whole country with broadband by the end of the cycle. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the package of laws tabled is consistent with what we have already represented in relation to tax policy. What we have represented so far is based on macro numbers, and I am convinced that it is also effective from the pockets of private people and income owners. What if it's effective? And I think that this is indisputably effective? Then it is not appropriate to correct this, but to strengthen the processes that we started years ago. That's what the tax law does. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-70	Welcome to my fellow Members. We will continue the debate. Here comes Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-71	Mr President, Dear House, If we want to quote a classic, we can say that there are two things in life that are absolutely certain: that sooner or later we will die, but in the meantime, we will pay taxes. It is therefore worth discussing the direction in which the government started on the road that paves it. You can see that there is a fundamental philosophical difference between us. The tax package that lies in front of us is trying to split as much of a cake as possible from a constantly shrinking size for social groups benefiting from a fight, while the break-down groups, the lower middle class, are suffering constant disadvantages. The basic philosophy of Jobbik, on the other hand, is that the size of the cake should be increased, so that the implementation and expansion of public burdens from the larger slices of cake could achieve that country's development. We can see that the package before us is essentially an extra burden of between HUF 8 and HUF 12 000 per month for an average family, so can we get to the annual level that the so-called reduction in overhead costs is saved by you at HUF 100,000 per family? Are we talking about an annual level? a larger amount will be taken out of the pockets of families with only this package that lies in front of us. This could be called a overhead package, but let's not call it that, because there's at least one point in it that I'm saying is eligible? such is the fact that newlyweds receive some kind of support at least in a temporary period and although with a ridiculously low amount, but with gestures. But we can also find basic problems. It has been said here that the government intends to carry out public burdens. This failed at least two points. On the one hand, did you fail there to be under your government? And during the rendition of MSZ, SZDSZ? We find a financial period when the Hungarian segment of the entire commercial banking system has, on average, accounted for about one and a half percent of its share of public burden-sharing in the form of taxation for its various profits; we find a time when we find it to a greater extent. But the fact that such outliers appear in itself, so the fact that a Hungarian small entrepreneur may encounter a load level six or eight times higher than a member of a multinational chain or network here is outrageous and outrageous. However, we also need to see that the multi-company companies that operate in Hungary continue to pump more than HUF 4000 billion out of Hungary every year without any obstacles, most of the Hungarian people's contributions and profits generated after their work will be lured out of the country without tax, with various financial tricks and lies. This is the rental of manufacturing technology, the rental of such different internet and other systems, where there is no top hat, and the government of Hungary has not intervened in order to prevent these multi-company companies from imagining profits from the country, so they are still not involved in public burdens. On the other hand, you have signed so-called strategic agreements with 48 of these companies and, where appropriate, you will grant them ten to twelve times more job creation support than an average Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur. This is outrageous in itself. But let's look at what's right in front of us, in detail. One of the biggest problems with the bill is that it does not clarify the purpose of the financial government. We have been presented with a package that essentially has no general justification. The general justification begins with what new types of tax forms appear, but what the government is aiming at at at strategically, with regard to visions, with what revenue it hopes, with what it intends to move against, there is nothing to be learned. You may also have had an ad hoc work of a rushing nature, since about a week was available for the processing of a net 176-page material with 18 detailed annexes, with a length of nearly four hundred paragraphs; the method of the compilation could be something similar. But you can see that you are breaking even the legislative law with what you are putting in front of us, as this is also subject to Article 17. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 clearly states that the preparatory of the legislation will assess the expected consequences of the regulation by carrying out a preliminary impact assessment. You have done nothing of this, at least not making any of this available to Members of Parliament in the explanatory memorandum. Once again, there is a point of this that can be supported, this is the marriage tax allowance, although the monthly HUF 5000 is a ridiculous amount to boost the mood for marriage at any level, but we appreciate this gesture. It could have been given a Plecsnite or a medal, it could have been about the same amount of use, but we appreciate it. At the same time, they do not touch one of the most brutal items, as they do not intend to modify the 27 per cent of the VAT world record, even though the unrealisticly high turnover tax is clearly a hotbed for corruption. In view of Hungary's economic structure, most of the problems are caused by the amazing degree of corruption in the Hungarian national economy. But should we look at those special taxes that you're looking at? Along with the Secretary of State? They keep lying that they will not be passed on, that this is not paid by Hungarian citizens, that is paid by the service providers, that the banks and the multinationals pay for it. On the other hand, we will look at the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office and the Hungarian National Bank's statements, i.e. two of its organizations, which would be very difficult to accuse with opposition bias. According to KSH, the price of financial services increased by around 36 percent in 2013 and there is an additional 14 percent increase in the first half of this year. Thus, over a year and a half, the transaction fee increased the costs of bank users by 55 percent, while the collection volume of the transaction fee also increased enormously during the same period. The banking sector thus only increased its revenues by 121 billion in terms of revenues from financial services in the whole of 2013, at a time when, according to your billboards, banks were accounted for, they approached public burdens. In crisis years, these institutions have been able to increase their revenues by a hundred billion! How's that? In the meantime, because of the transaction fee, many bank accounts have been closed down by Hungarian citizens, and rationalizations have been introduced in the system, which clearly show that citizens are also responding to the financial and tax tsunami that you are pouring into their necks. It can be seen, then, that if we look at the transfer of the transaction fee alone, what the senior analyst of the Hungarian National Bank says: that the 11 largest Hungarian banks have passed on this levy in full, and in households the transfer rate has not only reached, but has exceeded the transaction fee level, i.e. cash withdrawals, credit transfers and credit card payments. Thus, in the case of the forms of transactions most commonly used by the widest number of the population, the rate of the levy was exceeded. [[13.10]] So don't lie about how this didn't happen, more precisely you can lie about it in Parliament, but less and less people will believe it. The annual card fee may have increased from HUF 1700 to HUF 3000 for the most common debit cards, but even with a few thousand-dollar shifts, billion-dollar items can be passed on to the Hungarian population, but this is very difficult to show, because you still haven't built a monitoring system that would examine at weekly level whether or not there are real market developments. It could also be said that the so-called 'public health product price' has been set up, as manufacturers have reacted by doing the most tricks with ingredients, so this tax has not fulfilled the expectations attached to it, at least not at the level of income, and there is, unfortunately, a minimum deviation in terms of changes in consumption patterns. I myself had high hopes for this, but could there have been some error in the implementation, since it didn't work? I'm gonna say it again? Not a single hope. And the phone tax is an inexplicable type of special tax, because you can see that part of the tax has been incorporated into service charges, but then in the second Varga package, when you have seen this transfer, so you have also noticed that this fee has been further increased, so this transfer tsunami has been allowed to continue without any obstacles. What is the worst in terms of tax plans before us, however, is that from 2015 to a significant increase from a rate of 35 per cent to more than 51 per cent, including the Erzsébet voucher, the Széchenyi rest card, the voluntary pension fund and health fund contribution, local rent, school start support and the public burden of work catering, so this whole circle becomes a brutally taxed product group, if these services can be mentioned within the product group. This measure hits precisely those who are middle - class, perhaps middle - class, or who are fighting to stay there. So, again, we see that, while the one-key taxation, the positive effects of which occurred in 85 percent of Budapest and Pest county, in the region and life of the richer people, it is clear that again here the lower middle class, again, is burdened unduly with the layers which are terrified and rightly afraid of falling, while there is still no tax system to support production. It can therefore be seen that we could move away from here, yes, with a tax system supporting production, where we are not making hundreds of billions of dollars of transfers with the single-key player for those who do not need it, but for agriculture, tourism, industry, and manufacturing industry could and should be strengthened by tax incentives to create new jobs, increase added value, emigration can be slowed down, and this added value would indeed increase the amount of cake that is available to the Hungarian national economy. The revenue side of the budget would be much higher than the tax rate level so far, and the tax burden could even be reduced in the long term, as that would be the aim; but it would certainly be true that this amazing fight, which runs above the smaller slices of the shrinking size cake, could be eliminated, but only with a tax system supporting production. Let me tell you at the end that I was absolutely positively affected by the voice of János Harghitai with regard to demographic aspects. I am glad that you can at least see the problem, and I am glad that there are Members here who see that Hungary is not one of the biggest, but its biggest problem is the loss of population, its ageing, together with the amazing emigration that should be dealt with together. Do we need to see that you and this economic policy that you've been carrying out? Because if you look at the VAT issue, then the VAT on food has risen from 20 to 25 and then 27 percent during your regency? This incredibly unpredictable economic policy, the unthinkable tax measures that lie before us, do lead to the fact that in Hungary there will be no security of life for those who can put 20-30 million forints aside for the years of retirement. Such people live in Hungary to a small extent, but even then, because of ageing and population loss, young people and lack of active people, there will be a situation in Hungary where we can say that even if someone has savings, they will not be young enough, they will not be active enough to buy this savings value, or they will buy the investments that would allow them to generate interest, or they could remain in old age for those who have a reserve. Thus, an economic balance has been disrupted and that it should not decompose completely, so that at least this process can be slowed down and then reversible, it is not enough to allocate five thousand forints as a gesture with marriage support. For example, should a home-building programme have been put in place at the time of the 2010 government change? What Jobbik has worked out has been placed on the table, and could Fidesz-KDNP be realized this year, because we have no envy in this regard? In addition, after examining the vast hundreds of thousands of buildings that have been abandoned, they could bring some of this back to life. It is available for young Hungarians and middle-aged people, so it should be available for a maximum of a third of current market prices and a rental apartment could be provided. With such a capital injection, which would affect four or five other economic sectors through the Hungarian construction sector, it would be possible to speed up the entire national economy, slow down emigration and increase the willingness to have children, because the birth of a very large number of children is lagging behind because an average youth realizes that the current level of income, along with the amazing tax burden and at a very high level of redistribution, is simply impossible to obtain a single home, and it is impossible to plan, not just to get his own apartment, but to get his own house or port, it is simply impossible for a Hungarian youth in a twenty-year perspective. We have also received amazing State Secretary's reactions to the issue of taxation and home creation. Some have failed to say that the National Asset Manager has been the largest rental-building or rental-export program in recent decades. Is that what this is about? Does everyone know? that, following the amazing attacks of the creditor bank, Hungarian people will be deprived of the ownership of their own apartment, home and then remain tenants in their own property. These stolen property can be called a rental, but it is certain that in Hungary the life opportunities of Hungarian young people cannot be broadened, and the National Asset Manager can not positively affect the demographic situation. We have to mention that there is a line of home creation in the budget, indeed, there is no new housing, because this line of home creation contains the state support of the 2.0s, the state leg. Therefore, I would like to encourage my fellow members of the Government, if at last there is someone who recognises the amazingness of demographic problems, the depth of the gap that lies before us, to intervene with a thoughtful economic policy concept, not just cosmetics. Because what lies in front of us is one thing to cancel the process called a reduction in the rent that has been sold for two years, and thanks to which, although the electoral system has been transformed, they have been able to account for a two-thirds success, but apparently they are now completely nullifying the real or alleged benefits that they have made in the past, despite the fact that the Hungarian budget and the Hungarian citizens have already lost a good part of the benefits of the reduction by paying compensation from our tax forints to public utility companies that they wanted to compensate for the reduction of the rent. But do we have to note that it's the biggest problem? That's a big problem, too, isn't it? This is not the case, but the total lack of burden-sharing, the fact that different banks and financial institutions can still get away with a hundred billion-dollar level of income, with tax rates of 1 per cent or the tax rates at the bottom of the 1 per cent level, and multinational companies can pump money out of Hungary in a thousand billion-dollar order. It does not matter whether this volume has decreased or increased in the previous year or in the previous case, this burden is on the Hungarian economy for decades, and until this can be changed, you can bring us any tax package, any structural change, and the possibility of restructuring can only be obtained with courage. This package lacks exactly the courage. It's a compromise package. Is it agreeable that, in response to external spill-over economic effects, the level of austerity will increase, increase, and this government will not be able to show any initiative of its own, in addition to that? I'm gonna say it again? I am in favour of getting a fresh marriage, five thousand forints a month, that's a very good thing, but let's face it, the Danube doesn't get out of the way. It is also necessary to see that there are different external spill-over economic impacts to face, in the interests of Hungary, we have to face banks, we have to face multinationals, and we have to face values that tell you to leave Hungary, which tell you not to take on so many children. A counter-force against these can be established by achieving, along a predictable, secure economic structure, a predictable tax policy, so that a Hungarian youth can remain still in Hungary. [[13.20]] If you're already in favor of getting married with five thousand forints, should I note that it's just this online hysteria that you created? I'm telling you, with a series of amazing blunders? , many more young Hungarians may have suggested that he would not want to remain in such a country as many young Hungarians were positively affected by the gesture that if he married the couple of his life, he would be supported for two years by a few thousand forints. It is not with the few thousand forints that we have to solve these problems, or not exclusively with them, but with the need to create conditions of life that make it worthwhile to stay in Hungary. I don't condemn any emigrants, but along the system of God's origins, the one who was born here must be able to make a living here? I'm gonna say it again? at any cost. This is more important than any EU interest, much more important than any pact for you with banks, multinational companies. The ultimate goal could therefore be to restore Hungary's demographic balance. Each item of this tax package should be subject to this; at the moment, one point was subordinated to this from the net 176 pages; therefore, it can be seen that they have something to work on. I urge you to show courage instead of cowardice, the tax package of compromise, to take initiative, and to create opportunities for young Hungarians that they would otherwise deserve after so many treasonous governments. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-72	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-28-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The package of laws in front of us does not contain too much redeployment, the tax system is more likely to be tangled, ideas are thrown in without knowledge of the effects, burdens are changed, many lives are bitter. Instead of cutting red tape many times, small businesses are once again getting more taxes and more announcements. The Internet tax was also completely out of nowhere, contrary to Fidesz's previous position and current goals, and was not in agreement with anyone in the package. The Internet transmitter? Is it open or whether it's covered? It's totally unacceptable. In our country, digital illiteracy is on a huge scale, there are areas where, let alone internet, there are no computers in the homes. In such a country, the introduction of an Internet tax is not only a problem against the spirit of the Internet, but also a fatal mistake; in a country where few people still have access to Internet services, this wrong decision will slow down the spread of the Internet, which is in the interest of all of us, users and pressure providers alike. You, specifically Zsolt Nyitrai, said that in 2008. We agree with the word of this position, but you seem to have forgotten all that. The stated reasons for the proposal, such as the redirection of telephones to the Internet, have proved to be false, since Internet telephones are only a fraction of data traffic. They couldn't even hit it in the order of magnitude: they were talking about 20 billion, even though the specified rate would be ten times that. They also tried to consult with representatives of the sector concerned only after the proposal was tabled, which is nonsense. The LMP's position on this issue is simple and clear: this measure must be withdrawn, cannot be grated or repaired, and we say that it cannot be tricked, because you want to limit it to a ceiling of 700 forints and say that it will be paid by the service provider. But we know the result: sooner or later, they pass it on. If you need resources, look elsewhere, there are plenty of areas within the public administration, where there is waste, just mention the license fees paid to Microsoft or 80 billion public media or billions of state propaganda. Internet usage should not be hindered, but supported, for example by free Wi-Fi, where appropriate, linked to education, training and cafeteria, to enable the purchase of a reduced internet service. Should the background be to know that housing and food expenditure in the household consumption structure? Which is about 20-25 percent? transport expenditures follow by 11,6 percent, then communication is the fourth largest item by 6.7 percent. This is an outstanding figure among developed countries: 5 percent in Poland, 3 percent in Slovakia, 2 percent in the Czech Republic, less than 1 percent in Austria and Scandinavian countries. In Slovakia, half as much is needed for mobile internet as payments, so mobile internet penetration is twice as large there, 55.3 percent, 61.3 percent in Poland and 62.5 percent in the Czech Republic, and only 27.7 percent in Hungary. It should be noted that, for EU funds 2014-2020, only an unprecedented amount in the operational programme for economic development and innovation, a non-refundable grant of HUF 86 billion, is intended to be used mainly for the development of access networks within settlements. Now, if they use one hand to help build it, and the other to block it from being used, is that a sensible policy? It's a matter of cafeteria. We find it a serious problem that the government will overload it and essentially shift the cafeteria system towards extinction. Among the 2015 tax plans, the tax burden on non-wage benefits increases from 35.7 percent this year to 51.17 percent, while the public burden on benefits not covered by the employer increases to 65.79 percent in 2015 from 51.15 percent this year. In practice, this means that the employer will cost 43 percent more next year if the employees are to pay for the various cafeteria elements. It is therefore clear that next year companies will reduce the cafeteria framework. This is sad because the cafeteria benefits mainly from low-income workers, who need support from the employer for workplace meals, school start-ups or local rentals. If the tax on cafeteria were to increase, they would probably lose their earnings, and a quarter of the companies would never give such benefits again, while elsewhere the framework would be significantly reduced, which is why trade unions are also protesting. Moreover, the government does not see that cafeteria is not an alternative to wage payments, but an additional contribution, which could also be an excellent local economic development tool. In order to fulfil its function and achieve its goals, with an annual cap of six hundred thousand to one million? Against the new four hundred and fifty thousand ceiling? For example, voluntary pension and health fund payments, holiday checks, BKV rentals and internet subscription vouchers should be exempt. New elements could also be introduced, such as employer housing support to improve labour mobility and housing conditions, or the family card, which could be cashed in any kindergarten, kindergarten or family day care, promoting the employment of family mothers and increasing the flexibility and diversity of child rearing and services. However, the government seems either to have no interest in the above objectives, or it does not understand the operation and use of the cafeteria at all, as in recent years it has had no other plan but to quietly bleed out the whole system. The tax package is also disappointing in terms of greening the economy. There is clearly no one in the government who has any idea of environmental regulation and green taxation, that environmental product charges are not a fundamental function of patching up budget holes, but of reducing environmental pressures and environmentally harmful products and services, and of initiating environmentally sound solutions. [[13.30]] If only someone in the government at least knew what XXI was all about at a minimum level. In the 20th century, environmental protection would not have come up with the current proposal to modify product charges. The fact that the product fee for advertising documents is increasing by a third is finally understandable from an environmental point of view. These tescoes, auchanic newspapers usually become household waste directly or after mashed potatoes. The best you can think about is the scale. It would be a mistake to assume that this large tax increase will not be included in consumer prices. To make office paper and other chemical products in Hungarian, from soap to shampoo to basic cosmetics, everything that belongs to personal hygiene should really be a product-charged category, it could already be debated. As far as office paper is concerned, in the case of chlorine-bleached paper, the product fee may be considered justified, but what about chlorine-free re-paper produced from waste paper? If the latter is to be charged the same product price as the former, then obviously it is not about paying the environmental burden, it is about simply collecting money. The same is true of domestic chemical products. Here, too, are products that are more environmentally beneficial, such as phosphate-free or contain only natural ingredients. If these are also subject to the full tax rate, then again the horse's foot, i.e. the intention to maximize the tax, which is quite bad for the government of the tax reduction. The price of cheap soaps and shampoos will be increased by a single product fee more than average, which is hardly anything else than a gross increase in overhead. The 5 per cent increase in energy taxes will also have a positive impact, almost certainly in electricity or gas bills, but in taxes, we will be guaranteed to help energy companies that are losing more and more and more weight and need State loss relief. This product fee regulation should therefore not be introduced in this way. It is necessary to ensure that revenue is actually used in the environment. The LMP will submit a specific proposal for this. A strange element of the draft tax law is the extension of the so-called health product fee, namely the taxation of alcohols. It is well known what damage has been and is still caused by excessive alcohol consumption in Hungary. That is why we do not speak against the cost of commercial drinks, vodka, whiskey, gin and liqueurs, but we indicate that this may have serious negative effects; when an alcoholic parent drinks money from his family, I think that's what they say. At the same time, we do not understand why more expensive drinks, Unicum and others, quality brandys, are excluded from the list. It seems that the government is essentially supporting the alcoholicisation of the wealthy, the elite, while taxing the poor. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP, among them: That's right. ? Laszlo Varju: Cheers!]] This distinction cannot be accepted. The tax relief of marriagers is nothing more than promoting marriage from ideological considerations. We also believe that tax relief for married people will not solve population problems in Hungary. This would require the adoption of changes that would ensure that women are able to return safely to the labour market, which would support the creation of flexible, family-friendly jobs and affordable day-to-day childcare facilities. There is no evidence of this in the current draft. Instead of newer and newer tax incentives, there is a need to increase the number of benefits, family allowances and benefits that have not been raised since 2008. For a long time, the LMP has said that it is a mistake that the family tax relief only jumps with the third child and becomes significant there. It means the system's broken, the government knows it, because ever since it was introduced, they've been changing it. First it had to be corrected for the benefit of the low earners, now they want a change for the benefit of the fewer children. Compared to those announced by Mihály Varga, the family tax allowance for two children is not going to increase next year, they are planning to double the amount from 2016, in four years, to HUF 10 thousand per child for the current two children. That is, before the municipal elections, the government misled people. At that time, it was stated as a fact that next year the amount of the family tax allowance for the two children would be increased and proposed in the tax laws. They promised to double the discount from 2015 to HUF 20,000 per child for two children, i.e. a total of HUF 40,000. Compared to this, nothing will change next year, and from 2016 only a gradual increase will take place. There is therefore no guarantee that it will not be overwritten next year, as it was in corporate tax. Next year's tax laws show that Fidesz is moving on the wrong path, even at a lower speed. If the current proposal is adopted, the tax system will not become fair in 2015, it will continue to strengthen the disintegration of society, it will hinder the strengthening of Hungarian businesses and it will not take any meaningful steps to solve population problems. This draft tax is nothing more than patching up a fundamentally flawed system. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the lead speakerial round. It is now possible to speak for the first independent representatives in a 12-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-75	Thank you very much. Dear House, I will share my speech with my fellow Member, László Varju, 50/50. [[To intervene:]] The time frame.
u2014-10-28-76	Congresswoman! The fundamental problem is that this must be announced in advance. It is no longer possible to apply here, because a Member can speak in a 12-minute time frame, and then Mr Varju has the opportunity without further ado, as he did on time; because, as I see it, he has checked in as an eighth. So I'm the only one who can let you do that, but I don't have the chance. So here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-28-77	Yeah, okay, it's okay. Thank you. [[István Apáti: Order is the soul of everything.]] Like this. The point is, he's gonna be able to talk, too. Péter Boross former Prime Minister... [[István Apáti and István Tukacs speak loudly.]] Dear fellow Members, Péter Boross, former Prime Minister, said the other day that the government was attacking Hungary. Now, in a civilized debate, it is worth laying the foundations before we speak. I think the Fidesz government is not the same as Hungary. The criticism of the government is especially in the interests of the Hungarian people, especially if the economic policy in Orbán has shown its inadequacy for many times. The tax package in front of us is like the wolf of a Grimm story. Dressed in disguise, no matter how much she lies in grandma's bed, there's always a hairy leg hanging out, and the sharp teeth flash out. Even though the government talks about how people will be better, this tax package actually shows that they are bound. He's creating a feudal system that actually benefits only a small circle of interest, Fidesz buddies. However, the people clearly reject the vassals, it is unprecedented for people on the streets of Budapest to shout that we do not pay taxes to criminals. Of course, people pay taxes. Of course, the president of the IRS is involved in corruption, which he doesn't think is important to clarify. This is the country we live in today. [[13.40]] Don't you change the losing team? This is the essence of the Orbán government's economic policy. It all started there a few years ago when the unfair one-key tax was introduced. The whole point of a single-key tax is to support the rich and take money from the poorer. If everyone pays the same amount, it's obvious that the wealthy will benefit. That doesn't change anything with this tax package. At the same time, the wasteful and corrupt state of Fidesz now costs so much money that taxes will have to be levied from 2012 onwards. In 2012, 25 new tax types were introduced to replace the lost amount of money, which has now increased to 40. New taxes will now be introduced: the taxation of cafeteria, the extension of the chip tax and the much mentioned Internet tax. Fidesz created the empire of special taxes from Hungary. Today, you have to pay extra taxes when you eat, even if you drink. They're also charging extra taxes for working because that's what Internet taxes are all about. Interneting is the most important tool for working and information in today's world. There's an extra tax charge for cleaning. We just can't come up with a daily routine that wouldn't be burdened by a special tax. The nicest thing is, even taking our salary costs money. The current tax package results in a reduction of approximately HUF 100,000 per month for 4 thousand for a two-seeker family. So it's impossible to build a safe life, so it's impossible to get from one to the other, so it's not worth starting a family. If the government introduces 8-10 new tax types per year, it is simply not worth planning. You can't start a family, you can't run a business, because once you put your head out of the water, the government will put it back under the water with another transmitter. Moreover, they do so with incredible arrogance, and so that you and your friends are not subject to your own laws and restrictions. Fidesz companies pay less taxes, Fidesz representatives have no problem paying off foreign exchange loans if Fidesz companies, which are not of good quality, get in trouble, receive overpriced state orders. This is our country today. Dear Parliament, The absurd tax state creates an unpredictable economic environment. And if entrepreneurs can't plan, maybe they're afraid of the state, no investment, no job. Now they have every reason to fear the corrupt tax state of Fidesz. It is no coincidence that there is no reduction in real unemployment and that employment figures are only improving in Hungary because of the poorly paid public work that mayors give out as a gentleman's favour. The best example of the government's failure to see the consequences of its actions is the idea of Internet taxation, which is far more damaging to both the economy and the people than it would bring any profit to the state. It is regrettable that some of the digital illiterate government members, instead of whom their subordinates do online work, have neither experienced nor accepted this. 16 years after the launch of Google, Viktor Orbán should also turn on his computer. If this doesn't work, just look out the window where tens of thousands of people protest against the government's new action. Growing state, captive economy, special taxes, special taxes in all areas of life. If Fidesz so imagines effective and smart XXI. A century-old state, representing the nation's interests, well, then you're in a very bad way. It is more in the interest of the people to have a tax system and a state that does not choke us, which does not want to settle for every minute of our lives, which does not punish us for 2 thousand forints just because we take a little salary from our credit card, if we buy shampoo or soap or check our emails. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-78	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we have two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In a civilized, normal debate, it's worth beating a few piles from the beginning, so I asked for a two-minute one. I would like to make three points. As Chief Speaker, Minister of State Tállai and Roland Mengyi have formulated sentences which, obviously, can be debated in detail between Parliament's walls and can be supported by thousands of things. The Secretary of State spoke about social security for the last four years. I will not list data sets, lines, that 4.5 million people live below the minimum living age, how many children live in poverty, many others. These were all the budgetary results of the on-going tax law. But in the same way, when it doesn't matter what, special taxes, bank taxes, transaction fees, whatever we're talking about, it should also be stated, Mr Secretary, that the transfers have taken place in the last year for families, for individual people. So you don't have to be so proud of that. When it comes to low-level labour taxes, it should be added that tax incentives will be withdrawn in addition to or in parallel with single-key, 16 per cent personal income tax. In line with Roland's words, three other short, simple thoughts. High government debt? Is the government debt falling? The government debt is high, it's never been this high, it's over 85 percent, I don't have to say 25 437 billion forints. Over 2,000 billion more than at the end of the year before. Let's not talk about employment, because we've told you a thousand times what slippery statistics are going through what you're talking about. About competitiveness? Four years ago, in the period 2010-11, Hungary was 52th in relation to 148 countries, now 63rd. What are you talking about? They sing a hymn of glory, and in the middle of reality, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And it's about something else. The rest will then be included in the concrete debate on tax laws. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-80	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you to come back, notary. Thank you very much. It is now up to the speakers who have spoken in advance in writing. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry. The time frame is 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Some of my opposition fellow Members are tempted not to speak to the tax laws along the logic originally considered. But perhaps here with my fellow Member, who spoke before me, I would like to point out this debate, in part, at yesterday's committee meeting, with great respect, before painting a picture of the country that is on the verge of being the result of the past 4-5 years, that the country is just not on the brink of a ravine. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He's in, yes.]] Europe's biggest economic growth has been achieved by this country [[Noise from the benches of MSZP.]] And you're at unprecedented heights? Is that what I want to talk about? here, among other things, the level of employment. Otherwise, if it weren't, I wouldn't be referring to it, but we've had three choices. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] To the speech of two other fellow Members, which I have already started here, let me also respond to the speech by my fellow Member Zsuzsa Szelényi in that he has said a lot of things here too, but what is perhaps worth arguing with is that the original sin would have been the introduction of a single-key tax, and how unfair it is, because the rich pay less than the poor. That's why it's mathematically absurd in the sense that a proportionate tax system [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: It is not proportionate.]] The point is, if you make more money, you pay more, obviously. So the logic you've mentioned in this regard doesn't hold up in the mathematical context either. The other: Mr Burány mentioned, in his speech, that the other one, which he said, is the main sin of the tax laws, that he is essentially continuing the anti-growth economic policy that has been in recent years. [[13.50]] Do I respectfully report that the result of the anti-growth economic policy mentioned by our fellow Member is that it is clear to everyone? Not only for Fidesz, but also for the European Union? Hungary has achieved the largest economic growth of the European Union in the first half of 2014, and these good economic prospects are also given for next year. But back to the basic statement: allow me to begin with the fundamental truth of the tax laws submitted that we believe that no country's economy can succeed, which does not support the work. This package of taxes will help the citizens of Hungary to work as much as possible. In contrast to the former socialist employment policy, since 2010, the government has sought to build a work-based economy. I would like to say that since 2010 we have had to do this work, as unemployment has almost doubled between 2002 and 2010 and employment in Hungary has been very bad at international level. Just one example: in the Czech Republic, in the same population and territory as us, there were nearly 1 million more people at work than in Hungary. This current tax package must go on with the tax policy of the previous four years to ensure that as many people as possible work. By the way, over the past four years, the tax policy that has been attacked by a large number of people, i.e. reducing labour taxes at the cost of increasing consumption taxes to balance, has led to an increase in employment from 3 million 800 thousand to 4 million 158 thousand people today. Again, this means nearly 400,000 more employees with mathematical simplicity. Of course, the reduction in labour taxes, the work protection action plan and the government's targeted employment policy have played a major role in the increase in employment. At the same time, as an indicator of good processes, nearly 100,000 people were jobless in June-August 2014 compared to a year earlier. Does that mean? Bringing in the international comparison again? that the number of unemployed people has fallen to nearly 341 thousand. This represents 2.3 percent, and today the unemployment rate is 7.6 percent, which has not been observed since the third quarter of 2008. In keeping with these directions, the government's aim in 2015 is to keep the tax burden on children's families, workers and predominantly small and medium-sized enterprises at a low level and to encourage the growth and whitening of the economy. Since 2010? Like I said? significant measures have been taken to create a work-based economy, such as the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs in 2012. In 2015, the tax laws intend to preserve the earlier results. This is also necessary because up to now, in the job protection action plan, nearly 890 thousand Hungarian workers have been helped by the tax environment in some way. This meant a total reduction of HUF 205 billion for employers in terms of burden. Next year, even part-time workers will benefit from tax relief, such as parents with small children, on the basis of the job protection action plan. The employer's social contribution tax allowance is extended, which means that, for part-time employees, the gross amount of HUF 100 thousand is enforceable in relation to employers of small children. What remains, I think, is a common and important goal, a tax relief for women working part-time. Demography has already been mentioned here, which I think is probably the biggest problem, and based on Western European examples, we know that helping women to work can help to have children. That is why it is important that these benefits will be available next year. Gyed extra continues, which also encourages employers to employ mothers with small children with a tax discount. Programmes that have led to an increase in women's employment rates over the past period should also be continued. There's only a few data here. The employment rate for women aged 15 to 64 was 55.7 percent in the second quarter, with an increase of 3.3 percent. This is, by the way, the best of the 28 countries in the European Union, and perhaps a point in which all parliamentary parties can agree as a goal. I also mentioned the reduction in the unemployment rate, that one of the best results our country has achieved in recent years. I will not mention again: the benefits for improving women's employment will remain on the one hand and will be extended next year. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Dezső Incredible.]] Of course, in order to give people jobs, two things are absolutely necessary, especially to improve the competitive position of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector that gives most work in Hungary, or at least to maintain favourable positions in most cases. As a person who knows the world of businesses, I can tell you three things: what does it take for businesses to give jobs? On the one hand, we need a stable economic environment. As a criticism, several of my fellow Members have said that tax legislation has essentially remained or has improved for small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 90% of entrepreneurs. Special taxes which mainly target the extra profit of large international companies have no or very small impact on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. The other: perhaps there is less talk about it, but is it also worth mentioning that tax laws can always be interpreted as tax laws establishing the budget, and is the most important objective in terms of stability? whether it's a domestic business or an international company? that the budget should be balanced. This budget provides an opportunity for the deficit of the Hungarian budget to remain well below 3 per cent in 2015, as it has been in recent years, below 3 per cent of what the budget has never been able to produce in the period of my socialist fellow Members, which is otherwise the basis of any sustainable process that is important for Hungary. I think that this stable economic environment is the best indicator for domestic businesses. The existence of development resources is perhaps less important for domestic businesses from the budget, but, as appropriate, it is very important, in which, I believe, significant progress has also been made in recent years. It is enough to think of loans that are now available at around 2-3 percent by reducing the central bank's base rate. But it is also very important for businesses to have a stable economic environment, if the country's budget is already in order, if they are able to finance their own operation, it is very important to have a buyer, as this is the essence of the enterprises. And are these tax laws and the budget based on them perhaps the biggest step forward? and again, we are talking about domestic businesses, because domestic businesses are living decisively on the domestic market? That this tax law, whatever mathematics we're counting, will increase domestic consumption in the next year overall, not only because inflation is somewhere around zero percent, thanks to the reduction in overhead costs, but also because of that? And there's less talk about that? Because next year's budget will basically be the budget for accounting banks, and according to the most conservative estimates, people will be in a lighter position in some way, so much more money will remain with them, which, based on a certain logic, will certainly appear in consumption. [[14.00]] So when we talk about the situation of businesses, it is worth mentioning that next year's tax laws give us the opportunity and the budget ensures that domestic consumption, which is so very important to the economy, will increase by leaving more money to the people as a whole. I believe that the tax law for next year must be supported in this respect. Are there any parts of it, of course? And that's why Parliament is here? which can be improved by means of an amendment, it is also worth making better. Overall, I can say that, listening to my fellow opposition Members speak, I have calmed down a bit with regard to tax laws because, in essence, I have calmed down from the right, from the radical right and also from the left? With the opposite sign, of course - they attacked the budget, some think it is less radical, some think it is too radical for certain taxes. I think that we should take the middle road, on the path that is in the interests of Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. We will therefore support it with amendments, and I ask that Parliament do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With the introduction of an Internet tax, the Orbán government would tax the future, freedom and knowledge, as the Orbán government wants to limit access to knowledge, the experience of freedom and information. Today, the only alternative flow of opinion and information is the Internet itself, and it is therefore impossible for the government to take away the future, access to knowledge, the field of free thinking and expression with this tax. Ladies and Gentlemen, That's the point, all the other bullshit. It is also a misunderstanding that this is an industry tax that people will not pay. Indeed, industry is supposed to pay industry tax, although you have failed to do so in Hungary, but, as you said, it is a type of sales tax that consumers pay, they are counting and they are paying. False and lying, therefore, is the argument that companies will pay this tax. Everyone take their share of the burden? it was said here in front of Parliament in relation to tax laws. We understand, so everyone should take their share of the public burden, which is why you've reduced the personal income tax on the rich by half. That is why you give to the wealthy and the rich as much as you give to those in need; that is why you will have people pay the costs of this through the Internet tax. However, the real goal, once again, is to tax the future, freedom and knowledge in Hungary. And on top of that, you're gonna want to run this Internet tax at all costs. Even when apparently their own fellow Members insulted him without a name, attacking this proposal, one of them ventured even to mention that he would have been willing to go to the demonstration. You will also introduce it if you have no idea how or how you intend to levy and collect this tax. They also want to introduce it when they anger everyone in this country from young people to older people, from teleworkers to intellectuals. You want to introduce it even if you deceive people, because we have talked about it today, more and more public services can be used only through the Internet. You will also introduce it if this tax is not charged to the families, fellow Members. To families. Contrary to any further misconceptions and today's keynote speech, the Internet tax will indeed burden families the most, as it will probably have to be paid per subscription or device, and in the case of mobile phones this will not happen otherwise. Therefore, for a multi-member family, these costs will increase exponentially. You want to introduce it, even if you use it to repel the economy, modern knowledge, which is the only breakout point in the country, and so far in Parliament, it seemed that there was full parliamentary agreement on this one issue. And they intend to introduce it even if, despite all this, the Hungarian budget will have little revenue. Small, at least compared to the fact that there are VAT frauds in the country of a hundred or even a thousand billion. At least it's small compared to close government entrepreneurs taking 40 billion forints a year from offshore companies in the gas business. At least it's small compared to the fact that you're building luxury stadiums with taxpayers' money for a hundred billion forints, for example, in your prime minister's village. And I'm sure it's small compared to György Matolcsy buying a luxury palace in downtown Budapest and a castle in the countryside for 18 billion forints. Dear Parliament, That's enough. If you need revenue from the government and the state, we suggest you take back the stolen hundreds and thousands of billions. Name close or government officials banned from the United States; eliminate government corruption; stop theft and turn to citizens for additional tax revenues. In the meantime, I ask you to listen to your Fidesz fellow politician, Zsolt Nyitrai, who I quote from 2008:. We do not support any tax increases, any new taxes, especially if this applies to the Internet. The introduction of a unique Internet tax in Europe is a pointless, unnecessary, unthinkable idea, which would make it more difficult to spread this tool and would further deepen the digital divide that exists today? said then Zsolt Nitrai Fidesz, MP. Please, let those words ring in your ears right now. And before they try to fight back on the subject, there is a huge difference between Fidesz and the MSZP parliamentary faction: the proposal of the then government, which was a fraction of the Internet tax that you presented, was not voted by the Hungarian Socialist Party parliamentary faction, prevented this tax from being introduced in Parliament. So, go ahead, it's your turn, if your fellow Members really believe, as they have unnamed Internet portals, that they are ashamed of this proposal, then it's time for the Fidesz faction to finally stand up for itself and stand up for the people. Finally, Honourable Parliament, this is not a tax. This proposal is a violent and sneaky attack on people's freedom, against the public, against the remaining freedom of press and information. Cancel this proposal, there is no amendment, there is no upper limit, there is no compromise, there is no patience and there is no forgiveness! Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-28-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-85	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, After listening not only to the events of this morning but also to the past weeks, I remembered the letter found in the Pest County Archives, which Kunó Klebelsberg, Minister of Religion and Public Education, wrote to the Minister of Religion and Public Education when he was the director of the National Museum. He wrote something like this in it that the museum's situation would be untenable if something didn't happen, then there would be serious consequences. And he sent the letter to the Minister of Religion and Public Education. In two weeks' time, he became the Minister of Religion and Public Education, so he answered the question himself. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: That was an honor. ? Zoltán Grimlock: It happened here too.]] According to the letter in the Pest County Archives, the answer was this: we received your letter, we understand the problem, and from this perspective it seems a little different. [[Lajos Korózs: We knew him. That's funny.]] This rather interesting letter came to my mind about what we heard about the tax laws in today's debate, because a lot of people here have tried to express their views on what is really the purpose of this tax law, but I think that it has been very little success, because of this submitted law, on which Sándor Burány said that the national expo was very short and that the main speaker was very short, it could actually be said as a merit, because this also means that this bill is a bill? breaking up with the old period of socialist governments? Instead of trying to turn the tax system upside down, it is trying to establish in a predictable way the objective of this tax law, by providing tax revenues, to provide the basis for next year's budget. [[14.10]] There is also little mention of the fact that, of course, the submission of the law was done correctly and within the deadline, and? I'm gonna say it again? in a predictable way compared to the socialist haste of many years. In the previous four years, the system has demonstrated that this tax law has helped to achieve financial stability, social security and economic growth. We could avoid excessive deficit, start an economic growth, reduce unemployment, and write this not only as a result of tax laws, but also as a result of the predictable economic policy that the Orbán government has been trying to continue for the past four years. Who are the main beneficiaries of this bill? The first beneficiaries are, of course, families raising children, followed by workers whose tax burdens are tried to keep the bill as low as possible. It is an important principle, which everyone should have done in the past, of course, that all economic operators must participate in taxation in a proportionate and appropriate manner in accordance with their capacity to bear the burden. The last speeches have constantly flogged both the VAT and personal income tax systems, but I cannot believe, my fellow Members, that you do not know? Or do I think you don't understand? that a tax policy restructuring has taken place in recent years, where we have shifted from income taxation to turnover taxation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: If you have less income, then this is stupid.]] You may think this is stupid, but the fact is that through a type of traffic tax a fairer public burden can be achieved, since those who consume more will pay more taxes into the state budget. [[Zoltán Grimlock: If not with VAT fraud...]] Is that a...? Obviously, Congressman, if you wish to take the floor, you can do so as a Member of the Council of one and a half days, I hope you will do so naturally. In any case, the consequences of this tax shift are very limited. You think it's unfair, and we think it's one of the engines of economic growth and economic development, which can naturally be regarded as a success. It is an important consequence of this proposal to answer the question of whether separate taxes are needed. Yeah, do we need these special taxes, just these special taxes? Like I said before? must be collected in such a way that proportionate public burdens can be taken from this. We believe that the bill will answer that. The important question is that this bill is also an opportunity to eliminate the black economy and tax evasion, because no one in this House can deny that the collection of taxes is our joint responsibility and our joint responsibility, because the state budget is based on it. Therefore, any action, any measure, any bill containing the greater extent of the collection of the tax, the reduction of the possibility of tax avoidance, should be considered to be welcome and supported. It is important, he said before me, that an electronic road traffic control system will also be introduced next year, which we expect to see the stories of long-standing urban legends, how to transport goods or empty trucks because of tax avoidance, to be screened, and to be able again to obtain the possibility of paying taxes and collecting them. It is important that few words have been said about online cash register tax collection and electronic toll collection, both of which can be regarded as a success, and I think it has certainly contributed to the good position of the budget. I would just like to talk about one more thing, because some of our fellow Members naturally felt the need to scare citizens. The telecom tax has already been mentioned, and no one has ever talked about the telecom tax, that, obviously, the telecommunications companies themselves have done something to try to avoid the payment obligation on a minute-based and SMS-based basis, and that is why they have gone into data traffic. So, reading the law, I would also like to state here that this proposal is obviously trying to prevent the activities of telecommunications companies which they have been seeking for tax avoidance. The original bill may not have been the most appropriate way to achieve the regulatory goal, but I believe that this can be helped. We will also make an amendment to it and ask for the government's support in this regard. I would also like to give you an example at the end of the discussion on the issue of environmental and health taxes. Tax increases on certain soap and other chemical products have been said. It is serious here and we can say that there has been a dark picture painted by Members, that people will forget to clean. Ladies and gentlemen, From the example of Baba soap, I would like to show you how much the price of Baba soap increases as a result of this product fee. Do I respectfully report to you that, at the moment, the price taken from an online sales portal in a supermarket chain is the price of this particular Baba soap per kilogram? I'm gonna say a pound on purpose, because then we're gonna count back with your help? 1600 forints, and the product fee per kilogram of this? In 1600 forints? 11 forints. [[Zoltán Haughty: But why then?]] So this Baba soap is going to be 1611 forints. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Your administration costs more!]] increased by product fee...
u2014-10-28-86	I'll give the floor to everyone, just press the button in front of him.
u2014-10-28-87	...the price of a 10 ounce Baba soap in general circulation, increased by a product fee, will rise by about 1 forint 10 pennies. You may ask, of course, what is the point of this matter then, but you often say Tyradas here in Parliament, that sustainable development must be supported, that environmental burden must be reduced, and that is the opposite. Decide which one is bound by you. I think it's because of these that you can see that the tax burden [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Don't take a bath!]] is virtually unchanged in this area as well. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor, and I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of tax laws with their proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. I give you the floor, Congressman. Life made it so that it had to be classified first, it was your turn.
u2014-10-28-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I'd like to pick up where Congressman Szűcs has finished. If you'll allow me, I'd like to respond to a few things right away. [[14.20]] You mentioned in your last sentences that opposition representatives have repeatedly argued that sustainable development should be promoted and supported. Let me tell you that it is in no way possible to introduce taxes for which the collection costs exceed the amount to be collected. So the effectiveness of those with such a tiny tax rate completely upsets the principle that we usually demand. We demand simpler systems, we want the tax system to be simplified, and the resources that can be collected really serve public tasks. I would also like to respond to Mr Szűcs, who said that there should be a proportionate share of taxation. In this case, I would like to remind you of yesterday's sentences by Béla Turi-Kovács, the interim president of the Parliament, who, with the wisdom of his time, found that this is not always fair, and this is very much and cumulatively true of the single-key tax system and this tax system, which is before us, that he is more trying to follow proportionality, rather than legality, but certainly not social justice and not what would serve people's interests more. Let me give you some examples of this, if you'll allow me. I do not want to talk about the Internet tax for a long time because opposition representatives have done so many times, but let me say that this morning Kossuth radio said that requests for the exchange of refrigerators can only be submitted online, and yesterday we were confronted with the fact that the compensation contribution can only be submitted online. So something more naughty than making it compulsory to use online services, convert public administration to online, then tax online use, is very few things to experience, and that is obviously why it gives us the opportunity to attack this tax as much as possible. My fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, spoke about the lack of green taxes, but, given my position as a committee, should I also mention that the government lacks the full sense of environmental burden? which will cost huge costs to dispose of - taxation will be carried out. There is a huge cost of public tasks, which we experience every day. Here is the case in Cuba, where the authority is practically unable to act in systems convicted of a final judgment, because it does not have the necessary resources to dispose of it, but at the same time we do not collect enough environmental charges to encourage the reduction of the environmental burden in part with a tax background and, in part, have sufficient resources to eliminate environmental harm. The total lack of green tax systems is, or is not, a complete lack because it is symbolically present in the tax system, but cannot express its substantive effects, there is no tax effect that would encourage taxpayers to choose smaller environmental load industries, carry out less environmental load activities, and, at the same time, the level of taxes collected in this area is in no way sufficient to provide sufficient resources for the related tasks. I have been very, very concerned about the question of the reduction of the price of goat meat in relation to the reduction of VAT on foodstuffs. I do not know how much goat meat is consumed by the Fidesz faction, and I am completely surprised by anyone who buys how much on a regular basis. The majority of the goat's exploitation is in goat's milk on the market, it is not affected by its tax, it remains original, and the goat, which does not have a substantial need for the internal market in Hungary, is being touched; this could have been resolved by another tax system. To a significant extent, we would have liked to have been left with more unhealthy foods, which are more harmful to public health, and elsewhere, by the way, to take into account what makes sense. In the same way, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable government to the decline in fish consumption in Hungary, which makes it completely impossible for fishery producers to ignore public health conditions and health conservation considerations in Hungary. Many farms often find it difficult to sell and at the same time not to sell, even though the sale of fish would have wanted the possibility that if the government had resorted to such a tool, it would be included in this group. In addition, I explained earlier on the VAT reduction that the lasting solution would obviously be the elimination of this single-key tax system, which would allow for greater social justice so that people with lower incomes can keep more proportionately and those with more incomes more involved in the financing of public tasks and more involved. So the alpha and the omega of everything is the fault of the single-key system, which, unfortunately, cannot be handled with such a VAT reduction system. We also see that employers' burdens do not change to the extent that they can affect employment in a meaningful way. It has often been said in interpellations between Parliament's walls, when we have asked the representatives of the government that the government stands up for the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, but we do not see in the current tax package that self-employment, individual businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises and small social enterprises are intended to help in any way. At the moment, one of the major obstacles to legal work is that employers' contributions are so high that it is impossible for them to have the social desire to work as much as possible, and a relatively unfair or often influenced tender system does not in itself provide any help. Most of the problems are, by the way, for small producers and for primary producers. In this matter, we will have several amendments, which we will submit on the deadline, and we will see to the greatest extent that with significant constraints...? the activities of small farmers and pre-farmers who live in a lifestyle, who maintain family farms, who may market craft products as additional incomes, carry out domestic food business and try to participate in local direct food sales. It would be good for the tax system to make a significant contribution to the preservation of this sector, the rural population. To sum up, I would like to point out, very briefly, once again, that proportionate taxation is not fair taxation, it is not for social justice, and I would therefore suggest that the government consider the tax system in its entirety, but if any? Pride or something? For reasons that you do not wish to do, I would at least ask for the small amendments to be adopted. In this case, Congressman Harghitai said that in his tax policy, the government's previous consistent activity, I see that it is consistent with what it has to say before 2010, and it follows in a lot of ways what it said before 2010 and, unfortunately, it does not want to carry out the desired tasks in government activity. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-90	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-28-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue where our fellow Christian Democrat John Hargitai left off. Within the tax laws, I would like to talk about Fidesz and KDNP's family policy ideas and philosophy and how this is implemented in the tax laws and how it is strengthened. For Fidesz, the child comes first. We consider it very important that the support, strengthening and assistance of families raising children remain in the coming years, and, as far as the economy is able, this should be strengthened. We recognise the effort that Hungarian families are making in order to have children and raise children, and our policy says that we would help with tax reductions and tax subsidies in the first place. As my fellow Members have already said before us, we are not primarily thinking about aid, but we are saying that the way to prosper is through work, and that families who even take up a job alongside raising children are having children along with work? It doesn't matter how you look at it. They deserve all the credit, and they deserve all the support. We also want these families, beyond the tax system, to feel that they do recognise this socially beneficial activity in public life, in politics, and that recognition is not only expressed in words, but, of course, also in legislation. Since 2010, and even during the first Orbán government, we have continued this philosophy, now allow me to go back a bit in time. Thanks to this tax system, i.e. the transformation of the tax system, almost HUF 185 billion more income was left over by the families in 2013, in fact about 950 thousand Hungarian families. At the same time, it is important to mention that there were families with lower incomes who could not enforce the tax relief, so from this year, so from January 2014, these families can deduct the tax relief from not only taxes, but also contributions. [[14.30]] Thus, the livelihood of nearly 270 thousand families has become easier by using a total tax reduction of HUF 230 billion per year. These are very large numbers, so allow me to give you an example. This meant a net income increase of HUF 16,000 for a parent earning a minimum wage and raising three children. Therefore, the main objective of the 2014 Tax Act was also to strengthen and support families, and the 2015 tax package, which we are discussing now, is to continue and extend this work in order to enable the requested income to stay as much as possible with the Hungarian families. In this tax law, three measures directly assist families raising children. Here we will introduce the first couple's discount, which will allow every young couple who marry for the first time in 2015 to receive a monthly discount of HUF 5000 from their personal income tax. Here I tell you, it may seem a little detailed that you can use this discount until you are entitled to a family discount after your first child, but not for more than 24 months from the date of the wedding, so for two years. [[Continuous noise from the benches of the MSZP.]] With this, we support the marriage of some 30,000 young couples each year in 2015, with HUF 1.6 billion, and in the following year this amount will be HUF 2.6 billion. Mr President, it is extremely disturbing because it is infiltrating the speech that my fellow Balliberians are having a very sarcastic conversation. It's disrespectful to the whole subject, by the way, what we're talking about here. You can argue about these laws. [[István Tukacs: In fact!]] But to get rid of good intentions and the fact that this policy has a basis can't, and we think that this policy is right. I do not consider this behavior worthy within the walls of this House. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: It is not worthy that so many people are here!]] The second such measure, which directly helps families, has been heard for some time now that parents with two children will receive greater support than before. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: When?]] From 2016 onwards [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: We are talking about 2015!]] Until 2019, the total amount of the family benefit they enjoy will be doubled at four paces. So, instead of the current HUF 20,000 per month, you can use HUF 25,000 per month from 2016, HUF 30,000 from 2017 and HUF 35 thousand from 18 and HUF 40,000 per month from 2019. This will increase their support by a total of HUF 55-60 billion in four years, which will amount to a total of HUF 600 thousand plus benefits for these families, broken down into one family. Speaking of our family policy, allow me to open a parenthesis, because tax laws also state that tax benefits for children are entitled to families who are otherwise entitled to family allowances. Let me also say a few words about it within the closing moment, this is an older measure, but it has proved very useful that families whose unauthorized failure to comply exceeds a certain limit fall from school support. [[There's a cell phone jamming the audio system.]] It was a very important measure for the child to go to school and for the parents to take care of it and send the child to school. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The phone should be turned off, Congresswoman.]] I'd like to close the parentheses, but I just wanted to show you that we have a systematic approach to these issues. The third point I would like to mention in the tax package is that we want to help and support families with three measures, and that will also make it easier for families with children next year. This is that after the employment of parents with small children working part-time, employers will still benefit from the same level of tax relief as full-time parents. This will make it even more worthwhile for employers to work part - time parents with small children. For many years we have been talking about strengthening part-time employment. I think this is now the manyth measure by which we support and help the employer to employ parents who have children in part-time work. This amendment concerns some 14 000 employees, after whom employers can use almost 900 million forints more tax relief from labour costs in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you have been convinced that there are several elements in the tax law that have just been submitted to strengthen and support families. I therefore hope that he is worthy of your support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-28-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker from the independent Members is Mr László Varju, who will take 4 minutes and 51 seconds. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-93	[[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, [[He's adjusting the microphone.]]
u2014-10-28-94	We'll wait for the congressman to put the microphone on, and I'll ask you to start your time from here.
u2014-10-28-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, In order to discuss the subject, I would like to read a quote from the current report of the State Audit Office, which shows what good governance means. Good governance, based on the definitions of the UN and other international organisations, is a way of operating the state, characterised by consensus-searching, encouraging participation, equal opportunities, transparency, accountability, effectiveness, efficiency and respect for the rule of law. Now, ladies and gentlemen, on this law, in your work, none of this can be seen. Therefore, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that for the Democratic Coalition the proposals of the Hungarian polyp association Fidesz are unacceptable as they are. After an obvious and simple calculation, you can see that an average family will lose at least 10 thousand forints a month as a result of your referral. Therefore, for both 2014 and 2015, one word of the rusty lie you are telling people is not true; it is not true that they have any use for what you are doing. For this reason, it is worth looking back at the tax laws for the first time what has happened in the last four years. The 27 percent VAT has been introduced, and the daily shopping of all Hungarians has been significantly expensive. More than 20 different new taxes have been introduced, destroying the competitiveness of many Hungarian companies. They created Europe's most unfair, unfair income tax system, resulting in 16 percent of the HUF 150,000 income of a librarian in Karcag, while Minister Mihály Varga pays 7 percent of his HUF 1 million income. Your proposals on this situation and on the situation of businesses do nothing to improve, in essence you have proposed to drain businesses and people. This tax package is perhaps also unique in one thing all over the world: the levying of new taxes. New taxes will be introduced or extended in seven different areas of the economy, with hardly any being invented or applied anywhere else in the world. They're introducing the Internet tax, and you can see exactly how many tens of thousands of people, in the spirit of their efforts to reach consensus, protest against such a procedure. [[14.40]] Therefore, you must and may also object if you introduce the investment fund tax or tax the home-cooked brandy or extend the financial transaction tax, levy new taxes on alcohol, soap, deodorant, detergent, photocopying paper, as we have heard several times before. This is all detrimental to families, and it is not true that they will benefit in any way from this aspect. At the same time, at the same time, a lot of meaningless investments continue to take place, which, by the way, is a significant part of filling friends with money. One of the typical examples of this, which follows from this law, is that when other chains of stores are sabotaged and otherwise the CBA is specifically assisted, and this is done in such a way that every other store to which Hungarian products are otherwise supplied is also sabotaged and placed in an impossible position, with a levy of 5-6 percent, and thus expensive people's lives. However, the news of recent months has also been about an important event that NAV is abusively harassing businesses and is monitoring them until they find something. Ladies and Gentlemen, This is now not only the subject of the rumor, but it is now officially confirmed before you, and it is all waiting for your statement as to what you are willing to do or what you can do about it. There is no way that what's in the bill is that you have this stalking attitude. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They want to further strengthen it. Your initiative cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's been a while, and now we have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked for the floor and I speak to the six Fidesz Members in here because all those who wish to respond to it are no longer here. Nevertheless, I think it is very typical when my fellow Members speak of the draft before us and mention it as a budget. No wonder it's bothering me, by the way, because it's been hard to talk about nothing for 15 minutes, and that's why I don't think it's a coincidence. He has not responded to one aspect of this draft tax, even on a critical basis, even if you are now failing an initiative. But at least I'd do it consistently! Congressman Harghitai says that we need an Internet tax because the services will grow, full coverage will be achieved, and money will be needed to do so. Congressman Szűcs justifies this draft by saying that, in fact, service companies are net tax frauds. And as I hear it, the Prime Minister says that this Internet tax money should have been used to raise the police's salary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, At least decide the reason, because I believe that there is a big turning point in your life, this turning point is that for the first time in your life you may have to face the fact that what you are doing is not pleasing to people, and it also makes a voice. Therefore, I think that if you were to withdraw this Internet tax, you would not have to call those tens of thousands of people who publicly agreed to stand up to the Internet tax. They should not be classified in different ways and should be offended, they have done nothing more than to tell you, my esteemed fellow Members with six fidesz present, that this is not good. Therefore, it is still not too late to withdraw this draft, and then it will be all right. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-28-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian next, please.
u2014-10-28-99	Mr President, Dear House, I wanted to respond to three pro-government MEPs who said that the Hungarian economy is booming, that it is world-beating for certain indicators, the first in Europe, but none of them are in the room. So I'm going to go to the Secretary of State to get someone to stand up, take an honest, masculine opinion, see what comes out of it. With regard to the booming of the economy, it should be noted that indicators are strongly raised by the temporary effects resulting from the spin-off of the end of the EU budget cycle, but let us be glad of that. Let us not be counter-incentives, it is a good thing, but this year, the following year, there will be no similar upswing, as no such boost will be expected with the EU budget cycle and the roll-out of tender money. At the same time, the world record VAT? Are you sure it's a record in Europe? Corruption continues to be a hotbed. Besides, it is not possible to measure the performance of the economy in GDP alone, and you will be in this mistake for the fifth year. It could be measured by access to education and by the number of children born. And here, progress is not visible at all, even if there are gesture measures and I do not dispute them. But the most amazing thing we can't go without saying is that you're talking about strengthening a work-based society, improving labour market statistics. Let us look at these statistics when 70 percent of public workers are on leave or unable to give them a job when winter comes. Let us look at what will happen next, and let us also look at what will happen to small entrepreneurs who are affected by a similar situation in the context of the so-called Internet tax, if they are talking about strengthening a work-based economy. What about the young Hungarians, the Hungarian companies who cannot avoid this burden? You responded in one sentence: the telecommunications tax or the Internet tax will be paid by the service providers. I have one question, and I ask you to stand up and express yourself: how will you prevent passing this type of tax on to Hungarian people? How will the tricked citizens be saved after the transfer of a bank special tax transaction fee [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] From the fact that the service providers are also burdened with this burden? Stand up, tell me honestly, you're a man of your opinion. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-100	Thank you very much. We are going to continue with the proper speeches because, according to the rules of the House, a two-minute walk from a group is possible. Now we have a block of four members: Pál Völner, Zoltán Gőgös, László Pósán and István Ikotity. Then you will have the opportunity to make two-minute speeches. As I said, it is up to Mr Pál Völner of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-28-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The tax package, which is ahead of us, also contains a number of proposals to facilitate and promote everyday life. One of these changes is the conversion of the transaction fee paid by financial institutions on credit card purchases. Although the rate of the levy does not change, according to the relevant provision of the tax package, the financial transaction fee paid by financial institutions should be recognised differently for card purchases from next year onwards. The levy shall be based on the sum of all payment operations of the preceding calendar year per card. The rate of the levy is up to HUF 500 if non-contact transactions have been carried out with the relevant card or HUF 800 if no contact-free payment is made with the credit card. The amendment therefore limits the annual maximum rate of the levy and encourages banks to pay without contact and to issue cards with such technology, while also stimulating the exchange of acceptance infrastructure, i.e. supporting innovation. The latest payment statistics published by the Hungarian National Bank show that the increase in the turnover of electronic transactions continued in the second quarter of 2014. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's why we have to tax the Internet!]] The modernisation of electronic cash flow can be observed in several areas, thus increasing the proportion of non-touch card payments, and the role of online card usage is becoming increasingly important. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right.]] The number of cards with touchless payment function increased by 22 percent in the second quarter, but still only 30 percent of payment cards, 2 million 700 thousand can be used in this form. The number of paypass terminals allowing non-touch payment increased by 8 percent compared to the previous quarter. However, according to MNB data, only 42 percent of the nearly 91,000 terminals still have this function. The amendment therefore favours card payments and, in particular, non-contact payments, so we can trust that it can further accelerate the spread of comfortable and secure non-contact payment options. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2014-10-28-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Zoltán Gőgös. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a brief reaction to Paul Völner's comment. Congressman, we are pleased with the transaction correction and cheaper making with this card, but I would like to say that there are no bulk terminals and no ATMs in the villages. [[14.50]] So that's what you're referring to? There are traces of really good elements in this, but it is an extremely bad law in its main elements, and I can only say, as our lead speaker, that this should actually be withdrawn. I haven't done much in one day, but I've been arguing a lot over the last term of government? At times, even with the Prime Minister? the tax philosophy that has emerged now that people have to leave income and then tax consumption. That is so, if there is a job, and a job where work can be made a living. But the situation in Hungary now is that not only does it have problems living, and not only do those who are unemployed cannot have access to basic living articles, but also those who are working, and that is the biggest problem. That is why the philosophy that keeps consumption taxes in Hungary, for example, at an unconscionably high level, is wrong, not to mention the other things, but I will come back to that in a separate way. Much has been said here about the Internet tax. I would like to highlight one thing in particular: the Internet is an opportunity that reaches the children of the capital in exactly the same way as the village child in the remotest small corner, so they can collect exactly the same information, that knowledge about him. I think it's a huge crime to limit access to this by not being able to afford it. This is where it was said that all households will be introduced by 2018. About the same as the gas in their village that the stump is there, but no one can heat it because they can't afford it. I don't know if this trip is right, but I'm sure it's not, so that's why I think it's possible to do one thing, and there's no way to say there's going to be a cap or no cap? This tax shall be withdrawn. The other element in this tax law is the question of VAT. We talked about this a lot, I talked about it here too, but let me just say that we submitted a package of professional organisations, first of all in the autumn of 2010, which does not concern the whole basic food circle, but a food circle that makes it extremely difficult to compete with foreign, black imports. These are the product types that are basically in the small people's consumption basket, and there are no special, extra things in it. We have seriously curbed import opportunities within Europe, obviously it cannot be further out, and there are a lot of products in it that are most characteristic in Hungary. This would indeed cause some tax losses, we do not dispute it, we have never debated it, but the result of all this is the whitening of the economy, I am convinced, in about a year, if not positive, but would bring the system to zero, and we would need significantly less energy from the authorities, not to mention that we are now there, at least according to the news that the authorities are using this high VAT content for extortion. This is a very big mistake. Let me tell you, it has been said here several times today, and I do not know if my fellow Members who mentioned this know at all what kind of traffic there is in Hungary, but when the half-carcase VAT was dropped to 5% last year, I said that the Chanel-suited ladies will look good on their shoulders with half a pig on their way out of the Moon Street market, because they only show up for consumption if someone buys this. Added to this is the quarter beef, which I'm not sure the Chanel-suited ladies can handle, because it's a little bit more difficult, but from the product range that is in the VAT reduction here, this is the only product that is commercially available in Hungary. 'Cause I'm asking you, where can you buy the macaw in the official shop in Hungary? Where can you buy sheep meat in an official shop in Hungary today? There's still meat, but it's 27 percent VAT. Then I'll ask you where you can buy half a sheep or a quarter of a sheep, which, let's say, fits into this. Once again, quartered beef is the only thing in this circle that's supposed to be marketable. 97-98 percent of all other listed products are exported. That is why I can't help but think that this is an anesthesia of incompetent large masses, that there has been another VAT reduction in the food chain. This was the main news of the morning when I was almost having a laugh about the terrible way they were getting involved in the VAT case. I propose that, in addition to our amending proposal, in which the whole product scope is specifically listed, which represents an exceptional competitive disadvantage for Hungary, especially in view of the Russian embargo, stand next to it and this VAT must be taken back. The authorities won't be able to handle it. It was said here that the electronic toll will be checked whether the truck is empty or not; it will not weigh, I would like to indicate the electronic toll system. So from now on, the fraud that causes a thousand billion dollars' worth of damage can't be treated. In my opinion, if the authority were not lenient in certain product products, clothing, iron, and I do not go on listing, but these large items, I add, are much larger than food, then there would be plenty of funding to reduce the VAT on basic foods in the event of a loss of between 150 and 200 billion. The other thing is, we also see that there's a new tax system here, and many people didn't even realize it was a custody fee. This is not in the tax laws, it is in the food law; this supervisory fee has increased by 60 times among food distributors. No one should have any doubt that this will be passed. Nobody! They can't farm it. So you can't put up a face like this on those players who otherwise put food on the market; and of course, there's another favorite of them who misses it: this is the CBA. The other very negative thing is that, and perhaps in the debate on the tax law, it should also be said that the authority uses its own systems and politics for the authorities, not for what they are for, but for intimidation. We have been informed of a number of cases where tax checks are carried out at the direction of Members and food safety checks are carried out at the direction of Members. The last case occurred after a demonstration, not on Sunday, but on a previous agricultural demonstration, where a injured Hortobágy farmer brought up two bulls to show what to take to the slaughterhouse if he didn't get land; the next day he had the authority from the capital as a commando. I think that it is possible to do this, but this is all oil on the fire, my fellow Members, and it would be very good if this were to be changed, and politics did not interfere with the work of the authorities, and the people of the authorities who were involved in sin should not be concealed, but condemned, sought and prosecuted. So, ladies and gentlemen, this tax law is wrong, so Hungary will not go forward, but rather back away, so that the Hungarian countryside will suffer further damage, which, of course, is not acceptable, so we can only propose that this be withdrawn and that we prepare a new one together. I mean, in particular, food VAT. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-28-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr László Pósán. Here you go.
u2014-10-28-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words in relation to corporate tax, because the current changes concern research and higher education, and I think in the right direction and in a positive way. On the one hand, the proposal contains an administrative measure whereby corporate tax R &amp; D benefits will be available only on the basis of the preliminary classification of the National Intellectual Property Office from 2015. This therefore means that taxpayers can only apply the benefits of corporate tax and pharmaceutical tax on the basis of the preliminary classification of the National Intellectual Property Office. So far, this has only been optional. I think it is well suited to actually account for R &amp; D activities in this area, and not on a public announcement basis, for things that are not particularly relevant in this area. A new element in the corporate tax law is to introduce higher education grant agreements as an opportunity. According to this, the taxpayer may benefit from a corporate tax base in the case of aid granted under a higher education grant agreement. The Corporate Tax Act introduces higher education institutions into an eligible category in which public benefit organisations have so far been able to benefit. Is there a percentage of aid granted to organisations in this category? Was that between 20 and 50 percent? the current change, which can be deducted from the tax base, sets this value at 50 per cent for higher education. [[15.00]] The higher education grant agreement is concluded by the taxpayer with the maintainer. Obviously, the maintenance can be the state, it can be a church and it can be a private institution. In the case of aid granted under a higher education grant agreement, the taxpayer may reduce his or her pre-tax outcome if he or she has a certificate issued by the higher education institution for the purpose of establishing the tax base, including the name, place of establishment, tax number, amount and purpose of the issuer and the taxpayer. Under the grant agreement, the supporter shall support the higher education institution for at least 5 years under pre-established conditions. This means that if there is, for example, a company that has, say, HUF 5 billion in revenue and gives HUF 100 million in higher education support to a university, then its accounting result will be HUF 100 million less. It can even reduce its tax base by 50 percent of the aid, i.e. by 50 million. Thus, you will have to pay approximately HUF 28.5-30 million less tax. That is, the aid of 100 million actually reduces the company's result by only 70 million. This scheme is fundamentally favourable to domestic businesses and is less favourable to large international companies, where accounting results play an important role in the award of management bonus points, in premium applications. This change in the corporate tax law can therefore create a more favourable condition for domestic companies to develop closer cooperation with higher education institutions and to be able to cooperate more and more in the field of R &amp; D. At the same time, this change, if not completely, may also provide some kind of picture of what economic, corporate relationship system a higher education institution currently has, if you like, market embedded. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] By the way, if we are trying to picture them in a sum total to the higher education institutions now, we can say that, for example, a higher education institution the size of the University of Debrecen can expect an additional half a billion forints in the present circumstances as a result of a change in the Company Tax Act. Of course, it is also important to be aware that the category to which the higher education grant agreement belongs is not the same as the so-called Tao grant. Tao support is intended to help support the film industry, performing art and sport. In this case, the taxpayer may transfer part of its tax already established, up to 80% of it, with the prior authorisation of the NAV, to the organisation to be supported. Changing and amending the Company Tax Act certainly puts higher education in a more favourable position. At the same time, it is worth noting that the plans for the development of a dual-track training structure for higher education will also be an opportunity in the future to make specific VET contributions in this sense available to higher education for vocational training purposes. With regard to the future, I think that this will certainly bring about an increase in resources for this sector, which is essential for the development of a high added value economy, I think. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-28-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members and give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP.
u2014-10-28-107	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, I would like to add a few things to what has been said so far. After the summer rush, the government amends the advertising tax on both revenge and its own oligarchs, but its disproportionateness does not change. The advertising tax continues to function as a bot, a tool for political battles. The second change is that the corporate tax benefit, which has so far been used only by sports clubs, is extended to higher education institutions. This is a welcome step, and even according to the LMP, we should go further on this path, to support completely other sectors and civil society organisations. We think it is important to maximize it, so we should have a ceiling so that more people can have a smaller amount, and not the current nünuke of the current Prime Minister, in this case everyone around the stadium in Felcsút. If you can make a much wider donation, there is no informal pressure on companies. There is also a change in the introduction of a tax relief for those who marry, which unfortunately will not have a real impact. According to the LMP, it is the responsibility of the State to provide all the conditions for couples to have children. This would require changes that would ensure that women are able to return safely to the labour market, which would support the creation of flexible, family-friendly jobs and affordable daytime childcare facilities. There is no progress in this area. With regard to the extension of family tax incentives for young children, LMP stresses that this is in fact a violation of the Fidesz-KDNP electoral promises. Three times this year, in three elections, they promised to double the tax relief of two children, but this will not happen in the end. Finally, I would like to talk about an Internet tax which is in direct conflict with the development of a knowledge-based society and the availability of cultural values. The Internet tax runs counter to what Miklós Cseri said after the appointment of Deputy State Secretary for Culture. I quote: The two key strategic points of our work are cultural basic supply, access to cultural values and participation in cultural value creation in all settlements, for all people, as well as the promotion of cultural communities, community development, which serves both to create the chance of falling social groups and to strengthen the middle class, to become responsible citizens. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the time, we asked the Ministry what specific commitments we would like to achieve this objective, which we also have hotly supported. Unfortunately, we didn't get a merit answer, but we didn't think that the government would go against its own objectives, as it is doing now. The Internet is now one of the most important tools for making culture accessible to all and for spreading cultural values. Many cannot get to exhibitions, theatres, even cinemas, but they have access to numerous legal content on the Internet. The Internet tax would also make this difficult. The Internet is now an essential tool for education in knowledge-based economies. In the education system of countries building a knowledge society, the Internet is part of everyday life. Not only can students meet the Internet and modern computers at computer science hours, but with the help of the Internet, they learn more and more about these tools in other classrooms, not to mention home learning. Hungary does not seem to want to take this path, it does not want to compete with knowledge-based economies. It is not enough that a school computer purchase is subject to constant overpriced, wasting or corruption, but now the Internet is also taxed, making access more difficult. The Internet is now an important field for learning all kinds of things, whether it is about doing a school homework, learning a language, writing a university paper, whether it is about adult education. The Internet is now an essential tool for working in more and more jobs. The Internet is also a storehouse of opportunities for recreation and entertainment. The Internet is also the scene of culture and culture. The Internet is part of our lives. That's what you want to tax now. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2014-10-28-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-10-28-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'll tell you, I'm very pleased that Minister Sándor Czomba has now returned instead of Secretary of State Tállai. It's just because he's the one who's most concerned with what I have to say. We have been debating tax laws here in this House for hours now, but unfortunately, what is a very serious and important change is very few words. In particular, in addition to local taxes, municipalities will now be able to introduce so-called municipal taxes. [[15.10]] The fact that this is now likely to happen according to the government's will is clearly due to the failure of the system of financing the task, which the Secretary of State invented and forced upon the Hungarian municipal system at the time of the Secretary of State for Home Affairs, and this is a declaration of shame that, unfortunately, as much as the government has said, it has not fulfilled the expectations, and indeed it has. However, you want to add another and even more trouble, in particular, despite the fact that Hungary was still full of billboards of giants in the election campaign, that is, more money for the municipalities! This is what you think is being created, not by the government, by the central budget, to ensure the otherwise real costs needed to carry out public tasks in individual settlements, but by allowing the local authorities the opportunity to sabotage their own population and continue to smear it. They do this in a way that, in my opinion, they are entirely unconstitutional, but they do not comply with any further legislation, either the legislative law or the municipal law. I will explain in my further speech how inadequate it is. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-10-28-110	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For two minutes István Tukacs has the floor.
u2014-10-28-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to what I have to say in two things: one is the support of higher education institutions by tax relief for companies and the other is the discount for young married people, which can be described at HUF 5000 per month. On the first subject, I would like to point out that, although it sounds very nice to say that certain potential revenue from companies will be offered to higher education institutions for various R &amp; D activities, and this will certainly reduce their tax, but I would also like to note, fellow Members, that if this goes hand in hand with the reduction of public resources and the further reduction, because the support of higher education institutions has decreased from 180 billion to 120 billion, this means that some institutions are doomed to death. Because I'm sure the Mercedes factory in Kecskemét would be happy to sacrifice for the training of the local college, as well as sacrifice, but the college for educators, where the biggest R &amp; D event is that if someone in the linguistic department processes Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county's vineyard names, they won't get a penny, because no company will sacrifice. In the second case, I would like to note that, unlike Gabriella Selmeczi, I do not know of 30,000 possible marriages. By the way, there were 37 thousand of them in 2013. However, it should also be noted that these relate only to the first marriage, and to those who can actually write HUF 5000 off their taxes, so they have jobs for example. Therefore, I think that by doing a quick head count, the tax lawmakers wanted to give someone something, and to invite this as a favorable moment, but this is the will that can be put into, say, 2-3 billion forints, a little sweaty. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-112	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Mr János Pócs, Member Fidesz.
u2014-10-28-113	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to speak on the part of the proposal before us which deals with alcoholic products. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: It is very important!]] First, the 2003 CXXVII on excise duty and special rules for the marketing of excise goods. I would like to talk about the rules of law on fruit spirits, in Hungarian on the new legislation on pálinka cooking. These changes are aimed at EU harmonisation. The new rules for private cooking have been created by a regulation in this so far slightly under-regulated area without significantly increasing the load on the spirits produced. The 50 litres of fruit spirit produced tax-free so far can continue to be prepared in the context of private cooking, and then only 1000 HUF flat-rate tax is payable to the local government. A further transparency measure is that distillation equipment used in private cooking must be reported to municipalities and an annual tax return should be made on finished distillates. Such registration is also common practice in other countries for alcoholic products produced at reduced prices and, in addition to making legally produced products traceable, does not impose any financial burden on producers. It is a small tightening of the fact that these preferential rules can only be applied to individuals with own-owned fruit or raw material derived from fruit. Although, I don't think it's too hard to comply with that rule. The private-cooked brandy can only be consumed by family members and guests, and no money can be asked for for the spirit thus offered, but it is also possible to sell the brandys made in private cooking, but only for the alcohol tax warehouse. The legislation seeks to ensure the most favourable rate available in the case of spirits produced in the brewing of wages. 1 litre spirit with a tax rate of 50 per cent For the purposes of this Regulation, excise duty shall be payable at the rate of HUF 1670, which is half the normal rate of taxation for alcohol products. Although this is certainly a big change compared to the previous one, there is still no small concession compared to other alcoholic products. I would like to emphasise that this only applies to the cooking of wages. All the more so, as the 2011 CII on the Public Health Product Tax. As a result of the amendment of the Act, several alcohol products have been included in the neta-only products except beer, wine, sparkling wine, certain alcoholic medicinal products and fruit spirits and spirit drinks produced using up to seven types of herbal medicinal products which do not contain additives. The rules to be introduced against the harmful effects of alcoholic beverages determine the rate of the spirit drinks in the alcohol-dependent bar system. And while we are on the subject of alcoholic beverages, it is certainly worth mentioning that the tax and other legislation of bottled spatters will be adapted to the rules applied to vine wines, thus making their distribution tax-free and not requiring tax returns. I believe that these tax rules are very moderate to the extent possible, but they will not ignore public health interests, so they should be supported in any way. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-10-28-114	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr Lajos Korózs, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-10-28-115	Thank you very much. Dear House, It's a pretty sad sight to see as many people sitting in the benches of Fidesz as five or six in a regular village council meeting. At a time like this, the Minister of Finance should be sitting here, I suppose. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We didn't say that. Really, where's Mihály Varga?]] Or normally that's the case, and the Prime Minister should be sitting here, who hasn't been found for two days. They'll give you an answer... [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Well, what is not.]] Which you don't, but in a normal country. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There's a Minister of Finance. In any case, I would like to advance the fact that the tax bill submitted will not be supported by the MSZP, so I will shoot the joke. [[András Tállai leaves his seat as Secretary of State. ? Mrs. Loránt Violin: Don't go. There's no steering! The government has resigned!]] There are at least five reasons for that. First of all, it takes two or three times the cost reduction. Secondly, this law preserves all the disadvantages of the Hungarian tax system, including high tax burden and administrative burden, without substantially improving the competitiveness of the tax system. Fidesz has previously promised to create Europe's most competitive tax system, compared to this, but several Members have pointed out that the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is significantly worse in many indicators than in 2010 when governance was taken over. The third point, which is why we will not support it: the new sectoral special taxes and the HUF 5000 Internet tax are another tribute that economic operators and Hungarian people will have to pay, and of course this is because of the government's failed economic policy. Of course, there is also a semi-spoken remark here that small service providers that supply the Internet in some settlements are likely to fail and fall. [[15.20]] And here's the next point. This tax law, in my opinion, takes the money of honest taxpayers to the core for corrupt and corrupt power. And the fifth point that we do not support is that all taxes are paid by the people. Several of our fellow Members have also referred to this, but our lead speaker, Sándor Burány, has also stated this itemically. The Hungarian people paid the bank tax, the Hungarian people pay the transaction tax, the increase in telephone costs and the Internet tax. It was a rather poor answer from Antal Rogán yesterday, who said in his speech before the agenda that the Internet tax should now be paid so that everyone will have the Internet free by 2018. Now, listen to me. If we go on with this logic: I've been paying my pension contributions for decades, I'm going to retire in 14 years, why don't you pay me a pension now, because I'm already paying my pension contributions? Oh, there's no answer to that? I see! Dear House, It is now apparent that a simple election bluff was the expansion of the family tax relief, as it will not rise by a penny in the following year. We can see this as a violation of the government's electoral promise, and this is a double-crossing of the Hungarian families, because everything that is positive in this referral will only be valid from 2016. Tax experts have calculated how much the net wages of two children have increased. According to this, next year the affected families would have received 13 usque HUF 20,000 more. On the other hand, there's an Internet tax, which I think is a crime. There will be an increase in the food inspection fee, the special taxation of toilet products, and the taxing of cafeteria, and then its abolition, because otherwise this will be the end. They didn't even think about killing domestic tourism. Many country shops, restaurants, pensiones are ruined because of the lack of guests. If we add all this up, it turns out that three times the amount of money they love is now being reduced in the form of taxes. I mentioned domestic tourism, and it's related to...? Ladies and gentlemen, please give us two unscathed sentences on what will happen to the Erzsébet camps. They've been running it for the last two or three years. What about the beauty card? You know perfectly well that it is there in the explanatory statement: today we had to pay 157 thousand forints tax to the cafeteria of 100 thousand forints, and according to the bill submitted, we now have to pay 198 thousand forints instead of 100 thousand forints. Five years ago, the tax content of the cafeteria was zero forints, and in five years it increased to 51 percent. This cannot be explained in a way that is woeful but good for employers and workers. Dear House, It remains a problem in the system that those who have more receive more, who do not have a taxpayer's income, and who still does not get anything. The family allowance remains for them, which has already lost 30 percent of its value in the span of about five years. They probably won't even increase it next year, at least when we asked them about it, they didn't give us a positive answer. So they will inflame these social benefits indefinitely. Do the rules on the use of family benefits also change? Article 10 Is that what you're doing? , inter alia, where several individuals are entitled to the benefit with regard to a beneficiary's dependant, the condition that the tax return and the benefit be shared is that the rightholder makes a joint declaration stating which of them enforces the benefit or communicates their decision on sharing, joint enforcement and changes that, in order to eliminate abuse, I stress: in order to eliminate abuse? in the future, only in the case of the communication of the tax identification mark of dependants and dependants, the family benefit shall be enforceable and the provision shall apply to declarations made after 31 December 2015 pursuant to a transitional provision, or to declarations or tax taxes relating to 2015 respectively. It also shows that all of this will only become something in 2016. Several people here mentioned the first couple's discount. According to the proposal, a couple with at least one of the parties' first marriages may benefit from a tax allowance of HUF 5 000 per month, but only until they are entitled to a family tax benefit. But the justification shows a little more of this. The justification is that the draft is to increase the desire to marry. I'm sorry. If someone lives in this society, pulls out their wallet and gives a young man 5,000 forints, you think he's getting married for this? You can't be serious. The desire to marry may be increased by one of the Fidesz MEPs, but for this reason, a normal person will not be married for a tax allowance of 5,000 forints in the future. But if there's a normal woman, she's not getting married for that kind of money. [[Dr. István Tiba takes the notary seat.]] I don't think she's going to encourage children, either, because, my dear friends, since 2012, most of the mothers have had their first child out of wedlock, and is there an area like that? Demographers say there's an area like that? in the country where two thirds of children are born in marriage. To expect this measure to boost childishness, I think it's more than nonsense. Dear fellow Members, To conclude, I would like to add two elements to this I believe to be a fluffy tax law. One: Widows thank you with great respect for the taxing of cemetery flowers by HUF 1900 before the day of the dead. I'm a very thorough man, I've listened to all the speakers. Well, I almost got a laugh when Secretary of State began to say that the pre-fabricated spatter's tax will be reduced, the bottled spatter's tax. Dear fellow Members, Well, normal Hungarian people don't drink pre-tanned spatter, they do it freshly. They know how it is in the little spa: a tiny solo olaszrizling, and then the soda, and then you drink it; and you don't drink bottled spatter. My dear friends, this is probably how the water will be improved, but this will be the only way to facilitate VAT fraud. The second funny announcement was half the goat. You don't really think you're gonna go into the butcher's butcher commercial and tell me I want half a goat. I see one thing for certain, my dear friends, that if this tax law is implemented next year, it will mean higher taxes, an increase in poverty, and an increase in inequalities. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-28-116	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Mr. President Novak for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-10-28-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As opposed to the previous solo, I must share Fidesz's position on the question that a HUF 5 000 grant will contribute to the desired increase in marriages. Obviously, this can be measured not only in money, but not everyone is as wealthy as, say, the Member before me, who may consider this not significant. However, for Hungarian families, even families without children, there can be enough support per month to possibly choose a more serious form of cohabitation, marriage, in which statistical data show that more children are born and relationships are more stable, which is also in the interests of children. That is why I am also pleased with this initiative. Another issue, for example, is that when we talk about the Internet tax, it specifically affects large families. The reason why we look at this aspect is because if you maximize the value of this in 700 forints, it will hit the mobile internet in particular, where this limit is reached in rare cases, and where there are several subscriptions, the tax rate can be higher than 1,000 forints from mobile Internet alone for an average family if everyone uses mobile internet. So it will strike families in a particular way. Therefore, I would also encourage the government to say that Hungary's main problem today is population loss. That's what Jobbik bravely said, and we put it in our program. And if they dare to say that, I think that this is the basis for the tax laws, and on the basis of this, a number of measures could be put in place such as, for example, an amending proposal so that we do not drag down for another five years the amount of tax relief for the second child, but that we should make this increase even next year. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-118	Thank you very much, Congressman Novak. Another two minutes: Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz. [[15.30]]
u2014-10-28-119	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The speech that our colleague Lajos Korózs said confirms themselves: old faces, old people, old ideology. They can't tell us anything new. They know one thing: scare me, yeah, scare me. That's what they learned, that's what they inherited. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear fellow Members, Mr President, They stood up for the multinationals and banks, now they stand up for the telecommunications service providers whose pure profits are HUF 70 billion. They feel sorry for them. They just make it look like they're gonna be burdened with people. They're not gonna overload it. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You don't have to hide behind people. You're hiding behind the 70 billion forints profit service providers. Dear fellow Members, It was you, and you're the one who's been alarming me. They alerted me and squeezed me when they could. Remember, when they said 23 million Romanians were coming, they took away our hospital beds, they took away our schools, they took away our pensions, they took away our sick beds. They didn't take it. Then your actions came. Hospital allowance came in, prescription fee, 13th month's pension, 13th month's salary was taken away. That's what you did. They were judged by the people. Three times this year, people have passed judgments against alarm and austerity, along with a reduction in overhead and a family tax reduction. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a shame that you assume and judge those women, as you said: a woman who marries for five thousand forints is not normal. Clearly, you have no idea about Christian values. [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] A marriage isn't for money, it's not for 5,000 forints, it's not for 500,000 forints, it's mostly not for anyone. You have no idea. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] about the Christian values in which we testified that what was made before God could be chosen by God. [[The president's ringing again.]] Is that you? and did the speech confirm this? Who can only think for money.
u2014-10-28-120	Congressman...
u2014-10-28-121	And don't forget [[The president's ringing again.]] If you can do anything for money, you can do anything for money. Thank you, Mr. President. Sorry. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-10-28-122	It's been two minutes, Congressman, and I'm asking you to keep that in mind. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs for two minutes, MSZP.
u2014-10-28-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will also talk about why I asked for the two-minute period, but I would like to tell my colleague Pócs that we have not been alarmed, the situation is alarming, my fellow Member. Alarm! What can you say about the gross and brutal taxation of non-wage benefits? If we tell you this, is this a scare? What can you say that you want to tax a service that is the engine of the economy? And this is the Internet? Where else is the essential part of life? What's with the alarm, fellow Member? The situation is alarming, in which you think you can do anything and it turns out you can't. Plus, if I were you, I'd be a little more careful, Congressman. More than 10,000 people on the street and almost 40,000 people on the street with their names on resistance and Internet tax can't be accused of being the lackeys of service providers. Because that's what you did. He did nothing but say that anyone who objects to the Internet tax is protecting the service providers. 40,000 people who took his name, they're not protecting the service providers, they're trying to reject an absurdity, and they're trying to get you to understand that this isn't working. Dear fellow Member, To be wrong is human, even the hedgehog found that when he failed to make contact with the root brush. But being wrong is human. If you admit that, and you say that I reject that, then it's okay. That's your solution. For which I asked for two minutes: one of the best tax experts in the country noted with some malice that what is pushed to 2016 or later would usually be nothing. That's also my strong suspicions about the family tax reduction. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-10-28-124	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Mr István Horváth, Member Fidesz.
u2014-10-28-125	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on issues relating to the agricultural sector in relation to tax laws, and I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this. In particular, I would like to justify the reduction of the general traffic tax rate for the sale of large live animals, bovine, ovine and caprine animals and their carcases from 27% to 5% and to ask for the support of honourable Members. Before I continue to comment, I would like more respect for the countryside from opposition representatives, in particular MSZP representatives, more respect for the people working in the agricultural sector, more respect for the people working in animal husbandry, and more respect for the people working in the meat industry. I am very sorry that my condescending fellow Member is no longer in the room, he quickly said what he had to say, and he went out. I was pleased to say that Mr Gőgös once again strengthened Parliament, and I trusted that he would also strengthen the agricultural section, the agricultural lobby. Compared to this, his comment proved the exact opposite. A little déj? I have a vu feeling. When we were here at the tax laws of a year ago, at the initiative of the Ministry of Rural Development at that time, the government was very wise in supporting the reduction of VAT on live pigs and half-carcases from 27% to 5%. At the time, these similar demagogic comments were on the part of the MSZP that this is in vain, it does not solve anything, it does not have any significance, and they have tried, I think, to degrade this very important decision concerning this sector. It is also important to know that a reduction in VAT requires political courage and economic strength. I think that in the Fidesz-KDNP government there is political courage in any way, and economic strength is constantly increasing, but obviously progressiveness is also a very important and forward-looking wisdom to reduce VAT. But what the significance of reducing pig VAT from 27 percent to 5 percent was, a year ago, everyone could only visualize whether it was good or not, but if you will allow me, I would like to talk about the facts. The assessment of the first half data clearly showed that market participants had a positive view of the VAT reduction. But beyond that, I would like to tell you more concrete things. It's better to buy domestic material today. At the beginning of the year, low demand was generally on the rise, and producers reported an increase in turnover. According to KSH data, the purchase of slaughter pigs by number increased by 8.2 per cent and by 9.5 per cent in weight compared to a similar period in 2013. According to Nébih data, imports of live pigs decreased by 11.4 percent in the first half of 2014, while imports of live pigs decreased by 13.7 percent in the end of August. This also shows that the VAT reduction has significantly reduced imports. This means that domestic-produced pig trade has increased in any way. The turnover of breeding animals has also been boosted, due to the fact that the purchase of breeding animals was also included in the 5 per cent VAT cycle. Obviously, this included the whitening of the sector, or many farmers did not choose their breeding animals from their own breeding population, because, where appropriate, it was not able to provide the so-called quality or the required growth, as a breeding animal purchased from a serious breeding establishment, so the so-called smaller farmers had a greater opportunity, and they had greater courage to purchase breeding animals from breeding farms thanks to the VAT of 5%. Thus, trade in breeding animals has also increased significantly. According to the latest data from KSH, pig populations also increased, with around 200,000 more pigs in the same period compared to 1 June 2013 and a significant increase in the number of anacoca. Obviously, part of this is also due to the whitening of the sector, but it is also a real product because of the increased sales of breeding animals. Moreover, the number of pig farmers increased, this is also a specific figure: on June 1, 2014, the number of pig holding enterprises was 17 percent higher and the number of individual holdings was 5 percent higher than a year earlier. [[15.40]] But let's also look at the NAV data. Based on the assessment of NAV's VAT-based data? Would you like to present the first half of 2014 to the House? the balance of livestock trade significantly improved; domestic sales increased by more than HUF 23.2 billion, approximately 5.3 percent compared to the first half of 2013. In the latter case, 74 percent of the increase was due to the pig farming, meat processing and live animal wholesale sector. Intra-Community purchases, charged on the basis of deductible VAT, decreased by nearly 14.4 per cent compared to the first half of 2013, while domestic purchases increased by 5.5 per cent in the sector under investigation. On the basis of the above, there is a trend that the turnover in VAT declarations has changed compared to 2013. And what's really important? and this shows the economic consequences of this decision, which is now the last six months, can now be clearly measured in a year's review? that the declared VAT balance in the sector increased by HUF 3 billion in the first half of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the government, on behalf of the sector, for this wise decision that was made by the Ministry of Rural Development, now the Ministry of Agriculture. It is clear that the domestic meat processing sector has become more competitive, domestic breeders have clearly become more competitive, and it is no longer worth importing half-swine and live pigs from abroad, and it is much better to buy domestic raw materials, thus clearly increasing the liquidity of all operators in the sector. But that the tax law before us was a continuation of this earlier, and now also envisaged a reduction in VAT of 5% in the bovine, ovine and caprine sectors, in the voice of MSZP representatives, I think that there were quite unworthy comments to be rejected in any way for the sector, when they indicated that they would take out a half goat or, where appropriate, a half sheep. I also reject this kind of tone on behalf of sheep farmers and goat farmers, because in many rural settlements the number of goat keepers is increasing significantly, the number of sheep keepers is increasing significantly, and the trade in live animals generated there, I think that this will help sheep keepers and goat farmers in any way, and this type of VAT reduction will significantly increase their liquidity situation in the purchase of breeding animals. And what is very, very important: goat meat is very excellent and very healthy meat, so I encourage everyone in Hungary to buy as many domestic goats and sheep as possible. It is also the aim of the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, now to increase the consumption of goat meat in Hungary, in order to support healthy lifestyles and goat farmers. In the case of cattle, it is clear that there has been a significant increase in bovine herds in Hungary. If we went through the country a few years ago, no cattle could be seen anywhere, but now it is possible to go across the country with meat, sheep, or goats typically grazing outside the border of every settlement, and a growing sense of maintenance. However, when we look at the consumption of meat, it is disappointing that today, a significant part of the gastronomy is abroad, or in Austria, or, where appropriate, South American, Australian beef is imported for gastronomic consumption or commercial consumption. In several cases, it was the high VAT content that made it worthwhile for the hosts to go to Austria. With a significant reduction in VAT for cattle and meat cattle, it clearly strengthens the competitiveness of the sector in Hungary and clearly stimulates the related trade. Our aim is to increase domestic demand, increase domestic consumption for the three animals listed, i.e. cattle, sheep and goats, and ensure a stable, calm and balanced livelihood for those in this sector. To sum up, I thank the government, on the part of the FM, for this kind of support, for the tax laws, and we encourage the government to make additional VAT reductions for transit items. Is this possible, where appropriate, in feed, since there is a significant black trade there and in the case of soya meal? if there will also be a decline in the next time, say, next year at the latest in VAT content, are you sure? In this feed segment, too, trade would become white, clean and transparent. So, overall, I would like to ask this House to support the whole of the tax laws, but to put a great deal of emphasis on agricultural issues, so that we can make more competitive for farmers in rural areas and families that want to thrive in rural areas. Finally, I once again call on the MSZP representatives to show more respect for people living in the countryside who live from animal husbandry, and to help the countryside with their comments, and not as a white-collar politician, so to speak, to degrade it or consider it a less significant job and task. Those who are engaged in animal farming today are hardworking, committed, decent Hungarian people, whose goal is to thrive, and their aim is to ensure that Hungarian pork, bovine meat, sheep and goat meat are produced and produced on the table of Hungarian people in Hungary. So I'm asking for the support of the tax laws. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-126	Thank you very much, Congressman István Horváth. State Secretary András Tállai has applied for an extraordinary speech.
u2014-10-28-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I feel that at this stage of the debate, the government must speak, thank you very much for the opportunity. [[Nándor Gúr: The TV broadcast is almost over!]] I'd try to react in a short time. It was lead speeches. First, the MSZP, Sándor Burány started by criticizing both the author and the lead speaker of Fidesz for how short he spoke, and then he did not speak 50 minutes 40 seconds of his own time, because there was simply nothing left to criticize and criticize, apparently in the tax law. However I listened to Sándor Burány's speech, the most serious criticism may have been: that this tax law will take 10,000 forints out of the pockets of families every month. Now, there was no specific number or argument behind it that this tax law would take ten thousand forints out of the taxpayers' pocket. I don't really understand how that's possible, anyway. He criticized the Internet tax, but all opposition speakers, essentially all opposition parties, Jobbik and LMP. I can tell them the following: I would like to say five things regarding the extension of the telecommunications tax: First of all, the service provider will pay for it, and that's for you, whether you like it or not, that's right. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Or not.]] Secondly, the tax will be maximum and maximum in relation to the proposal submitted. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. ? Dr. István Józsa: Wow! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] The amendment proposal is already in front of Parliament, it will be 700 forints a month for individuals, and it will be 5 thousand forints for non-individuals, which I would like to stress once again? the service provider pays [[Ancient Novak: But in the case of families?]] the service provider pays. [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] [[15.50]] The third thing I'd like to say [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If you'll excuse me, of course, because they're yelling behind my back, I don't know why, by the way... [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: 'Cause you're talking nonsense!]] I don't say stupid things when I say [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] That the service provider is paying and that the maximum... at least listen to it! [[István Tukacs: I resent that we are calling on you! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] The third thing is that the tax on telecommunications is to deduct the corporate tax paid. Thus, a service provider pays either corporate tax or this extended form of telecommunications tax. It is natural that the Government will do its utmost to ensure that if a service provider tries to enforce the transfer, it will not receive any assistance in any way. According to today's legislation, there is a law against unilateral modification of a contract; see, for example, in the case of foreign exchange lenders, banks pay back these damages. I would also like to stress to the public that the government remains open to amendments. [[Dr. István Józsa: Sure!]] The minister will meet with the service providers. You've met in the first round, we'll do it in the second round. We will process all proposals received by 13 November, and if the government considers it necessary, it will be incorporated into the bill. The government will launch a digital development programme, which will mean that broadband will reach all households by 2018. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The transmitter! ? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] So, as I said, there was no concrete statement in the speech. Sándor Burány criticized the schnapps freedom fight. This is not true, since in terms of own-cooked pálinka, own distillery-produced pálinka, the 50-litre tax reduction per household will remain essentially in the future. A thousand forints of distillation equipment is charged to the municipality annually. I think it's a symbolic tax. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Everything is symbolic!]] So with regard to your own brandy, once again, the discount remains. [[István Tukacs: You are a great expert on brandy!]] Sándor Burány made the most ridiculous mistake when he accused the government members of not being a public health product in the future. [[It's a rare blur.]] It will be a public health product tax, because the congressman has mixed the honey brandy with the honey cookie. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] That's what happened. This is also typical of MSZP's readiness and attitude, since the cake in which the honey accounts for 20 percent of the 40 percent sugar content is a natural raw material is exempted from the product tax. But you have to pay more taxes on honey brandy than you do at the moment. [[István Tukacs: We don't know that much about it! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] So the accusation that government members have entered the system and are benefiting themselves is an accusation and nothing more. For example, the criticism that hygiene will be more expensive means what it means in particular. Does it mean that in the case of soap, the environmental product fee will be introduced? Is that true? , 11 forints per kilo. Today, a Baba soap is 12.5 ounces, the price is 180-200 HUF. If you redistribute this, you will get 8 Baba soaps per kilo, the price is 1 forint 50 penny maximum, which is charged the current 200 HUF soap fee. So that's not true either. But if we calculate the same thing, say, on the shampoo, we can see that it rises by 10-20 forints...? can rise because otherwise, the distributor may not be able to transfer this to the population? In the case of a 500-600 forint shampoo, it increases by 10-20 forints. So much for how you share society and how your standard of living is getting worse. The MSZP proposes a VAT reduction, with several speakers. I would warn the country that if the MSZP VAT fell, because the MSZP VAT reduction is essentially an increase in inflation, for example, in 2006 you reduced VAT from 25 to 20 percent, while inflation increased by 0.3 percent by 2006 and then inflation increased from 3.9 percent to more than 8 percent in the next year. So much for the price reduction effect of the MSZP VAT reduction. And by the way, it's typical of you to increase your VAT from 15 percent to 20 percent in the same year. Then the price of basic food, when you steered, was 12 percent, and you raised all the basic food VAT to 25 percent. So, when you now require a reduction in VAT on basic foods, it would be good to think a little bit about what happened during your own governance. Therefore, neither the price could be reduced and, at the end, the VAT of 20% was raised to the original level from 1 July 2009 to 25 per cent. What I can tell you is that there are no substantive criticisms on the part of the MSZP. He couldn't explain why it would be worse for families. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Aah!]] and could not justify the fact that the VAT reduction was... [[Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: The cafeteria...]] With regard to cafetheria, it is true that there is a government idea that the burden of wages and extra-wage benefits should be brought closer together, but we think that we should wait for the response of companies, entrepreneurs and employers, because we believe that sustainable economic growth will create so much surplus for these companies that they will not reduce extra-wage allowances to workers, however much the MSZP wishes or wishes to do so. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: No, you don't.]] In a year's time, we'll get back to it, and we'll see that the extra-wage benefits didn't go down for the employees, because that's the criticism. But it's just another wish that this would be good for the MSZP if it was reduced. The Jobbik. Dániel Z. Carpathian? I don't know, is he here? Is it? said the same thing, that the burdens of families grow by 8-12 thousand forints. One argument, no criticism, a product or something, a tax increase on why otherwise. It just sounds good, and so he told me. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: She said it because it's factual!]] Besides, Dániel Z. Kárpát was not talking about the tax law, he said the usual right-wing horse-zung, which are the following: the government made a pact with the banks, the multinational companies in Hungary do not tax, the government has no concept of economic policy. Only then do I not understand how employment grew to nearly 4 million 200 thousand [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: 'Cause it's not a woman!]] ; how the number of unemployed people decreased by 100,000; and how Hungary performed in the first half of this year by becoming the first country of economic growth in the European Union if it does not have any concept. The usual pass-on comes, they pass on everything, they pass on the extra contributions to all the companies, they pass on taxes. If there is so much pass-on, then I ask why inflation in Hungary is now zero percent. [[Dr. István Józsa: No money!]] If this is the big pass-through that everything here is expensive because it's passed on, then how can inflation be zero percent in Hungary? [[István Tukacs: Because it is not!]] It's basically zero percent. [[Nándor Gúr: You don't know what it means!]] So I think that Jobbik has not been able to express criticism of the tax law either. The LMP is the usual: Internet tax, cafeteria. The LMP demands a green tax, but when we extend the green tax to a product, it is, of course, against it. Normal opposition behaviour. And even the extension of the public health product tax doesn't agree with Jobbik [[István Tukacs: There is no television anymore!]] It does not understand that there is no natural raw material in these products, and its health impact justifies its inclusion in this tax product scope. You're talking about breaking up society, which I don't really understand in relation to the tax law. Finally, I would like to respond to Mrs Hegedűs Loránt, as she said that the extension of municipal taxation was necessary because the task financing system failed. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: You have failed, yes! Unfortunately.]] The task financing system has not failed; it is working, but it has become a little more painful for the municipalities with so far high revenue, because it has to be given to those who otherwise have no taxes. Extension of municipal taxation is an opportunity that the municipality is either using or not using. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we are happy to continue the debate, now halfway through the debate or a little over half of it, so I thought that I would like to make these arguments from a government point of view. Thank you for listening. [[Loránt Violin: And TV time is over! ? The TV broadcast is over, you can go home!]] [[16.00]]
u2014-10-28-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The MSZP will now have the opportunity to give its opinion, but preferably only one to speak. Congressman Nándor Gúr!
u2014-10-28-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll try to talk alone. I am looking for Viktor Orbán in the walls of the House, but I think he is on the street, because he wants to hold a national consultation with tens of thousands of people who, say, think they want to consult the Prime Minister about the Internet tax. I'm guessing he's there, which is why he's not here in Parliament. Or if he's not there, where is he? In bad language, perhaps not even in Hungary. But the person of Viktor Orbán does not belong to the tax laws, although the absence of him is, so let us talk about what Mr Tállai said earlier. That there's no criticism? Yes, you do. The problem is not that there is no criticism, but there is no solution, Mr. Secretary, for your part. What they've done so far and what they want to do is, I can say it in a word, it's terrible. It is simply a horror because you are doing nothing but tearing this society apart; you are doing nothing but making the situation more difficult for the remaining layers that have already fallen behind. Families, businesses pay more taxes? If we're on a tax basis, let's be clear about the tax? , pay more taxes than before. In 2013, they paid 6.1 percent more than in the previous year. So it doesn't seem like much, 6.1 percent, but if I say 6862 billion forints? Do you know how much that is? Six thousand eight hundred and sixty-two billion forints. A billion forints is a thousand million forints. Well, that's how much money people pay more taxes, families and businesses. [[András Tállai leaves his seat in the meeting room and moves towards the benches of Fidesz, and then takes a seat next to István Happy.]] I know it's hard to accept, to endure, so you have to walk along, but it's okay to hear it, Mr. Secretary, and to note it to yourself, and try to stop it from working that way. Economic performance can also be discussed. You don't have to fix a country by charging taxes. In the three years of 2011-12-13 in terms of economic activity, do you know what they have produced? One percent over three years. One percent. It's not economic growth, it's zero! The year 2013 is nowhere compared to the 2011 result. So, the whole point of this is that you can talk about anything, you can lie about employment expansion, you can lie about the employment of foreigners through slid statistics, you can distort statistics by increasing the number of people employed by the public and the number of part-workers. Yeah, sooner or later, people will realize all their lies, and they'll drive you where I think they are. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] But even if we look at the situation not in terms of employment, but in terms of wages, they can also become more involved, they can also think about what a public employee is doing in Hungary today. Fifty-one thousand forints worth 42 thousand forints against 60 200 forints in 2010? Their two-thirds government took away the wages of one third of the people. The minimum wage was less than in 2010. The difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage has increased over the last four years, and this difference has doubled. What are you talking about? About what? They're lying all over people's faces, and they think it's gonna solve everything. Temporarily, yes, but not permanently. But not only is there employment, but there are not only wage issues in favour of the tax, but there is clearly room for discussion about deteriorating competitiveness. You too, my fellow Member, Mengyi, have also mentioned competitiveness. Well, four years ago, Hungary was 52th in relation to 148 countries. Now he's in 63rd place. What's this? What's that in the ranking? Falling or Growth? What does that mean? Loss or return? If someone slips back to 63rd place in terms of competitiveness from 52nd place, I think it should not be seen as a positive result. But I could say in the same way that my fellow Member, Mengyi, spoke so proudly of: he says that public debt is falling. Where's it going? What are you talking about? The summary figures for the second quarter of 2014 show that government debt is above 85% compared to gross national product. It has never been of this magnitude, of this magnitude, exceeding HUF 25,000 billion! Tell these things, show them to the people, and that they bring all that you have to pay more taxes individually and individually! Yeah, because you have to pay more taxes. Or if you don't just have to pay more taxes, we'll take away from you the benefits you've had so far. And besides, they're making the forints worse, they're making the loan more expensive. And with regard to restrictions? With regard to the possible restrictions, think about what is happening with regard to the cafeteria, with regard to other benefits. What I have to say to you is that, in terms of extra-wage benefits, what happens is that until now, the public burden has reached 36 percent? Was it 35.7 percent? - until then, 52 percent? Fifty-one point-tenths percent. It's the public burden. That's what it grows with. Do you think employers and employers will be motivated to maintain the cafeteria support system with such a public burden increase? And when we talk about benefits other than those that cannot be considered non-wage, do we face a tax burden of between 65 and 66 percent? Did they lift this, too? And they say that competitiveness is maintained in such a way that it is not considered a non-wage benefit, that it is raised, that the public burden of non-wage benefits is raised, that there is a difference between them, that they maintain their competitiveness? Ridiculous! Don't you think, Secretary of State, that this is the situation that calls for life that it won't be worth paying these benefits to the employer? [[András Tállai: No.]] I'll give you five or six examples in this regard, not much, just so you can remember. You do realize that in the case of holiday services, if someone, an employer, owns a holiday, this has fallen into this circle? You do realize that if you had a dining room at the employer's premises and provided meals through this, you had the 35 per cent public transport capacity up to HUF 12 500 per month, and now you have 52 per cent? You do realize there are thousands of other things beyond the holiday and catering: the Elisabeth voucher, the Széchenyi card, the SZÉP card? At the Erzsébet voucher 8 thousand HUF, at the SZÉP card, let's not mention how many versions, which are reduced, so again, the amount of funds allocated to the consolidated subaccounts for 500 thousand HUF cannot be reached, it cannot exceed, it can only reach 450 thousand HUF. You do realize that, as regards school start-up grants, 30% of the minimum wage had the opportunity to do so and that this also increased the public burden on school support benefits, which was not necessary for the wealthy, no, especially for those who lived their lives under strict accounting and tight conditions? And you also know that, in terms of the possibility of travelling by the workplace, the possibility of buying the lease, public costs are raised to this extent, right? Today, the overall benefit that a given person can obtain in a given year amounts to approximately HUF 8,000 per month. Do you know how much monthly rent is in Budapest if someone buys it? I think it's about nine and a half thousand forints. You can't even buy your rent in Budapest from the total of these benefits. He knew more about it before. Well, that's what you do by taxing such extra-wage benefits and increasing public burdens for people. I have to tell you that the most drastic measures are being taken in terms of people in the lowest income range. Although it's not a stranger to you, it's what you've been doing for the past few years. However, in the same way as for civil servants, the amount of subsidies and benefits that can be used for the public sector, as I said, will be reduced to less than HUF 100,000 net. And you're talking about competitiveness and employment and what else? All I want to say to you in terms of competitiveness is that you remember the difference between 52 and 63. Hungary slipped back with eleven seats. What I'm trying to say to you about employment is that a million new jobs, taxpayers, a million new jobs, taxpayers. Make a note of it, Mr. Secretary. Or if you can't remember, take out the Fidesz program and read it. A million new tax-paying jobs. It's not anything else, it's not a growth in public employment. Not a four-hour man out of eight hours. It's not counting people working abroad into statistics. That's what you should remember. And in the meantime, regarding the submission of this tax law, regarding the excise taxation you were talking about, the failure of the freedom fight of the brandy. 50 liters instead of 200 liters. That's a quarter, Mr. Secretary. You know that. I'm sure you know very well. [[András Tállai: Isn't 50 liters enough for a family?]] Better than me. The issue of the dangers of bringing public health problems to life in terms of the environmental product fee. The Internet tax, so that I don't go any deeper, but it's unacceptable. Do you know that in Miskolc, for example, 17,000 laptops were distributed before the municipal elections? Now go and distribute the free cards about the Internet tax. There's not gonna be an Internet station here, my friends. They won't be authentic, but then they might not be so discredited. [[16.10]] And between my last sentences, all I would say to you is that you must not make false promises, but bring to life actions that are in the interest of the people. People can be fooled until this hour, not in the sense of infinity. And you don't have to talk about family tax breaks by whispering about it, but there will be something in 2016, then in 2028 and 72. No, in 2015! Now, at the end of October 2014, we are talking about the tax laws of 2015, and you should be mindful of them, and should rather ensure that, later on, in a manner that is in the interests of workers, they reduce the price and VAT of basic foodstuffs to 5%. It should be borne in mind that the minimum wage should not be lied to people's eyes, giving a net minimum wage of at least 100,000 forints, which is higher than the minimum wage of 88,000 forints. If they did things like that, they'd do things for the good of the people. Everything else you do under the tax law affects them on the one hand and your unscrupulous...? and the possibility of corruption allowed by you in this country. This has to end sooner or later. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-130	Thank you, Congressman. A two-minute circle follows; first of all, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2014-10-28-131	Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! At this stage of the debate, I think we can conclude that tax laws have more losers than their winners in the future, but I have found a neutral player. As a very positive development, we have heard from pro-government representatives here what progress the bottled injection has made in the tax relief category. I'm sure Father Tibi is very happy about this, so I'm going to convey his good news. [[Defiance.]] Seriously, though, there is no way to say such good news about schnapps. I accept that the extra tax burden on private cookings of a thousand forints is indeed not such a serious one, since this must be interpreted on an annual basis. At the same time, it raises the problem of thinking about Fidesz's previous legislation and the new tax burden that comes from year to year, that it will indeed mean that you will see all such equipment, and it is clearly your intention to increase this burden year to year. And that 1670 HUF is not as small a thing per litre as you have said, but it is a bloody serious story. I'm guessing if this stays that way, up to a third of the payrolls could close in a year, because it's gonna hit a lot of people. Not many people will then make a pálinka per litre for HUF 1800-2000, with a lot of negative effects, let me just point out, for example, that many people have spent millions of forints in setting up a pálinka, even taking EU funds for this purpose, where there is a five-year maintenance obligation. So a lot of people have been put in a difficult position with this unpredictable policy, which they have also pursued in this story, and the rest will then be continued in my normal speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-132	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP.
u2014-10-28-133	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Mr. Secretary of State Tállai mentioned in his summary that he doesn't know how we know he's taking nearly 10,000 forints out of each family's pocket? Well, shall I tell you? It's the tax law. Accessing the Internet at home, as you say, is HUF 700; if the family has mobile Internet access, telephones for children and parents, with HUF 900; the Erzsébet voucher will rise from the current HUF 1238 to HUF 1857; the Széchenyi rest card will remain 1547; the voluntary pension fund contribution will remain 464; the health fund contribution will double, the HUF 618 will double. [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] ; the local lease will increase from HUF zero to HUF 1624; starting school allowance from zero to HUF 464; work meals from zero to HUF 1238; total this is HUF 9412. There is no need to explain in particular that there was a fellow Member who pointed out that if there were more Internet mobile phones in one family, this would increase the family budget proportionately. Speaking of which, allow me one more unsearched sentence, fellow Members. János Pócs's speech is so primitive that I don't appreciate it, but for the record, please allow me one sentence. I'm a proud social democratic politician. I was a socialist when he was still a communist. And I'm not gonna let a political squeak like that, a squirt who's got a black job in his melon fields, I'm not gonna let him talk to me like that! Thank you.
u2014-10-28-134	Two minutes, Benedek Sallai, LMP.
u2014-10-28-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, used to press this button a long time ago, and I wanted to respond first to Congressman Pócs, because in my opinion it is entirely legitimate that a government that takes Christian morals and conservative ideology wants to help the marriage. So I don't see anything wrong with that, and I think if you want to govern and represent some value with the tax rules, you can do that. My problem is that you want to sell this as an incentive, so you can't encourage it. The problem is, if you say you want to promote this with this tax discount. The fact that the decision has been made has not bothered me so much, the one thing that has bothered me most of all is the one that my fellow Members have pointed out that they want to sell this as an incentive to young people. I also wanted to respond to Mr Pócs when he said that he was going further in line with the background of the tax laws for families. What I think we need to see is, overall, that it's the foundation, the alpha of everything I've already told you today, is a one-key personal income tax. There are two kinds of families and poor families and wealthy families. The wealthy family can take their children to the beach, take them skiing, and take them on holiday in the summer. A significant part of the families are not in this situation, and no VAT reduction or any other discount will help, only if we leave much more in their wallets and have more money and try to pull them up. So it would be a rethink of personal income tax that would actually help this and there would be a way to take action on this. However, in relation to part-time work, Gabriella Selmeczi said that part-time employment will also be supported. Let me tell the government that this measure alone will not be enough until there is enough nursery space until children can be injected until the support system of the Chana is in place. And I wanted to tell my fellow Member, Horváth, that I agree with what he said about goat meat in terms of healthy nutrition, only then the question is why fish is not included, which would be even more justified. Why isn't it in there? And if the goat is involved, then why is the goat's milk and goat's milk not included, because, like most goat's keepers, he tries to keep his livestock for the benefit of me. So they're missing that [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This should have a substantial impact. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-136	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2014-10-28-137	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I am very sorry that Gabriella Selmeczi and other Fidesz Members are no longer here. They can be so self-respectful when they're in the room, and after they tell us what they have to say on television, they're handing us out, they're gonna take their bags and they're gonna get out of the room. It should be noted that we saw during the day that very few Fidesz politicians with KDNP dared to take this debate with their face. I would like to talk a little bit more about the family tax relief, and many have mentioned it during the day. I'd like to talk about the two children here for a longer time. The increase in the family tax reduction was promised several times this year, before the EU elections in May 2014 it was announced that there could be a significant increase in the family tax relief of the two children, but Antal Rogán talked about it already on 10 May 2014. Mihály Varga didn't give us any details in advance, he just said that the changes could take effect from January. It should be pointed out here, honourable Members, that we are talking about 350 thousand families with two children. Even before the municipal elections, they dragged the honey business away to 350 thousand families. At the beginning of September Mihály Varga spoke again about this: in four years, the state can give up HUF 770 billion in revenue for the benefit of families. That's interesting. You can cancel. You don't have to do anything with the government. The doubling of the family tax relief for two children leaves HUF 60 billion next year. [[16.20]] This? Would you like me to take it out? Mihály Varga said that this will be introduced next year. See for yourself, the tax law of 2015 doesn't include this tax rate. It can be concluded that this was an election bluff, and this 350,000 Hungarian families were deceived. Tell Gabriella Selmeczi that she should have said this in her speech, not that in 2016 we will want to introduce it, or how you want to do it, and that they will come to an end in 2019. Until then, these families will wear their chins out. It can be said: Hungarian families were cut by HUF 60 billion, 350 thousand Hungarian families. I have to go out here because it has been brought up several times, and I am very annoyed by this; I am glad that Congressman János Pócs has come back, and I am very annoyed by the constant insulting of 42 percent today, that 42 percent family, from the benches of Jobbik and the benches of Fidesz, because for me they are also families raising children in partnership. Dear Secretary of State, Today, 42 percent of the children born come from out of marriage, a partnership, a family. And I would point out that marriage is not a matter of religion, it is not a matter of marriage, it is a matter of love, of emotion. I'm sorry, today 63 percent of all marriages end in divorce. Then something must be wrong. Stop constantly looking down on this 42 percent, who is having children in Hungary today in partnership. And I'd like to give you one more piece of data, which is very important, that today, women with childbearing potential are 7-8, but there's an estimate that 10 percent of them are already abroad. It would be better for the government to try to help these young people who have migrated abroad to return home as soon as possible. I would like to send a message to Congressman János Pócs, but we should have gotten used to it by now. One, I'm a new congressman against the Fidesz...? I have mentioned on several occasions that the Alliance of Young Democrats is becoming a little ridiculous, because when I look at you, it's becoming so outdated. And the other, the distinguishing statement from the bench again, as you performed this 5,000 forints in response to Lajos Korózs, that women are getting married for 5,000 forints. Honourable Congressman, Men get married, not just women get married, but men get married. Quit being so distinctive, because we're a little tired of it. The other, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai, you'd better come back. [[András Tállai: I didn't go out there.]] I'd like to do a few things for you because the soap came up here. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Not yours, Bandi!]] the shampoo, the detergent Honourable Congressman, You said that by introducing the product fee, we are alarming people, and here we are talking about 1 HUF and 30-40 HUF. Honourable Congressman, I've put in at least ten types of cosmetics, toiletries. But I could have brought at least thirty, and basic cosmetics, not luxury items, and if only every one of them would cost 30-40 forints, add it, honourable Member, and what Lajos Korózs said is this almost 10,000 forints, the increase in these product fees. It doesn't include anything that's gonna burden families every month. And I would like to draw your attention to one more small moment, Congressman. I raise three kids and they go to school. You know, Congressman, we don't just buy these products at home anymore, soap, detergent, toilet paper, hand towels, disinfectant, and sometimes we take them home from kindergarten to wash their beds, we bring them to the nursery, to school, to kindergarten, to the dorm. [[András Tállai's name.]] Don't laugh, Mr. Secretary, and if we go to the hospital, we'll take you there. And don't laugh because this item is a very large item in a... [[András Tállai: The product fee is 11 HUF per kilo.]] Honourable Congressman, You told me to say the shampoo would cost 30-40 forints. I put these products here because there's only a part of them that we use every month. If the price of all products is 30-40 HUF...? and no one knows, not even an economic expert can predict that this HUF 1 will be HUF 1 or HUF 10, the HUF 30 will be HUF 30 or HUF 50, my dear Secretary of State. And I want to tell you something else. You said to the cafeteria that if they're going to transfer it to the families, we'll get back to it next year. I hope, Mr. Secretary, you will submit your resignation. Hopefully, in a year's time, you'll put your resignation on the table here, because you'll be burdened with it. And I'd like to say one more interesting thing to you. [[András Tállai: What? The employee? Or what?]] Will you listen to me? Will you listen to me, Mr. Secretary? [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-10-28-138	Secretary of State, please, a little...
u2014-10-28-139	You have to pay great attention to the future generation, because you don't just think of us as idiots, but also of the future generation. And I want to tell you something. I have a 10-year-old son, and they know what Internet taxes mean. You know, even ten-year-olds pray for the names of Viktor Orbán and Mihály Varga? Only in a negative way. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: The Tállai's, too.]] And believe me, they may be able to fool us, but they're not. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-28-140	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that there are eight pre-notified MSZP Members, and there will be a two-minute circle after each. After that, four right-wing Members and at the end a Fidesz Member. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik. [[For signal:]] He's not here. Then I'll give it to Congressman Ikotity, LMP, in two minutes. [[Noise, noise in the ranks of the MSZP. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Members of the MSZP, please pay attention to the speaker.
u2014-10-28-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I'm looking for Mr. Tallai... [[András Németh Szilárd István Tállai is seated. ? Peter Cseresnyés: There he is!]] ? He's here. I have one question, a simple arithmetic question. Several times, it has been said that those who have to pay taxes to service providers are talking about Internet taxation, and that this has to be financed from profits. I did a simple calculation. The simplest package you can use is 4600 forints. If I take the tax off of this, the service provider will have virtually 3625 HUF left. If I calculate this, you can download 24 gigabytes with 150 forints of started gigabytes. How is it possible to make a profit out of this? After all, this is not a profit, but this is what these companies lose if they pay HUF 5 000 tax on the HUF 4600 subscription. That's completely absurd. I'd like an answer to that. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-28-142	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-10-28-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I finished at the brandy to see what other problems this tax increase is going to cause. On the one hand, the proportion of the nooks and their role in the pálinka will increase significantly, and it is no longer negligible, so let's face it, but after that I think that there will be a lot more people interested in producing the pálinka in this way for their own use. This regulation will also give priority to poor quality in the sense that many who have entered into it have bought their own cooking, and in the meantime they have realised that they cannot produce the same quality at home as they could in a payroll with a professional expert, so they are used to paying. Now, these people are guaranteed to be reunited with their own attempts, are they often going to try to make their own brandy by using wooded tools at home? Like I said? will lead to a significant deterioration in quality. And let's not talk about security factors, because you can imagine how many mistakes we all know can be made in a process like this, which could lead to serious, life-threatening situations. By the way, the five-year maintenance obligation already mentioned, as regards EU funds, will cause such serious problems? Like I said before? We believe that about a third of the farmers will go bankrupt. [[16.30]] At least 200 to 300 families will be affected by this is the only amendment to the tax laws. In their name, too, we demand that you think about it. It is simply not possible to start a business in this country with faith in the future; it is not possible to take seriously the words of the government in this country, if they rewrite the tax rules so radically every year, it is impossible to calculate the future of a family. In this way, I am not surprised that the entrepreneurship is at a low point. So please withdraw this immediately and consider it. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-144	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman János Pócs. Fidesz.
u2014-10-28-145	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of Mr Lajos Korózs and Mrs Bangón, dear Mrs Ildikó, spoke to me, although I do not know if she is here as a household or as a Member of Parliament, that she has packed laundry products from toilet paper here on the table. But if you've reached out to me, please allow me to make a few statements. Dear Congressman Lajos Korózs! How proud you are of your communist past and your past in MSZMP is your business. Although I would like to indicate that the MSZP is already in ashes. [[Lajos Korózs: You were a party member. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman! I wasn't even around MSZP and MSZMP, I'd be very ashamed if I'd ever been there. I would like to tell you about insults to my person and my business, since 98 your party, your predecessor, Dr. Imre Szekeres always came with this. I've won every election since 98, and people have been wiser than the alarms you've done and do all the time. Dear Congressmen, It is quite sad that you have fallen to such an unworthy level just because you are trying to protect the HUF 70 billion telecommunications service providers at this level. Undeserved! You're not worthy of what you're doing. And, dear Congressman Lajos Korózs, allow me to call on you from this place: you have no right to divide women into normal and not normal. In his previous speech, he said that a woman who marries for 5 thousand forints was not normal. Women don't get married for 5,000 forints, dear congressman. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Out of Love. ? Further intervention from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] And there's no one to support the marriage. And don't forget, when you're instigated against marriage, you're instigated against family unity. And they have no right to divide women into normals and non-normals. Shame on you, Congressman. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-146	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Mr László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-10-28-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Well, I'm glad my wife didn't hear this, what she's trying to explain here, my Fidesz fellow Member, is that we're here to start a fight against marriage. Of course, that's not true. That's all you understand. But is the problem? Maybe I'll start too high? In 1787 he visited the coast of Dnieper II. Tsarina Katalin, and she asked her patron Patyomkin to show us what she had arranged. Now, he showed us exactly the kind of villages they show people in this law and every law and debate they make us see. It's the same with your activities. For the sake of the weaker, these villages, of course, do not exist, just as there is no such world as you represent. It's simply a lie. Let's see how much damage you do in higher education and what this tax system is doing. At first sight, the historical metaphor I said was excellent in higher education. The Tao scheme is extended to higher education, which in principle means that resources are being allocated to higher education. However, if we take a closer look, what do we see? What we see is that so far, it has been possible to give this support to companies for sport and culture, and now this money is divided into three parts. Obviously, he's just a fidesz mathematician who shows that dividing something three ways in each movement leads to a greater source than before. But the reality is that sport and culture will certainly have less money. Make no mistake. We are not asking for the construction of the 20th unnecessary stadium, we are asking for the cancelled theatre performances, the closed theatres that will be held as a result. But look at the other part. It is also a Fidesz practice, of course, to divert further support from higher education through this Tao support, based on the allegedly higher education support of companies. We know these tricks. We know all those tricks about how you can pump money into your favorite universities while you're taking money from other people. We think it's another one of those tricks. While nothing is happening with vocational education and training, there is nothing happening with the availability of funding for higher education education and, in general, the kind of financial support for the industrial sector that should go into vocational training. So we are very happy that you are so kind to higher education, but this pleasure would be about as happy as if we were getting into our apartment by breaking in and robbing this apartment, and then getting the government's new flyer, in which we could see that the strap lock had become cheaper. Well, we're not going to have that kind of pleasure. Few areas have suffered as much damage since 2010 as higher education. Interestingly, you guys keep talking in opposition about how big your friends are to colleges and universities, and now you're not talking about it. There have never been so few state-funded students in Hungarian higher education as there are now. There has never been a higher education education rate as significant as it is now. Hungarian students have never paid an average tuition as much as they do now. These are facts. You can see these problems on the numbers. Never have so many students fled abroad and listen to lessons at other foreign universities as they do now. Do you know why that is? Because it is much cheaper to go to university in Vienna today than it is in Budapest. [[Novák Előd: Because Gyurcsány told me to leave.]] My fellow Member, Mr President, should act as opposition and not work under the government, but cooperate with the opposition. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Do what you have to do. [[Forebod Novak: Should I stand behind Gyurcsány?]] No, thank you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So the numbers show problems. But they closed the courses, dismissed the teachers who taught the most well, and dismissed teachers that, for example, ended the courses at the ELTE Faculty of Physics. While street protests demanded that Minister Zoltán Balog create fair higher education, the promises remained, but there is no more money, no less tuition fees, no more students in Hungarian higher education. The situation in technical training, for example, is extremely disastrous, where no action has been taken. Nor do we see anything in this tax law that would affect the direction in which companies, whether in technical training or in real education, would be moved in this direction to support these trainings. Of course, if we look at what is happening to education in this law, which is before us, it is clear that nothing good is happening, nothing good is happening, there is no means by the government to increase the relationship between institutions and jobs, which would allow as few students as possible to pay tuition fees in Hungary. So this Tao support is nothing more than an embarrassing confession. The government also slides when it talks about the fact that the Internet tax, the Internet face, will not impose on people. I can only work with the materials you have at your disposal. Based on the analysis of the Hungarian National Bank, both the bank transaction tax and the two-forint telephone tax were included in the burden of families. That's not what the Socialist Party says, it's what the Hungarian National Bank says. You know, the president of this is the gentleman named György Matolcsy, who you elected to lead this organization. The bank transaction tax was entirely charged to the Hungarian people by the banks, including the OTP, which you mysteriously want to save from the Hungarian people's money. They're talking about anti-banking fights, and the reality is that they're saving the OTP, we don't know why we need this rescue; and the reality is that in the end, as far as foreign exchange creditors are concerned, it turns out that you're on the side of the banks. The average person wonders if it's all talk, but in the background, you're collaborating with the banks, collaborating with the service providers. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] [[16.40]] The analysis of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank states that in all cases where the service providers have been taxed, they have been passed on to the population. The analysis of the Hungarian National Bank states this. Someone is not telling the truth here, or you or the Hungarian National Bank's analysis, but there is something certain between them. You know, in the Middle Ages and ancient times, there was an institution called a tax pass. The tax lease meant that when the emperor needed significant resources, he used this resource to sum up from an entrepreneur, and now we would say that the entrepreneur accepted to collect the tax. This resulted in villages being depopulated and a huge tax burden. That's exactly what you do. What they do is they levy taxes, which they say will not be on people's necks, they say they will not be cast out on people, but only on the service providers, only on this, only on that, only on that, but the end is that it lands on people's necks. It lands on people's necks, spiced up with a little VAT, spiced up with a little extra income. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Scandal!]] So when you talk about not passing these taxes on to people, you are not telling the truth, according to the analysis of the Hungarian National Bank. You're doing this consciously, it's a cynical attitude on your part, because you're lying when you're nominated to be responsible. The responsibility is not for the ones you name, it is not for the banks, it is not for the service providers, it is for those who cast out these faces. And these are you. It's a fake 700 forint, it's a fake that's gonna be a ceiling. It's bullshit that families aren't burdened with it. It may be new to you, but in case someone uses a smartphone, there is also an Internet subscription. Interesting news. If we multiply all 700 forints, then for an average family, even if we don't look at VAT, 3 thousand forints a month comes out. More precisely, it would come out, because everyone knows that if you have a little brain, a little sense of reality, then this tax will be nothing but a bad idea, a bad government proposal. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that I am confident that you will consider the words of the people who have been out on the streets and have asked you not to introduce these taxes. They consider politicians who have talked about how families are being destroyed by the tax system you run. They consider not to act as reverse Robin Hood, but to support the poor, not only the rich from sources taken from the poor. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-10-28-148	Thank you very much. I give you the opportunity to make a two-minute comment, Mr András Schiffer LMP leader.
u2014-10-28-149	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is relatively difficult to hold a substantive parliamentary debate if the debate party simply does not bother, Mr Pócs, to understand clearly, in accordance with the rules of the Hungarian language, the arguments of the opponent. It's kind of hard to argue that way. The other thing I would like to ask of you is to behave as a representative of a civil party when you speak of a woman who is not in the Chamber. You're supposed to be a politician of a civil conservative party. He's not acting like one. Dear Parliament, The thing is, I think it's time for the stupidity that the Internet tax belongs to the category of taxes on consumption, and you are politically defending the indefensible, to stop. In today's world, if you look at how many new jobs are created and what type of new jobs are created? not in Hungary, because there are relatively few jobs in the primary labour market? say, in the luckier countries of Europe? We see that the taxation of the Internet is indeed, I like it, I don't like it, the taxation of work, of income. Many people, such as teleworking, are simply an essential work tool. When you announce that taxes on work, income, are being reduced, this statement is simply excluded by taxing data traffic on the Internet. Do not hide that this is imposed on content providers or at all on Internet service providers. We are well aware that this tax can be passed on without any other measure, on the basis of the legislation or draft legislation currently known, to people to whom the Internet is the primary tool of work. You are endangering jobs and, in particular, endangering jobs in small settlements in your constituency, Mr Pócs. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-150	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik.
u2014-10-28-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have yet to respond to one more slippage, because with these new forms of pálinka tax, the municipalities will not be able to benefit either, since let's think that the thousand forints that may have been admitted by the private cookers are such a small sum compared to the way that the broke-up payers will not pay the contributions they have been obliged to pay in part towards the municipalities. I am also obliged to respond to the cover-up by harmonising EU legislation. Yesterday's news is that Romania has announced that they have found a way of cooking free, which is also supposed to stand Brussels' test. I would ask the authorities here, I do not know if anyone can respond from the government side, what the loophole might be, and if Romania has succeeded, then where the government is supposed to treat the Hungarian brandy as a prominent hungaricum, why it has failed, and why we have stumbled on another piece of Brussels, and why this regulation has now had to be covered in this way, but it has to be withdrawn. One last thought about the honey brandy. I don't think that's a good direction, because let's face it, you're usually honeying in low-quality distillates, and that applies to companies and individuals. So I think it's a really bad way to go that this is getting some kind of discount. Even if I understood that honey is a natural and healthy substance, but in this form it will not cause exactly what the legislator has outlined in the explanatory memorandum, so please consider this. In short, I wanted to say these things, and then the food VAT in the normal speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-10-28-152	Thank you, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of MSZP.
u2014-10-28-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is a great opportunity for a government to run the country by two thirds, as it is an opportunity for the country, as it is possible to carry out major reforms with such a large majority, which could indeed serve the benefit of the nation, the interests of the people, but unfortunately we do not see that happening. But as much as there is a possibility in such a majority, it is just as dangerous, because a majority of this magnitude is not forced to discuss any issues with us in substance, just as you are not obliged to discuss them. Since Parliament has been established, we have seen that there is any bill, so many or less people involved in the discussion of legislation, but it is simply outrageous and outrageous that on a matter of this magnitude, which affects almost all members of society in relation to the change in tax laws next year, this is how many people are involved. It's a shame! The lack of debate, social dialogue, the lack of social dialogue, then slowly narrows their thinking, they can't even hear, they can't even hear their own words, and what's worse, they completely believe that you're infallible and that you're doing everything right. But that's not the case. You don't tell me that much. The negotiations, the lack of debate, the arrogant force policy will eventually lead to what they have now experienced and experienced in the introduction of tax laws, and they happen to run out of patience and try to make their voices heard on the street, to represent their own interests, as is the case at the Internet tax protest. From here, too, as a private person and as a representative of the MSZP, I support any peaceful initiative aimed at this, but I deeply reject the violent actions that act towards vandalism. Patience has therefore run out, because people find that the majority of the governor acts primarily in self-interest, giving themselves, friends, mates, extra concessions, and ignoring perhaps one of the most important aspects of politics, the service of the people. Hungarian families are subject to constant restrictions, which are not considered to be services, but not even partnerships. [[16.50]] Today, the larger and poorer majority of the country is constantly experiencing the government's desire to tighten their belts while they see the rich become richer and live even better. No one is to blame for being born poor, but even for being punished, it is totally unacceptable. You keep saying everywhere that you will not take any austerity measures to the detriment of the Hungarian people, to the detriment of the country's future development. That's not true. Nearly 40 new taxes have been introduced or existing burdens have been modified in the previous cycle, and the tax law that has just been submitted is again a serious restriction for Hungarian families. Plus, they're using that cowardly and sneaky method again? Do you think they've done it many times? the use of intermediaries to collect taxes. They did this for banks when they introduced the transaction tax and did so for multinational operators when they introduced the telephone tax. And communication could be different than the bad banks, the bad multinationals, the bad service providers, because they're the ones who skin people and not you. But I'm asking you, how long do you think it's gonna take to play this crappy charade with people? How long do you think people can be so disdainful? Do you really believe that Hungarians do not see through these cowardly, sly, indirect austerity measures? Well, believe me, that's where you're wrong. And then we've got this great Varga package, tax package, I don't know what to call it, the other day. There is an Internet tax, a reduction in cafeteria discounts and many other delicacies. For example, here is the settlement tax as a new tax. Fantasy is the only way to limit the new tax, since the proposed legislation sets relatively few limits on the imposition of municipal tax on the municipalities. Local tax may be levied on anything, provided that it is not prohibited by any other law or that no other law has yet imposed a tax on that tax item, says the proposal. Of course this tax wasn't a coincidence. I think it is no exaggeration to say that during the last four years, during their previous administration, you have split the budget support of the municipalities, and unfortunately, what we have said before is that much more money has been taken from the municipalities in 2013 and 2014 than the tasks that have been nationalised in the establishment of the 2012 municipal law. In addition to the fact that we did not agree previously that the former municipal tasks and institutions would be taken over by the state, we also think that they should be in local communities and municipalities, it was clear that the municipalities had been worse financially. Significantly more money, hundreds of billions of forints, was taken from the municipalities than the budget of the tasks taken over by the state. Although we do not yet see the 2015 budget, I am afraid that this trend will continue, i.e. it will be now either that or less money for the municipalities. So it's not hard to put it together and logically conclude that? I mean, does everybody see it? That's exactly why the government wants to introduce the settlement tax. Because the government cannot and does not want to give more money to the bled-out municipalities, the budget of next year will not have the opportunity to do so, so there will probably be less money for the municipalities, which in many cases is a problem, especially for smaller municipalities, even when it comes to financing mandatory tasks. In fact, the tax on settlements is nothing more than an elegant one, but it is an opportunity for the municipalities to use it and force the municipalities to introduce new taxes, as one of the sources of their operation will be this tax. Only the creativity of mayors and bodies of representatives will limit the variety of municipal taxes in the future if Parliament, in its current form, accepts the amendment of the law on local taxes submitted as part of this tax package. I can see in front of my eyes that there will be a mailbox tax, a fence tax, and a hen tax if the hen doesn't pass an egg a day, and it can still be classified. This may seem funny, but it is not so funny, because this tax has to be paid by someone, and ultimately it will also be paid by Hungarian families. I would therefore like to join in the proposal of my fellow Members to withdraw this bill, to revise it, to work it out together, to bring it back to the House, and not to be an extra burden for the population compared to the previous one. Thank you.
u2014-10-28-154	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabo. There will be a two-minute round, first Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs.
u2014-10-28-155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to pick up where I left off in the last two minutes or, in a sense, I would like to join the solo in front of me, but first I would like to note that, obviously, Mr. Secretary of State Tállai is very uncomfortable with the velvet chair, and that is why he has been wandering the room for over an hour. I understand, poor Secretary of State, that it must be extremely unpleasant for him to hear so much truth from us, and it is indeed difficult to bear that the system he has initiated, which is called a system of financing of tasks, has failed. But you don't have to put up with it, Mr. Secretary. It's okay to cancel, just as you can withdraw the bill before us. This could also be a solution, as opposed to the fact that you are trying to force this through the House at all costs. And by the way, if you think you're right, please take your place and give me substantive arguments, because what you just said to me about this, namely, that the funding system has not failed, I don't see it, it didn't contain anything concrete that you normally miss from opposition representatives. But while we're at it, let's get back to how you campaigned for a second. They campaigned to make more money for the municipalities. On the other hand, we know that there will be austerity, and one of the great losers of austerity will be the municipalities. And the system that you have come up with and forced the municipalities to do so, namely that you have not given money from the central budget, such as the remaining part of the budget that has already been withdrawn, or that the abstract part of the vehicle tax must be replaced in some way by the municipalities, is an extraordinary emergency situation that they are trying to put on the hands of the municipalities, the Members, which I will explain further in my next comment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For two minutes, Mr. János Pócs, Fidesz, has the floor.
u2014-10-28-157	Mr President, I am sorry, but since my fellow Member Schiffer called me to say that when Congresswoman Bango wasn't in, it's not my fault if she had to bring home the household articles. At the same time, I would also like to say in his presence that it is particularly outrageous for the Member, and for a woman, if she rebels against the unity of the families. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to you that the way in which you protect 70 billion of the public sector is becoming as suspicious as when Congressman Józsa used his foaming mouth to protect Paks. Later it turned out he wasn't protecting Paks, he was protecting his own interests, his own interests. My fellow Members, sooner or later you will be suspicious of who you are protecting and why you are protecting. Mr Secretary of State said clearly and firmly that the government has already proven itself, it will protect people just as it has done in the case of foreign exchange lenders if someone breaks one-sided contracts. The government has proven itself, as have you, Congressman Józsa. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-158	Welcome to Parliament. I give the floor to Parliamentary Congressman László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2014-10-28-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Puddle, you didn't listen to your Prime Minister last time. One mistake cannot be corrected by another error, only to be corrected. I would be happy to help you: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély? Is that his name? You are here today as a Member of Parliament. He's here as an elected Member of Parliament. But let us also talk about tax legislation: we have heard everything here today. We've heard that the government debt has been reduced. That's not true! Government debt reached 85 percent of GDP last year and reached a peak, my honourable members of the Government. We also asked Minister Mihály Varga about this at his ministerial hearing, who told us not to worry, that he would be fine by October. What do we read in the paper now, what do we read in the analysis? We read that 1 billion of the 300 billion HUF reserve remained. [[17.00]] From this, a Hungarian mid-town will last until the end of the year. But this remains for the whole country, gentlemen, this remains for the whole country, gentlemen. We've heard a lot about large live animals, bottled spatters, and we've heard a lot about marriage, where we need to sort one thing out. We do not want to break up families, nor do we think that the parties to be married will marry for 5,000 forints; we think that you are trying to feed people the false belief that they will receive 5,000 forints. They won't get any, unless they have income, if they have taxes, and they can write that down, you don't have to pay for it in your cash register. That's what happens when they get married. I don't want to be cynical, which doesn't mean we don't expect to see long lines in front of the registry offices. But of course, we're happy that if you give a forint back to the people, they'll get a proper rubdown on them. These debates are capable of covering up what is really going on. What's really happening is that you're raising four very serious taxes very seriously. Can we talk about marriage, of course, and talk about the past eight years? My apologies, the mandatory past eight years have been completed, Mr Secretary of State has said what happened when the MSZP government reduced its VAT. He also made an interesting parallel between VAT reductions and inflation, but let me correct Mr. Secretary of State for a moment. There's been no decline in inflation, Mr. Secretary. We are talking about core inflation when we talk about raw food prices, we are talking about official prices, and we are also talking about fuel prices. This is what has decreased, Mr Secretary of State, the core inflation, which the fuel price has carried very, very upwards, since the fuel price has been well over 400 forints for a long time, until last week, for some 2.5 years. You also dropped the VAT on raw food in order to lower core inflation, not because half-pigs in retail are losing weight, not for such things we run down to the corner store, and, of course, the reduction in the overhead was a good way for the government to reduce core inflation. This resulted in a very small increase in pensions. On the other hand, if someone went to the store to buy, they felt real inflation, a real decrease in purchasing value, where the pensioners were likely to be very strong, because so far they had barely been able to bring home what cost 10,000 forints, and now they are taking it home easily with one hand. What you're saying here is unprofessional and cynical. There's been no decline in inflation, Mr. Secretary. We are talking about the government of tax reductions, which in 2010 set out that a beer mat would need a tax return. This beer mat is getting bigger and bigger, it's about to be as big as this Chamber. 24 new taxes have been introduced in the first half or first half of the last cycle, now 4-5 new taxes, and 3-4 are rapidly raised. I understand that if the Secretary of State and the Fidesz faction are very happy to talk about the big spatter, its VAT exemption or the VAT on large live animals, which is also very important. I don't want them to think that we don't think about the countryside and we don't think about the livestock farmers, we don't think about the farmers who do this; we think more about those who live on wages and salaries. Today we have also heard from János Harghitai that all income owners cannot be satisfied. Tell me someone who's satisfied. There are very few left by you, Secretary of State, who are satisfied with this present package. But what are you covering up? Firstly, the fact that the tax on investment funds is increased by five times. They are raising taxes and taxing life insurance policies that we all know, and that if you were living in the real world and not in the Patyomkin village mentioned by my fellow Member László Kiss, you would know that these are savings. Savings because you have a better return, easier access, and you're taxing them again. About the Internet tax, all the nonsense that we've been through for the past week... I understand the panic, I understand, but all the nonsense that it's for the cops' wages, this I don't know who's gonna pay...! Sometimes I get the feeling that this proposal wasn't made in the NGM, because they would have read it in advance. But it's not without history, Mr. Secretary, and I'd like to speak to the country again. You've already introduced a utility fee. I'll tell you what the utility fee means in the country. This utility fee in the countryside meant that in small villages where services such as large development centres, mid-towns in Hungary, large cities, broadband services became available, for example. Then you introduced this utility fee, and the smaller service providers, which you have so often whipped up by large multi-enterprises, have already picked up the cables on which the Internet has been delivered, which I believe is the 21st. It doesn't have to be a gentleman's thing in the century. Now, if there's any more of that left, you're gonna have them pick it up with this tax. You say that this will serve the development. What kind of development, gentlemen? The development we've already experienced at the telecommunication tax? Which, ten years ago, we got used to where there's no reception, where services can't be used, and we always get worse services than foreigners? Please, we're still not gonna get them, because these companies are gonna pay you what they're gonna use for development. But they're gonna take it from us, they're gonna take it from people who use it, they're not gonna pay for it out of their own pocket, and you're gonna think badly about it. 40,000 people thought otherwise, they don't believe you. If you went to the street on Sunday afternoon, you could see that tens of thousands of people did not believe that you, of course, would, in power terms, slammed on the table, would, of course, make it possible for each service provider not to pay for this. On the other hand, I have to thank the Secretary of State on behalf of the households, because he summarized and calculated how the 10,000 forints came out before the public television. He's coming out great. The only argument you have is that it's not a good one, and I don't think that's an argument, and I think the viewers saw that it was probably a very weak argument, and they could have expected much more preparation. You're taxing the cafeteria hard. Of course, some people say that the reason why the Internet is in the spotlight is because you are less afraid of those tens of thousands of people than you are of the unions. Thank God, Mr. State Secretary, in his reply before the TV public, in which he said that we should look at how this will work, let us look at the fact that Hungarian companies are developing so much, that they think that they can safely pay 20-25 percent more tax to keep it going for their employees, on the one hand, this assumes a kind of narrow-mindedness; on the other hand, it certainly has not been in a Hungarian SME these days, where they barely manage to pay every single contribution for each employee, where you have achieved a greater part-time employment, it has really been achieved, because everyone is now announced in six hours, it is true that they have to work 12. The increase in the cafeteria tax will simply mean what today's press has already said, that the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, is leaving this market, does not want to support this kind of benefit from now on, and they want to tax it as much as they want to tax wage-like incomes. [[17.10]] They really lost the pálinka face, there's nothing to talk about. Well, Secretary of State, two months ago, you were judging applications from European Union funds, where you provided for a business plan, you imposed an employment obligation, not until next January, but for five years. These applications have been won, the support section has been paid very hard, and they are building up, and now, after all, these business plans are quickly sidelined with a product fee of HUF 1600 per litre. What were you thinking? What were you thinking? I'm talking about pay-as-you-goers. It's not just people who want to make their own brandy. In the end, I would like to say that this has a message. You have a message that shows that you want to take what's left of the little man, that you really want to build a new society, where your minions can have everything, that you have to pay a little bit more than before, but that doesn't matter to them. But if you've got less, you've got to have nothing now. Nothing and don't trust the Hungarian state. To the very end, I have even heard that the collection of taxes is our shared responsibility. Well, the morale of the events of the last few years has just rocked it. There is a tax obligation, where we would very much like to take the party to pay the tax, of course, if the NAV had not been operating in autopilot mode for two weeks, since its two leaders had already left abroad, obviously not because of the scandal, but must go on holiday in mid-October, of course because of school holidays; one thing is certain, this certainly did not feed faith in one of our largest and most basic institutions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-28-160	I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer for a two-minute comment.
u2014-10-28-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The question is terribly simple. You have repeatedly said here that we can know the government, that you will protect the people. I think a lot of people in this country are afraid of that. But come up with the bullshit, Mr. Secretary, and tell me specifically, specifically, how the service providers will not pass on the Internet tax to the people. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] But I am concerned for now, my happy fellow Member, press the button, ask for a word, and answer my question: if he knows, the fact is that this is not just about individuals. What will happen to small businesses, for which large data traffic is a prerequisite, and indeed this Internet tax will be passed on to them under the current rules? You have claimed that you want to develop the SME sector. Once again, we are faced with a tax that will be paid laughingly by large multi-company companies, but this may be a serious burden for small businesses, where appropriate. Give me a clear, tailor-made answer to that, beyond the passwords that the Habony works have produced for you. How will service providers not transfer this to people and small and medium-sized enterprises? In addition to the fact that, from a budgetary point of view, this tax does not make any sense in one given world. And forget that this is a tax on consumption. In today's world, the 21st. In the first century, data traffic is a work tool, an integral part of the work, so you are introducing a tax on labour, and you are increasing such tax. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-162	On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2014-10-28-163	Mr President, Dear House, I am glad that the Secretary of State is in the room, although János Pócs is no longer. They said that the government has already proven itself, that the government will protect Hungarian citizens, as in the case of passing on special taxes. I believe that KSH is financed by the Hungarian State, the government has decided that the budget line supports the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. So I think that your data is at least relevant, and you take them into account, because they also refer to it. Now, in 2013, the price of financial services increased by 36 percent, this year a further 14 percent increase occurred in parallel with the introduction and revving of the transaction fee. Thus, over a year and a half the costs of bank users increased by 55 percent due to the levy. Based on the detection of the Hungarian National Bank and the study of one of its analysts, the 11 largest Hungarian banks passed on the transaction fee in full, or passed on more than the total amount to their customers. There are three priority areas in the analysis which you refer to here in Parliament. As indicated in cash withdrawals, credit transfers and credit card payments were transferred more than the amount of the transaction fee imposed would have been justified, even though it should not have been burdened on people anymore. So at this point, I ask the Secretary of State not to press a button at the end of TV time, try to give meaningful answers with a slightly smaller breast. We ask a very simple question: how will this already proven government prevent these burdens from being paid by the Hungarian people? There has not yet been a word about this, and I hope that the lack of skills does not justify this or the centrally issued mantra. Here, press the button, explain yourself, step into this argument with a man, now. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-164	I give the floor to Member István Tukacs in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-28-165	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor, but I would not take advantage of the 15-minute time frame, because my fellow factions, who are coming after me, are accidentally still having a heart attack, so I will try to sum up briefly what I have to say about three things. One of them says that something must have snapped in the ranks of the governing parties because they hit the wall and the wall gave me a big slap. When Mihály Varga told me yesterday that we were ready to negotiate, and that we are accepting all the proposals here, I have to think back to the past years: never such a sentence has been said by the governing parties. So something happened. What happened? What happened was, for the first time, people who don't like what they're doing go out on the street and say that, and there's a lot of people. Therefore, I believe that we should not only treat this situation verbally, that we are willing to agree and look forward to the proposals, but that we are actually going to do this. It's also an Internet tax thing. It is not agreed that we have already consulted ourselves: 700! Second subject: there has been little mention of public health tax in today's debate. When the proposal also proposes grating the public health tax, let us make a point: this did not work. It failed to meet its original goals, manufacturers use different techniques to avoid paying taxes, no one became healthier, so the thing is not good. And I wouldn't even talk about those horse-zungs that we were trying to pay off the health tax to raise health pay, and so on. So, if there really is such a program, then we would not have to use the ideas of tax collection found in the blind to say that this is it, but we really have to go through with it in order to really serve public health. So there wouldn't be any products in the stores that I wouldn't continue. So, my fellow members of the Government, there are not many left, but it should be considered that this should not be done then and not try to advertise something and then treat it as tax collection, because it is relatively easy to obtain, although little money. The third such item is: the pro-government circle is very far from reality or far away when it says something and does something else. And now, again, I'm referring to public health. Alcoholism is a popular disease in Hungary. And your relationship with alcohol is so... because, uh, we've heard Secretary of State here that you've been very specific about the properties of a variety of such alcoholic beverages? I hope you have a special interest in this type of product? It should be decided whether or not to treat it as a public health issue. And you're not gonna play with stuff like that, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it, is it? Or are they using a different designation? That's why it doesn't pay taxes. [[17.20]] Cheap wine, yes, that's a very good thing, let them buy it, let them be silly; expensive liquor, but there in the middle category you could still fish for money. Secretary of State, we should decide whether we do or not. Do we want to change anything, say, from a health point of view, about this situation or not? Do we want quality or do we want something else? But it's kind of a mix-up of things and? How do I put this? bringing up a variety of alcoholic beverages idealessly, this is not good for anything in the world. There's one last case I want to talk to you about. I mentioned the name of Mihály Varga in my comment. Mr. Pudgy isn't here. Please, Mr. Secretary, you will interpret what I have to say to him. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: He doesn't listen either!]] I respect the Minister, by the way. But in terms of numbers, you can't call it an accurate source. When you talk about 70 billion of service providers, look at the balance sheet totals and the taxed results. Take the trouble, for God's sake! Don't throw words at your bosses. There's no such thing as 70. It's orbiting the Internet, which is still being used by people, and so am I. Take a look and then talk about what's going on. You guys, I see that you're confabulating again, making stories about this case, how that's going to happen. This story is a little crunchy, because it's gotta be for development, for cops, for cops, for cops, for cops, for cops, or whatever, and otherwise, it's not gonna be that big, and it's gonna be unpassable. At least be on time, for God's sake. But what I'm saying is an illusion. Where, at the end of the tax law debate, there is a secretary of state and two pro-government representatives in the room, it is an illusion to talk about anything that is about seriousness, profession and the clean conduct of affairs. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2014-10-28-166	I now give the floor to Parliamentary Congressman Zsolt Legény, as a proper speaker.
u2014-10-28-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, allow me, although personalism is far from my point of view, to draw the attention of my fellow Member Pócs to the fact that it is extremely irritating if he says that he does not know that he is present in this Chamber as a domestic member or as a representative. We know that you were in the benches of Fidesz or there are Members who may have been chasing ladies with blind comons. Or perhaps they think that domestic violence will be reduced if the ladies leave to give birth. In addition, allow us to reject this assumption by the Member. I would like to ask you to follow my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, because it is not polite to offend him in his female nature, by the way. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP: That's right!]] Members, and not in any other way. I would like to follow the pedantic speed of my fellow Member Tukacs, so I would also like to be brief. But to ease the tension in the room, I would say to my opposition colleague, Zoltán Magyar, that he was very concerned about the brandy. As we know, thanks to the blessed government presentation, honey brandy is a favorable category, and so is the spatter. Therefore, I suggest that you eat a friendly conversation or a wedding party, not Unicum and beer, but honey brandy and a little spritzer, because it will also bring financial relief to the hosts. If I may, let me actually touch on two short topics regarding next year's tax regulation. One has already been mentioned by my fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös, which is a reduction in the VAT of certain large animals from 27% to 5%, which could be traded in half. This is to extend the subject of half-carcases. There's a little problem with it; in the case of sheep and goats, it doesn't know this concept of trade, because that's not how processors pass it on. In the case of cattle, a maximum quartering could be considered. That's the best they can do to help export. To put it bluntly, it's a whiff that they can achieve something. That is why I would suggest to Fidesz and the government that the thing that we have been pushing for or at least trying to achieve in the election programme of the Hungarian Socialist Party is finally supported, from 27 percent to 5 percent of the VAT on basic foods. This would make it easier for Hungarian families to live, it would be a real reduction in their costs, because we know that food is one of the biggest items in the livelihood of families. On the other question, if I may, I would like to give an example. Several small and medium-sized enterprises in Szabolcs, Borsodi, East Hungary also approached us with the problem that fewer people in public employment are now able to hire workers in their own small and medium-sized enterprises. It's very simple. The net value of the minimum wage is roughly HUF 66,000, while in public employment roughly HUF 50,000 can be earned. For this 16,000 forints, people go to work less. We know very well that public employment would be about bringing people back to the world of work, but this will make it less real in this construction, because the workers themselves say that they do not intend to go and work in certain businesses, but they will go to public work, because there they will have to be less and less responsible for less wages. Therefore, if I may, I would like to propose one more thing from the election programme of the Hungarian Socialist Party. This is to make the net minimum wage 100 thousand forints. If next year's tax laws were to bring employment wages here, then, I think, again, they could only give people a great deal of relief. Finally, let us allow the four Members now present among the 133 members of the Fidesz House? Is it because my fellow Member Pudgy is back? Let me thank you for being here with us today. If I may ask my fellow opposition Members, a round of applause will reward at least these four Members. Thank you.
u2014-10-28-168	Thank you. Mr President Novak has spoken on a point of order. Here, I'll give you the floor.
u2014-10-28-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to make a point of order to the KDNP, if they are no longer involved in the debate, they are not present, but they have plenty of time, more than any opposition party. So I would like to propose that if the second most important law of the year has been pushed into a time frame compared to an average item on the agenda, at least when it doesn't really matter, it is an important, conscientious question for us, because the voters, more than a million people who voted for Jobbik, for example, expect...
u2014-10-28-170	Excuse me, Congressman, this is not a point of order.
u2014-10-28-171	Yeah, I'll explain it to you in a minute by the house rules. My point of order is that KDNP will pass on a significant part of its unused timeframe to the opposition parties in accordance with the house rules. At least that's what the Jobbik would want. I ask the representatives of Fidesz, if at least they are present, to make a statement on behalf of KDNP, they often do so without agreement on behalf of KDNP. Please give us time to be able to manifest ourselves in substance and to respond to the lies that are often spoken here by the governing parties. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. ? Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-10-28-172	Thank you. I cannot take this into account as a point of order. So we'll continue on the agenda. [[Defiance.]] comments. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2014-10-28-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. In addition to the words of Congressman Pócs, I can't really leave without saying a word. Congressman, we would like to ask for more respect for women. I really hope that you talk to your three - child - raised wife a little more respect at home. I think if you tell me your stunt at home tonight, you're probably not gonna put what you're gonna get in your pocket. But I wouldn't give you dinner. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He may not be present as a representative either!]] Now, I'd like to move on to product fees and tax laws. You believe that a transparent and simplified system of categorization, which has been created, is a better environmental solution. For you, the environment, as it turns out, is a simple collection of money, a simple collection of money that will once again fall on people, as we have seen in many cases in the past. My dear fellow Members, the pro-government Members don't think they're going to make citizens pay for this, do they? After all, poor entrepreneurs, who have so far been in good faith as distributors, can no longer absorb these taxes that you create with this law or which are extended to products. With these product fee extensions, as many of my fellow Members have already said, they also extend the product fee to detergents, showers, soaps and detergents. These, fellow Members, are the things that are inevitable in everyday life for a family and for a simple person. You know, if you can't afford this, it will have a very, very serious impact on your health. [[17 .30]] In the state of the Hungarian public health and health system, this will extend the waiting lists in specialist care. A lot later, people will get to health institutions. You know, it's just people who are the least likely to pay for these products. I believe, Congressmen and Congressman Tallai, that you have no problem with this 30-40 forint increase. For those who have to make a living from 40 to 50 thousand forints a month, yes, it will be a problem. A lot of people at home told me that it's okay that with 700 forints, they're saying that they're maximizing this tax, which is now being introduced as an Internet tax, but it's a net amount. That'll be over a thousand forints. And, you know, fellow Members, for most people, this thousand forints means very, very much. If the taxes on other products come here, it will be significant for them. What stunned me most was, to be honest, a tax on the taxation of plastic plants. You know, fellow Members, when one of the saddest times of man comes and he has to make the bouquet and the wreath, it's very, very bad. [[András Tállai: effective from 1 January!]] When, in addition, people will feel that these products have been taxed by you, and, you know, small pensioners and small-time earners will buy such wreaths who cannot make wreaths of live flowers. My fellow Members, before the day of the dead, this is a rather morbid move from you. One more thing I'd like to draw your attention to. You expected 60 billion revenue from the product fee in the previous year's budget, 53 billion of which worked. Of these 12 billion forints were spent on the environment. My fellow Members, this is just like 1 percent of the grass: it has disappeared in the huge budget, and it has not been used for what people give it, as people pay it for. If people saw you using the budget money normally and what people are going to do, they'd probably be more inclined to give you their last forints. You don't understand at all what the young people are up against in the street right now. You do not understand at all that young people who grew up in democracy have a net maxed net point of 700 forints more than is acceptable to them. So in half an hour, you'll see the crowd who's moving against you now, and you'll see the crowd who'll do everything they can to get democracy back in this country. I would like to ask Mr Pócs once again to follow Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, to withdraw his words, or to go home and tell his wife what she has told me. I think we'll have the results. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-174	I now give the floor to Congressman István Józsa, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2014-10-28-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on tax laws has been rich in strange twists, and I see that the government side is in a distraught position. So when such low debates are thrown in when people, representatives, women, and family mothers are insulted by their human nature when they come up with such lying old stories that they didn't have any reality even when they brought them up in a debate, it shows that you feel that you are in a beaten position. Let's just say you're right to feel that, because the tens of thousands of protesters, or the 220,000 Internet voters who agreed that your introduction and determination to the Internet should be outrageous, should be a warning, and this whole tax package will strengthen their previous four-year history, which means that you are the government of tax increases. So you're not collecting a lot of taxes in a very intricate, very metaphorical way? The VAT isn't actually collected, is that what the scandal is about? but indirect taxes, so to speak, consumption taxes per sector, and they believe that this is not a burden on people. You are mistakenly aware of this, as said in the comments of my competent fellow Member, with the chairmanship of the well-known leaders of the Hungarian National Bank, it has shown in a professional analysis that these special consumer taxes go into prices nicely and, of course, legally. In order to say something good, before explaining why your Internet tax initiative has failed, I would like to say that it is particularly forward-looking in order to realise VAT revenue, which is included in this proposal in the area of the introduction of the goods traffic control system. The purpose of the introduction of the EKÁER is to monitor the real journey of goods, to require the payment of public burdens on supplies and sales, or to prevent the placing on the market in Hungary of goods which were not previously declared to the tax authority. It follows from all this that, at least in a much larger proportion than now, the VAT avoidance estimated at a thousand billion will, hopefully, significantly reduce VAT avoidance practices through electronic documentation of the actual movement of the tracking of goods. All of this will be operated by the NAV, which will require a legislative task because the technical base of this is now the electronics and technical base of the traffic-related toll collection system, so we still need to think about how the tasks will be shared. Of course, this is also linked to the Internet tax, because it is a question of whether, for example, the state will pay it, so if it shoots into its own feet when it taxes these significant data flows in its own activities and wants to collect them on its own. With a few words on the Internet tax, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen...? essentially to the minutes, because the four Fidesz Members who are present, I am not sure that they can fully pass on the professional arguments I wish to present. So your message is wrong in the first place. So infocommunication is a break-out sector, an opportunity to break out for all countries that are relatively underdeveloped. Hungary's economy, partly due to your activities, is in relative decline, so what you are saying is that reindustrialisation of the country is a backward development in your four years. So the message of this means that you do not want to take advantage of the modern development potential that infocommunication represents. The data-based tax goes against industry trends. Business today is efficient and flexible because companies can exchange data almost free of charge. This is the opportunity for many people to continue their training, their orientation to the world. It is not an economic approach, but it cannot be overlooked that for many people this orientation - because public media is dominated by you? I refer to the 220 000 likes that appeared as a protest against the Internet Tax. According to the Ministry of National Economy, only 133 million gigabytes of annual retail data are reported as revenue of around HUF 20 billion? written by an analyst. But this can be an underestimated number, as according to NMHH, we are only interneting around 36 million gigabytes of traffic per year on mobile phones. [[17.40]] More than half of the population never use it for netting, but those who use it are typically using it for less data-intensive activities, so there is a problem with your calculation. By 2018 Hungary will have a broadband internet announcement in all households - Hungary has already undertaken this to the European Union, and has made this commitment that by 2020 all Hungarian households will have broadband, i.e. high-performance, very fast, so-called 100/100 Internet access. We are far from that, and there is a real danger that such an Internet tax would cross this commitment. Orbán said that our agreement will allow the country to reach this state by 2018, so what we agreed to do by 2020. Well, that goes against that. The tax law, which you have submitted, preserves all the disadvantages of the Hungarian tax system, including the high tax burden and administrative burden, without substantially improving the competitiveness of the tax system. Fidesz has previously promised to create Europe's most competitive tax system, compared to which the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, not least thanks to the tax system, is significantly worse than it was in 2010. The new sectoral special taxes and the Internet tax are another sarcasm that economic operators and Hungarian people have to pay. I ask you to stand down from this, to withdraw this tax law, not to introduce an Internet tax, and to take real action instead of speaking. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-28-176	I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter as the last person to be notified.
u2014-10-28-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dearest? I can count on one hand how many there are - fellow Members, from the benches of Fidesz! I am serious that since I became a Member of Parliament, this has been the most outrageous comment - a lot of what has been done to this law that I have heard in this House. They had a lot of brazen words, and I understand this, what János Pócs put to my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. What István Horváth said is also annoying to me that he demands more respect for the people of the country. I think it's you who can't demand that, because it's you who don't respect people. I would like to draw your attention to what Viktor Orbán asked of the elected mayors: more humility and hard work. It'd be nice to start both of them. Allow me to quote from a study that has been prepared with the support of the government on poverty. From 2010 to 2013, the various poverty indicators for child poverty increased by between 10% and 20%. In each case, the situation of children or families with children is worse than that of others. In all cases, there is a greater deterioration between 2010 and 13 than in the years immediately following the crisis. This is included in this study. You may not have read this study, but I would like to ask if you have seen a poor family in Hungary. Because there are families in Hungary who live in a room of 7-8 square meters in three or four, wash in cold water from a pool, and have neither a bathroom nor a bathroom, and have no electricity. And what are these data? 197 thousand children live in households where there is no electricity, and 170 thousand children have no bathrooms and bathrooms. I suggest that every night when they go home and turn on the lights, you remember that. At a time when it is so natural to wash your hands in warm water, remember the conditions under which children live in Hungary, and in light of that, dare to praise the fact that this is a success story that has been done here in the last four and a half years, because it can exist in statistics at most, they show a success story in statistics. Because, of course, it is also a fact that let's say that Congressman Pócs earns 500 thousand forints, and I earn 100 thousand forints, then the two of us earn 300 thousand forints on average per person. Well, I guess it doesn't cover reality, it's the kind of numbers they keep tricking around with, and that's how they try to mislead people, but people see reality. And don't refer to the fact that there were three elections this year, because, by the way, I would add that, unlike Viktor Orbán's wishes, the two-thirds stop within the borders! That's one of them. The other is that the two-thirds of the national borders, you know very well that they are not two-thirds. So in view of that, you should refer to anything. And by the way, you're obviously here about the tax law? Because I've been trying to explore the environment in which this tax law is going to be implemented, because I think you're going to vote for it anyway, even though I would still appeal to your conscience if there is? However, I would like to highlight the NAV. It's the NAV who collects our tax dollars and pays them into the central budget. This will be the NAV where the tax revenues will flow; the tax revenues that you hope for, which only a fraction of what can happen; the ones you are about to sabotage the Hungarian families will destroy millions of people on a monthly basis. And, yes, it could be a family with exactly 700 forints! It is exactly the 700 forints that will count that your child will not be able to learn from the world, will not receive the right information about the world. I suppose that's the goal, by the way, to keep people out of the loop, or to make it as difficult as possible for them to get information from government, pro-government, censored media. But back to the NAV. As long as the stamp of corruption is on the Hungarian government, until the ban scandal that has been known about since 6 October has been cleared, and no action has been taken to clarify this, how do they expect these tax forints to be properly implemented? How do people expect people to trust that this will be used for the right purposes anyway? So I would also like to draw attention here to the need to immediately clarify the circumstances of the banning scandal, what these corruption cases could be, what the involvement is, and, by the way, Ildikó Vida should be called. I think you can reach him abroad on the phone. In today's world? Although we're talking about telekomados, phone transmitters, everything now, so I believe that this means extraterrestrials, but you could still call him. So by introducing this tax? which was protested by tens of thousands, young people, people whose future would otherwise require access to the Internet, access to information? They're building a wall. They also build a wall on Hungary's borders because they pursue such foreign policy, but they build a wall around social groups. I don't know what they're afraid of anyway. They may already be building a wall around themselves, as it seems that they expose people who stand up for democracy, who dare to express their views, to verbal attacks of all kinds, and who are outraged that they do not address today's Hungarian reality. You clearly don't see any of this. And finally, I would like to say that, of course, here in the context of their usual success strategies, we have heard that public debt has fallen. Otherwise, it is a matter of fact that the public debt has increased, so I do not know who else I would like to believe in today, but one thing is certain: debt is increasing, not only sovereign debt, but Fidesz' debt is also increasing to Hungarians every day when they are lying to them. So finish this and support our amendment proposals, withdraw every detail in this law that contains a tax increase, without exception all of them. It's the least they have to do. Thank you. [[17.50]]
u2014-10-28-178	I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs for the first time in a row of ordinary speakers.
u2014-10-28-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to go back to the subject I've already mentioned. In particular, in addition to local taxes, Fidesz has invented a new tax type and would like to introduce it to further undermine rural Hungary, all citizens. Given that the funding of the municipalities will continue to be very limited by the government, i.e. the public services that the municipalities have to provide, the municipalities will be able to finance it from now on if they impose as much and more taxes as possible. I would like to thank the honourable Secretary of State for wandering around the House for hours, but he has finally taken his place among the Velvet Chairs. Then perhaps, after our many requests, he will now be willing to give us a meaningful answer to our questions. City tax. But what are we talking about? It is quite difficult to interpret this, since we cannot know anything concrete in the bill itself, in the general justification or in the detailed justification. On the one hand, we can learn that there will be such a tax, and on the other, that this will increase the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities. We know very well that we are used to the fact that if the Fidesz government says that Hungary is doing better, then we can be sure that Hungary is doing worse. If you say that the scope of the local authorities will expand, then we can be sure that it will narrow down, for example through austerity measures, because by imposing a new tax on the population, I cannot say that the municipalities will be better or that they may have greater room for manoeuvre. At the same time, it raises serious concerns about the presentation that you have tabled, as I am convinced that it only violates the following, such as the Fundamental Law, the Hungarian law on local governments, the legislative law, and let me quote you from this. Article 4 of the Legislative Act. §2 states the following. If a subject is regulated by law, so, for example, tax is regulated by law, it must be a law, so that it is not a local regulation, but rather a law to settle the fundamental legal institutions and the essential guarantees relating to the achievement of the regulatory objective. Now, these are exactly the essential guarantees that are completely lacking in your presentation. The other is 5. §, which reads:, Should the holder of the authorisation be defined in a delegated act? Let's say this municipality, so far, is okay with the subject and the framework. Now exactly the other thing that is missing is the framework of your presentation, but I could easily quote the Fundamental Law. Far be it from me that I wish to help the legislative work of the government, especially if they want to introduce a new tax, but I would like to say quietly and quietly that the Fundamental Law does not currently allow local governments to impose such a tax on the administration of local public affairs, because at present it is the case that in the specific list? What can a local government do? It is described as deciding on the type and extent of local taxes. But this is not a local tax, as we know, and as stated in the definition, it is another tax, a municipal tax. So I think that this should be settled urgently by the government if it wants at least not to be accused of a fundamental violation of the law. Now, what else isn't in your presentation? I'm telling you. For example, the rate of the tax, the subject of the tax, the object of the tax. Let's say, on the subject of the tax, you say that everything that is not the object of any other public burden can be. There's no tax exemption, and so on. And yes, if we are talking about, say, the rate of tax, then imagine that from one year to the next, if the body of representatives of a given municipality decides to punish a particular population in their own settlement, then they can be completely disabled from one year to the next, because they impose such a tax that it is impossible to pay it. And what is this tax? Here, one of my fellow Members has already raised this issue once, because it is really only fantasy that limits what new types of tax may be imposed by local governments. Let me add one myself. Let's say the object of the tax could have been the property earlier, so for example, the structure that stood there, because, let's say, there was a construction tax in the particular settlement. This doesn't want to be revoked by the municipality, it remains. But now the smoke from the chimney is not the object of the tax, so let's tax it. There will then be smoke taxes in Hungary on the basis of these, as we have been used to since the Middle Ages, and thus the municipalities will be able to make up for their losses due to the regime. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say with respect that not only the system of financing of tasks that you have introduced has failed, but also, yes, the regime seems to fail in connection with this bill. After all, you must introduce this new type of tax in addition to austerity measures because local government companies are insane. Speaking of smoke taxes, we know how many local chimney sweep companies have fallen in over the past few years, only how many have returned them to be sorry, but they cannot provide the public service, because it is simply unfunded to maintain the company, precisely because of the completely unreasonable reduction in the amount of overhead that you may have imposed. But that's okay, you'll be able to replace what's going to fall out. I believe that this cannot be a good solution or not a good solution, but cannot be seen as a solution at all. The solution would be to go back to the stove, say that the system of task financing has failed, the specific norms, which are financed by the government from the central budget, have not been well defined. Let us recalculate on the basis of real costs what individual municipalities really need, and then the municipalities can decide whether additional revenues are needed at all, for example in the form of taxes, whether they want to impose construction taxes, land taxes, and so on. So do they want to use any form of existing local taxes. I would add that these taxes, although Jobbik has already opposed them, and wherever we could do so, sooner or later Jobbik has led them out everywhere in the municipalities it manages, or at least tried to reduce them, so we have already protested against this system, because we believe that there is neither a construction tax nor a land tax nor a tax of this kind, which is usually taxed on real estate, is not justified. After all, it was you who most protested against the IMF's demand for real estate tax to be introduced in Hungary. In practice, they made it compulsory for the municipalities within the system of financing the task to take this out, as they forced the municipalities to do so by maintaining the revenue of interest, i.e. by maintaining the expected own revenue. It's a bad system, it needs to be changed. So once again, going back to the municipal tax: I think that it goes against all the laws that have existed so far, and this cannot be introduced in this way. It is necessary to farm fairly, not only for the settlements, but also for a government, responsiblely, and not with new tax burdens, to skin and rip off the people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-180	I now give the floor to the representative of the Jobbik, Novak Elõk.
u2014-10-28-181	Dear Parliament, Among the criticisms raised in my negotiations with the Hungarian Marketing Association, let me say a few things about the advertising tax proposed by Jobbik in 2010, L. Simon László himself and Fidesz in general, but, as usual, after several years they have only mastered Jobbik's proposal, and the advertising tax that mainly affects multinational companies was finally introduced. Of course, not quite as we suggested, in this connection there were several suggestions made by Jobbik, which I do not wish to present now, because you have shifted this advertising tax to a very different level. [[18.00]] The most painful thing for us, of course, is that the revenue from advertising tax itself is not used to introduce the free basic internet, as we suggested at the beginning of this cycle, for example, at the beginning of summer. You voted against that. In fact, they are now going to go further and tax, especially large families, because they will basically be the most affected by this Internet tax. But while we are at this stage, let us try to improve this advertising tax, which currently has as many interpretations as people read this law. L. Simon László himself, he made a little joke about himself, was actually a cartoon of himself in connection with this proposal. He did not know the law which he had tabled, which had been amended even before its entry into force, and raised quite serious constitutional concerns. However, if this law has already been introduced, it is now also accepted by the organisations concerned which are liable to pay taxes, they now hold that they want to pay taxes, but do not know how and exactly what to do so. After all, the advertising tax in its current form raises a lot of questions. A lot of resolutions and interpretations can be read by the National Tax and Customs Office. It is not good that there are too many interpretations of the legislation. It raises a lot of professional questions that are clearly not answered by the non-marketing and advertising professionals working at the National Tax and Customs Office. So let me give you some examples to support this. The tax authority could not answer the question of the Hungarian Marketing Association, for example, whether the web store that places an advertisement on Facebook or Google is really obliged to pay an advertising tax. The advertising tax law imposes advertising taxes on advertisements in the Hungarian language and wishes to establish Hungarian linguistics from the order. So the order as an accounting document can and will be requested in the review of the advertising tax. Now, it also follows that if the advertisement contains only English words, it does not fall within the scope of the advertising tax. But what about banner ads that contain only images? So, say, on a porn site, it's free of advertising tax? Because that's what the law says right now. In this regard, the expert informed me that advertising without Hungarian text is not subject to advertising tax. True, such ads have a cultural tax. But the client doesn't have to pay for that. It is also interesting, according to the text of the law, that the totem pole is an outdoor advertising medium. This is a way of displaying the name, designation and activity of the undertaking. But what if the advertising medium doesn't have a text in Hungarian, just a picture and a logo? Then there is a great deal of uncertainty about self-reclamation, for example, by advertising one media company's publication or programme in another's product. In these cases, the rule is that your ad is taxed in excess of an annual cost of HUF 500 million, under which there is no obligation to declare or register. It is not clear, for example, that after Google and Facebook do not issue a statement, they are subject to the advertising tax; the agency that is related to Facebook or the advertiser itself. So there are such fundamental and countless advertisements, whether by the Hungarian Marketing Association, but by the entire communication industry. So there's some confusion, and again, because a proposal has been submitted unprepared. In fact, a year and a half ago, when the proposal was published on the government's website, so to speak, it turned out that it was actually intended to be used only to repel commercial televisions, of course, just to make them more government-friendly. They used it for extortion and eventually withdrew their own proposal, didn't they? When, in the absence of a better one, I myself submitted the previous proposal published by the government, you voted against it. So it could not have been achieved in a manner appropriate to the social debate, but then, suddenly, L. Simon László came up with a slightly different proposal, so to speak, as his own motion, but we know that the government was actually behind it. But he avoided the necessary preliminary discussions, bypassed the professional organizations, and here's what came of it: the fact that the National Tax and Customs Office does not know exactly how and what the tax should be levied. Well, that's no way to collect taxes. Therefore, I regret that there was no opportunity for a substantive debate, especially on the introduction of social debate and professional debate on advertising tax, but rather, like all sensitive things, they tend to degrade to night debates, and that is what we have to settle for. It is also very painful for us that the revenue from the advertising tax is not used to introduce the basic free internet, even though L. Simon László himself, when I suggested this, admitted that, yes, Hungary will face a very serious competitive disadvantage if we do not reduce Internet charges in Hungary. That's what he said then. He didn't know yet, maybe he didn't think that even this year the government would continue to increase Internet charges. After all, I already argued to László L. Simon, citing from the NMHH report recently discussed by the Parliament, that the gross median of Internet access in Hungary is more than twice the median price of Western Member States. Here, it is possible to compare different types of Internet services, but in general, there is more than double the fee for internet use in Hungary. Of course, if we add the net average wage in Denmark, we can see that the internet in Hungary is 2200 percent more expensive if we compare it to average wages than in Denmark. Two thousand, two hundred percent! So we're not talking about 20 or 30 percent surplus, we're talking about 2,200 percent more expensive than, say, Denmark. This is obviously an extreme, excavated example, the average is to double it. Well, it is enough, a 100 percent surplus, that there is such a competitive disadvantage in Hungary. And L. Simon László himself acknowledged this when I argued why Internet charges should be reduced on the one hand and a basic free internet on the other, so that we can introduce those who have not yet made friends with it into the world of the Internet. Let me quote Gábor Kubatov, since he didn't speak here in this cycle, during the last four years, he didn't speak here at the National Assembly. His most famous leaked speech, he said in the famous Cubatov recording, in a closed circle, that Viktor Orbán was not very good at computer science. We've made a lot of progress now because, for example, you can receive and send text messages, and you know the difference between fax and e-mail. You know, with that, you could say he was bragging. But what he calls progress, let me not call it progress. Let me not accept that Viktor Orbán is stuck at the level of knowing the difference between fax and e-mail. If you do not understand the world of the Internet so much, you do not want to punish Internet users; if you do not know not only the everyday life of Hungarian youths, because we can see how you say, how cynically, when you say, in relation to young people who leave abroad, they are adventurous, right? Where we know it's not like that, they want to get along at home. But, for example, in such a tax system, which is set before us by this law, they will not be able to continue to thrive at home. And if Viktor Orbán doesn't understand the world of the Internet, then it is a very big mistake to tax it, especially if it hits large families in the first place. He doesn't, let's say, maximize the amount per family or even per subscriber, but per subscription. In this sense, if a family head subscribes to a 1 or 2 gigabyte mobile Internet for each of his children, then he can easily reach the amount of more than a thousand forints in a family with three children. What the family pays by itself only after mobile internet, so here we are talking about 700 forints, and what it pays for basic wired internet service, of course, is quite misleading. That is why I recommend Zsolt Nyitrai's words to you in 2008, here he argued very long and very carefully, and I am just briefly quoting one of his typical sentences when the MSZP wanted to introduce this Internet tax in essence. Then Zsolt Nyitrai said: "The Internet is a genre of freedom. These are not the prevailing trends in the world to tax the Internet, but rather to make it more free, more accessible to all our countrymen. This is what Zsolt Nyitrai, a specialist politician at Fidesz, said, but it's interesting that what they say so well in opposition is the opposite of what they do in government. That is why I recommend considering at least the introduction of the free internet, which means the basic internet, because teleworking, distance learning, telemedicine are expected to improve, which would obviously lead to less environmental burdens if people did not sit in their cars to go to work or to deal with matters. So we could also protect Hungary from environmental pressures. For example, the capital should not think of a congestion charge, but of ways to prevent such problems. There would also be a very serious economic recovery if we introduced many, many more, into the world of the Internet. The electronic administration system could also be developed. But only if we introduce more people into the world of the Internet, not if we have a prime minister who may not even have a smartphone in his hand, and who may not be able to open a website on the Internet. In fact, perhaps he, Zsolt Shemjén, considers it to be a devil's idea, as I already had this debate with him on Monday. [[18.10]] Thus, the extremely high level of Internet usage charges in Hungary, which is, say, roughly twice the size of the old Western Member States, and these are official statistics, statistics from the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which show that Hungary is at a very competitive disadvantage, and if this Internet tax is actually introduced, which will be a major hit on businesses, so that not only large family members will be the main victims of the Internet tax, but also businesses, as L. Simon László predicted here, when I also argued that free internet would be introduced at all, Hungary will face a very serious competitive disadvantage in relation to the surrounding countries. Therefore, I would ask you to taste some of the criticisms that you have just made about the advertising tax, either re-ordering the entire advertising tax, or along the way of the idea that Jobbik has formulated, because we would have put this in a slightly different place, and I would also suggest that you consider introducing the free basic internet itself, because sooner or later, what Jobbik raises will come to pass, it's just a question of whether you should wait for Jobbik to come to the Government. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-10-28-182	I now give the floor to the MP, István Happy, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2014-10-28-183	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This debate took place in the same way as the debate on the tax law in general over the last 24 years: the government parties defended the government's tax law and the opposition attacked it. I think we've all done our jobs, and we're gonna get to the bottom of this. There's only one thing that's different about this thing. Although the MSZPs kept on talking about democracy, there was no dictatorship, interestingly, they could speak in a double time frame compared to their number in the elections. I'm sorry, but I don't think that happens often in democracies. So it seems that the two-thirds majority, which has adopted the new house rule together with you, had the right to do so when it gave the factions the opportunity to ask for the opportunity to speak twice, to use their time double. So I have to say, regardless, all the other things went exactly as they used to. Some people were talking about NAV problems because they were incriminated abroad. Some people were talking about NAV problems, because they're breaking up businesses and they're trying to collect taxes. Sooner or later, it will be decided which side of the opposition is the right thing to do, if the NAV does its job, or if they say otherwise that it is not doing its job. Then there were those who had a problem that they said they couldn't buy sheep and goat in the country. I'd like to report that you may come to the countryside, even in my constituency, and you can buy such meat. [[Intercom from the benches of the MSZP.]] Then there was one who feared the inhabitants for the telecommunications tax, and there was another gentleman, Lajos Korózs, who feared for the small service providers. It should also be decided who you think is in danger now, residents or small service providers. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: He just highlighted it!]] because if small providers, then they will pay telecommunications tax, as we say, if the residents, then they can't be in danger of small service providers, because they won't pay. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Both of them.]] I must be honest with you that I learned from my father that we should always talk about the facts, and since many of us here in today's debate have claimed that the telecom tax has been passed on, they will continue to pass it on, it is defenseless, so I thought that we should pour clean water into the glass. I am a member of a telephone community that is not obviously typical in Hungary, but there are several of them. This community has over 800 members, so I'm not gonna talk about a man's account, I'm gonna talk about an account for a community of 800 people. This community also had a telephone bill in 2011 and has a telephone bill in 2014. As I understand it, there is a telecommunications tax from January 1, 2012, which you believe has been passed on by companies. Let's look at the facts. This community paid a basic fee of HUF 2800 in 2011. In 2014 he still pays a basic fee of HUF 2800. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: What about the costs?]] He paid a reduced district fee of 300 HUF in 2011 and, well, he also paid 300 HUF in 2014. The group paid 200 HUF for the group in 2011. By 2014 it went up to 300 HUF, so there is already a 100 HUF increase here. In 2011, there was no post-inflationary charge, but as we know, now there is a post-inflationary charge. This is 41 forints per hour for conversations. The Internet then cost 384 forints, it is true that 20 megabytes. Today, the same group has 100 megabytes of internet and costs 792 HUF. If we multiply this, the Internet may have become cheaper than it was, since it costs five times less. SMS costs as much as 20 forints in 2011, to be sent to any network. The minutes? And we can be shocked here, because you think they passed on the fees. Please, in 2011 did you speak for 24 HUF a minute in this community? I'm telling you again, are we talking 800 people? , 2014 for 12 HUF. Either way, that's half of it. If you look at the fact that if you make a phone call for an hour, it's not that much a month, I think, so if you call for an hour, you paid 1440 forints in 2011. On the other hand, if the same person speaks an hour, 60 minutes in 2014, he will pay 720 HUF. If we add all the prizes, we add all the prizes in 2014 and take off the monthly fee discounts, which were also 1400 HUF in 2011 and 14 HUF, then the telephone bill will come out to HUF 3553, while if you look at 2011 it will be HUF 3724. However I look at it, in 2011 the telephone bill cost 171 HUF more than in 2014. I would like to ask you where the telecommunications tax is, which you believe has been passed on since 2012. I am sure that, of course, you can give an example where it may be proven that there has been a package of charges, but do not claim that the service providers have passed on the telecommunications tax at the same time and will pass on the new telecommunications tax that may be introduced because it has not been passed on. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] Not in every case, because at least 800 telephone subscribers in Hungary did not do so. And I'm sure it's not just 800 subscribers, it's a lot more than that, I'm a member of this 800 subscribers, so I can tell you that. [[Good, but this is the Fidesz fleet.]] This is not the Fidesz fleet, I'm telling you, this is not the Fidesz fleet by any chance, so they're very mistaken, this is the fleet of the municipality of the village of Képpo, and it could be the fleet of anyone else. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The fleet of the Fidesz municipality!]] I would, of course, like to say for the record and for your sake that I would be very happy to present the accounts, if you would like to see them, you can see them. Of course, we take out the things that violate the rights of personality that apply to the name and others, but I would be happy to make all the other materials available to my fellow Members. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] We'll remove the service provider, of course, but we'd be very happy to introduce you. So I'm asking you not to generalize, not to claim anything that isn't true. In all cases, the telecommunications tax could not be passed on to the residents of all operators, because the call became cheaper. I've just proved with numbers that an hour of phone calls in this community has been cheaper by 171 forints. I think that this is exactly how it will be if the telecommunications tax is introduced. Whether this is an introduction or not, I think it's still a question of the future. We're voting on tax laws in mid-November, and I think we're gonna have a lot to talk about. There's gonna be a lot of negotiations. [[18.20]] I would urge everyone to rest, and if they had an opinion, they would rather discuss it during negotiations and not on the street, because it is easy on the Internet and on other means of communication to dumb up youth and tell them to go, because you will have so much higher telephone charges. But as I said here, that's not true, because it doesn't rise, just as it hasn't risen. So you can tell young people to run to the streets because they won't be able to access the Internet, but that's not true, because they're going to be able to access the Internet, and they can't pass on the costs to the service providers because they haven't been able to. If they didn't know in two years, three years, they still don't know. This is evidence of what Secretary András Tállai said that we have already protected the service providers from this tax, and we will still be able to protect them. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-28-184	I am now giving the floor to Mr János Pócs in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-28-185	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If Congresswoman Bangón felt that it was so offensive to her that she wanted to be a representative or a household in the window of laundry detergents, then, of course, as a woman, I apologize. At the same time, I think, Mr President, that it is unworthy of this House, if a Member can only place sufficient emphasis on what he has to say, if he surrounds himself with detergent, toothpaste, toilet paper, food oil and the rest. I also regret the fact that the MSZP fraction and the Congresswoman are not protesting Mr Korózs, who has divided women into normals and non-normals. And I am particularly sorry if, in Parliament, there is a congresswoman who rebels against family and marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, In this debate, I would like to return to the basic debate. My fellow Members have said that 700 forints will destroy the families. I don't know how many times Mr Secretary of State has to say it here today to understand Members, as in the case of foreign exchange creditors, if someone has acted improperly, so will those providers. It's not for the resident. It's for the service provider. As opposed to 700 forints, it would be good for colleagues to remember that, for example, the municipal debt transfer, the help of foreign exchange lenders, helped the population thousands of billion forints. The reduction was not 700 forints, but 150-170 thousand forints per family, and people see the difference between the two. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-186	I now give the floor to Mr President Novak in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-28-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Szatmáry made a very serious statement here today, with his hat off to him, I hope that he will not back down from this statement, because after Dániel Z. Karpát explained in the speech of our economic politician that Jobbik dared to say it in his program, we dared to state that Hungary's biggest problem? With a lot of other big problems? population loss, the catastrophic demographic situation. As a representative, Kristóf Szatmáry may have expressed only his own opinion, but I agree with that. I am very pleased about this because I have asked the Minister in this term whether he agrees with this, that is what my written question was about, but unfortunately I have not received a clear answer to this question. That is why we do not know if the government will accept this. There's plenty to do. The Population Round Table has made a number of proposals that are still to be implemented. Indeed, some serious steps have also been taken, and we were very confident that the tax relief for the second child, which was announced before the elections, could indeed be doubled from 1 January this year, but this is not the case, in fact, we have to wait almost five years before this can happen. That is why I hope that our amendment on this issue, as you have already made some progress with the promise, will be accepted, because it is true that in order for them to move one by one and for large families to come into effect, the path is through the two children, and the level of tax relief between the one and the three children is still very far away. Therefore, it is indeed necessary to consider this doubling. I trust that Kristóf Szatmáry's opinion will be mastered by the entire government side, and who dares to say that Hungary's biggest problem is population loss. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-188	Thank you. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that the LMP faction has offered to the opposition parties its time frame, so I will add 41-41 seconds to the time frame of the two opposition parties. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2014-10-28-189	Mr President, Dear House, I am a little sorry that this debate is over, because part of the excitement was saved for the end of the government side. I very much respect those Members who have sat through this, but calling those who have expressed their views at protests, at least in opinion, on the Internet, stupid and insurgent young people. I'd keep my subjective and private opinion to myself, because I'm here as a representative of Jobbik, but I'm sure the government has been looking at the so-called Internet tax, and if there are any such manifestations in the future, it'll look at it even more. So in this case, perhaps it would be best to sit back at home for the top management of Fidesz, drink a good coffee, and consider what has gone wrong in recent weeks, since it is fully visible that they are sitting in an ivory tower. It is perfectly visible that they have no idea of the Hungarian reality in this matter. I don't want to underestimate anyone, I don't want to judge them either, but you can see the person who visits young people on the Internet doesn't understand the current social movements in an amazing way. We need to see that it is possible to say here from the office of State Secretary, from the seat of representatives, that there are no passing-ons. Very quickly with the help of the World Wide Web, which I can still use free of bonus tax, I looked up an analysis in Autumn 2013 because after the introduction of the 2012 telecommunications tax, this was increased by the government in autumn 2013. Following the notification of this increase, but before the transfer, it appeared that from 1 November 2013 the intra- and non-network per-minute charges and SMS charges would increase for both retail and business customers and for the three large service providers. Do you know, Congressman, what was the difference between the three big service providers? That two had already made it right after the announcement, and the other a few weeks later. You can give examples of 800 people, you can also provide metropolitan examples, I do not dispute that they are so, but do not consider them representative samples and evidence, because it is not evidence, it is only a promise. Nationally, you can see that the situation was quite different. Nationally, the situation was that these burdens were almost entirely passed on. And neither you nor the Secretary of State were able to respond to what happened to the brutal transfer of funds above the transaction fee that affected the population. The problem is that in this package that you have put before us, you have no idea what traps are hiding. So the isolation in the ivory tower you've shown here today is the most sad for you because you can't see your own future. Any power operating in a similar way fails, the question is when. Now is the strategic point where you should sit back and think about all this, because if you really are visiting young people who have been on the Internet, there's a real problem around your house. A Jobbik government or any government can fix this, but it's not that hard to see the reality, even in view of the history of Hungarian parliamentarism and in terms of the last 24 years. Perhaps the period of 2006 in Gyurcsány was similar when the current leadership had no idea what was going on in its own country. Once again, we could have a constructive debate here, and we could talk about recommendations. I would myself like to propose to you a tax system that supports production, a transformation of the tax system to a degree that does not allow us to fight over the slices of the ever smaller cake, but increases the size of the whole cake, and then perhaps there will be much smaller disputes about what we do with the various sectoral taxes. The ultimate goal can only be to increase the size of the whole cake in Hungary, but this will require a tax system supporting industry, agriculture and tourism, which will create new jobs, create additional added value, and if the size of the cake increases, then perhaps more will remain the most important, family policy and the need for more children to be born in Hungary, because every tax policy measure should be subject to this sacred goal. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-28-190	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa.
u2014-10-28-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a truly noble attitude on the part of the majority groups that they have given the MSZP twice as much time to debate, but my colleague, Mr Korózs, rightly notes that the majority group in the Chamber is now us, the MSZP is present in the highest number. [[18.30]] There are more than two thirds of the majority in the room, so I can safely say, as a summary, that this tax system is unfortunately performing one thing that you said in the campaign that you would continue to do: continue the failed tax policy, which has led not to reduce taxes, but to increase taxes. Does this tax system preserve all the disadvantages of the Hungarian tax system? including high tax burden and high administrative burden? Without improving the competitiveness of the tax system. You have previously promised to create Europe's most competitive tax system, and unfortunately, the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy is, not least, significantly worse today than it was in 2010. Is that a big mistake in your tax perspective, which you're proclaiming? But it's completely wrong? that they want to focus on consumption-type taxes, because the consumption tax is more damaging to the poorest, the lowest earners, than the higher earners. It is no coincidence that all sociologists, all economists, say that sales tax is a tax on the poor, because compared to their small income, the 27 percent VAT and the vast amount of sectoral taxes passed on are much more significant than the average or above people. So we're saying this is the tax system? Despite all the discounts you set up, and we don't dispute that, so we support the family tax system, but? basically, this tax system is socially insensitive. The fact that the family tax reduction was introduced without taking into account our proposals, that the smallest earners could no longer enforce the tax deduction, because they do not have so much income, we had to argue to you for years, before this was finally accepted, so that the family tax relief could be extended to small-time earners; but the whole tax structure will also result in a brake and restraint of the economy. So face the situation that the current tax law will unfortunately result in further brake effects. What I have already said in my normal comment, in my previous comment, is that the introduction of an Internet tax is a very wrong message, it says that you are resisting the modernization of the country, resisting the possibility of breaking out that information communication as an industry as a separate sector can represent. You set a very fine example in your own example of 800, but you can't show me how much the price would be if you didn't introduce this tax because there is no such data. Think of the beautiful numbers you would have been able to give if you hadn't introduced this communication tax, which is a burden on the one hand and a bad message on the other. So I'd like to say? while leaving two more minutes for my fellow Members to respond? That they're on the wrong path. This economic policy, which is expressed by your increasing tax burden, is a bad message for the economy, and for the citizens of this country, is an unnecessary burden for consumers. The country deserves a better tax system than this, the country deserves a better standard of living, it would be better to think in this direction rather than in the introduction of further tributes. Thank you. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! ? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-192	A two-minute comment has been submitted by Congressman István Happy, I give you the floor.
u2014-10-28-193	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to say to Congressman Józsa that the economy has not yet noticed what he is saying because the economy is developing [[Moraj, there's an intervention in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not a single piece of data shows this, we all know that.]] So, it doesn't fully work as you say, economic growth is going well, it's going better than expected by foreign analysts, so I think the economy doesn't seem to listen to you and not to the socialist faction. I fully understand my fellow opposition Members, and once again, this has always been the case in the last 24 years, the opposition has criticised the tax laws submitted by the government, and the parties of government have defended it. It's totally fine, it's the way it's supposed to be. I would like to draw your attention to one thing: the fact that a group is now protesting because of the telecom tax does not mean that you are going back into power. So do not visualize government failure and other things, just as many speakers have visited, because this will not happen. It is obvious that the government will sit down and negotiate with those who do not want to destroy the streets, but also want to negotiate tax laws. I said to you, "Please, I know that the tax laws are a final vote in mid-November, and until then, a lot of things can happen with this tax and other taxes, because until then, even the governing parties will obviously negotiate this. I would like to say to Dániel Z. Carpathian that, of course, this is a 800 community, but this country is made up of small communities. You know, you say as we, the family, the settlement, many of them, and I know many of these 800 communities who have walked exactly as we have, that they have not increased their fee by tax, but have decreased. And if the question raised by Mr. Józsa is, "What if?" if you don't mind, such sentences don't make much sense, because it can't be proved that it would still have been reduced. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The point is that today we pay less than in 2011 and we introduced the telecommunications tax and could not pass it on to the service providers. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-194	Congressman Gergely Bárándy applied for a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2014-10-28-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, István, has exchanged or mixed the European Union with the Council of Europe in a previous debate, and now he is confusing the Fidesz propaganda with the facts, because the facts show that the economy is not improving, and the Fidesz propaganda clearly shows that it is, but these two are, of course, hitting each other. What we welcome, Mr President, is that if this was a implied promise from you, that things can be considered here, in Hungarian, that you may wish to override the idea that the Internet tax will be introduced. I hope that the Member can convince his fellow Members of this position in the next few days. What you have said about democracy, Mr President, you know that it is not a measure of democracy that the opposition can discuss 38 minutes or twice in a debate, but that it is a measure of whether, before you introduce a new tax, what is such as an Internet tax, and really goes against any developmental trend, you will ask the population, ask the people concerned, consult the opposition or any civil society organisation about what they think about it, or you will put down such a proposal on the table, the opposition can talk about it twice for 38 minutes, but you will take the same position. Well, I think that the measure of democracy would be to have a meaningful dialogue on this, not within you, but outside of you, with society, and to hear the words of the people who are going to represent tens of thousands of people in relation to the planned tax. And finally, with a sentence to the apology of Congressman Pócs: you know, Congressman, I was thinking, that joke, obviously you know it, and I'm just telling you that Kovács is a good man, I'm sorry. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So that's what your apology was worth. Thank you very much. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! ? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-28-196	A two-minute comment has been submitted by Congressman István Happy, I give you the floor.
u2014-10-28-197	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Mr. Barondy, Do I think that democracy is also a measure of democracy? Among other things? the rights of the opposition, because even when your predecessors, the predecessor of the MSZP, ruled this country, the MSZMP could not be an opposition. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Wow! Here we go!]] And anyone who wanted to be an opposition was put in jail. So this is also a measure of the opposition, even if their fallen party president, Mr. Mesterházy, is hitting his head. [[18.40]] As far as the tax is concerned, I do not mind, but I think that we have already listened to the protesters about this tax, as this has already changed compared to the draft submitted. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That was before the protest.]] So if someone listens to the people's voice, it is the government of national cooperation, and I think that has and will continue to be so. The fact that this is meeting your ideas, or not meeting your ideas, is another question. Once again, what I said at the beginning, the opposition's job is to criticise the government's proposals, to protect them. That's what happened here today in the tax laws debate. The form in which we will adopt tax laws on 17 November, whether or not today's submission will change, is still the question of the future. I think that there is still a lot of time, and we will see it on or around 17 November when we will vote on how this will be done. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-198	On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to János Pócs.
u2014-10-28-199	Congressman...? I'm sorry, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, it is quite difficult to leave when the Member spoke of a measure of democracy. Congressman, your party president, who was admired and followed with awe, Ferenc Gyurcsány, was the one who said that the frog was not asked when the swamp was drained. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Special didn't say so.]] In contrast, of course, he is not the standard for us. Watch what Minister Varga has said on several occasions. How many times have you talked to the people involved? ! He drew the 700 HUF limit by consulting the stakeholders. If anyone's consulting, Congressman, this faction is coordinating. Your team? It's your team! ? And he said they wouldn't ask the frog when they drained the swamp. Why didn't you tell them? Why didn't you tell them how to measure democracy? Thank you.
u2014-10-28-200	If there is no further intention to comment, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. Yes, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-28-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First, I would like to say a few words about the message that opposition parties believe was sent to this draft tax law. I do not understand why the Hungarian Socialist Party had to ask for the opportunity to speak twice as early on this bill. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Let our faction decide this]] 'Cause other than feeling there was a competition between the factions, was it really a big talker's race, and I felt a lot of anger and a sarcasm and cynicism for the ruling parties? Because it's not the tax law, because they don't really talk about it? He told me. In fact, when we talk about the need for modesty for municipal officials, I think that this should also apply to the opposition. But you know. They only had one serious message to cut the VAT. So you steered for eight years, so you didn't cut VAT, you increased VAT. For eight years, for two cycles, Fidesz is just beginning its two cycles in a row. [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That'll be even 30.]] I will, I'm sure, thank you very much, let's hope this is a good wish for Fidesz. So you have increased the VAT rates during your administration, but significantly. For example, the VAT key for basic foods is called from 12 percent to 25 percent, now for 5 percent. What they're saying is untrue. Uncredited, respected Hungarian Socialist Party! That's why I think that? of course, thanking you for the criticism and suggestions? Your proposal for a VAT reduction is certainly uncredited. Jobbik actually dealt with three types of tax: the transaction tax, which does not change with this tax law, would like to convert the advertising tax into the image of Jobbik, and Mrs. Hegedűs Loránt was concerned about what this law would allow municipalities to levy new taxes, municipal and municipal taxes, and linked this to the fact that there might be a problem with the funding of municipalities. I said this in my previous speech that this is not the case. This is an opportunity for municipalities and not an obligation. As regards the transfer of transaction fees, which we are now hearing for a long time from our better fellow Member, I would only ask if this transfer causes such serious problems, let us say in society, how can real income increase by 2.6 percent, and inflation is approaching zero percent. [[Ancient Novak: We'd be happy to answer, but we don't have time.]] If this is such a social problem that it destroys the population, then obviously these positive macro numbers would not be true. So I think that the transaction fee really needs to be dealt with in this respect, but what we need to see is that only a fraction of this is paid by individuals, rather by farmers and the Treasury itself. By the way, the tax bill, which is within itself in the bill, could not be seriously criticised. The LMP, where it was, where it wasn't, didn't really get into this debate. They certainly saw that they could not criticize the proposal in substance, because perhaps we should not take it as a valid criticism that a party says that we should not introduce the expansion of the telecom tax, the Internet tax in the common language, because that is what a opposition party should say when they wake up from their sleep. At the same time, there were no substantive criticisms on this issue. I would like to discuss some misunderstanding that I have heard from opposition parties. When I asked for a burden increase of ten thousand forints per family, a representative, Mr Korózs, tried to make serious mistakes, because what he listed is not paid in any case by the individual taxpayer, by the families, both farmers and employers; or in the case of the product fee who places it on the market becomes a burden. So what they were trying to say was that the government was now taking 10,000 forints out of the family's pocket, and they couldn't prove it. It is true that the tax burden of the cafeteria will increase, but it will be decided by the person who gives this benefit to his employee to withdraw it or not. I say that I do say optimisticly and confidently that we can maintain economic growth, that it is a large part of employers, but it may all be that now it appreciates its employees so much and can produce the additional burden of it, that it will not reduce the extra-wage allowance. That's what I'm saying, and that's what I'm saying. There were mistakes about the government debt. This socialist faction, it seems, has learned and automatically says, has produced results from six months of numbers. Here at the football game, you can tell the final result at halftime, it is very, very difficult, the MSZP will certainly not succeed, because we have told you many times that there is a debt repayment of HUF 3 billion, and 1 of these has already been achieved, and in the second half, this will reduce debt by 3 percent. And if you don't like it, if you don't like it by the end of the year, compared to the amount of December 31st of the previous year and the proportion, the government debt will be reduced compared to a percentage. At the telecommunications tax, I repeat to you: so even if you tell me a hundred times that the individual will pay, the families will pay for the extension of the telecommunications tax; no, the service provider. The service provider will pay for it. You can make fun of that, so I just told you that this was the whole attitude you had today, the fact is still a fact, so the service providers are burdened with this new tax. In the schnapps case, the anarchy is complete, because there are two things here, and I'll tell you in the end. [[18.50]] So one is the case of the brewing of wages, which was attacked by the European Union and the other by its own cooking. There is no problem with cooking on our own, as in the future, there will be a tax exemption of 50 liters for a thousand forints per household, so we will pay the thousand forints in essence when it comes to our own fruit and our own potion. One of the congressmen asked what was between 50 and 200 liters. The thing is, we had to announce this to the NAV anyway, but what we're talking about here is that we're making it possible for our own consumption to become essentially tax-free, and if you want to, you're cooking your own fruit for your own brandy, and accordingly, the new regulation. In the case of pay-making, it is true that the European Union has not allowed excise duties to be paid, and therefore the minimum amount required, the 50 per cent required by the European Union, should be paid in the future in the event of wage-making. That's about 850 forints. Finally, the most humorous of all, as regards misunderstandings, and the biggest misstep in today's debate was Sándor Burány, when he confused the honey brandy with the honey cookie. In addition, two of his fellow Members took over. One of them was Zsolt Legény, because he believed that the honey brandy would be taxed at a reduced rate, and the other was Zoltán Jobbikós, and they also took over that the honey brandy would pay better taxes. Actually, it's the honey cake. If the honeycake has a sugar content of 40%, but natural honey triggers the sugar by 20%, it will be taxed at a reduced rate, not the honey pálinka. But Sándor Burány had to set him up with a member of the government immediately that one of the members of the government must have passed. Now, that's the MSZ. It's the absolute peak of credulity. You don't look at questions, and you draw political conclusions that end up falling back on them. Ladies and gentlemen, There were many criticisms of the government's increased tax burden. I have to say that it has not increased, as it is now 39 percent compared to the tax burden on GDP of 41 per cent in 2009. It won't change in 2015. Thus, the tax burden has decreased, even in proportion to GDP. If we consider what four years the government has left behind from a budgetary point of view, that is, I think, a great achievement. Not to mention that turnover tax revenues have increased year after year. It is a very important goal to increase the income of families. Of course, this requires more income for them in the first place by means of growth. All the government can do is obviously reduce personal income tax. This was done, 16 percent, introduced a single-key tax, and increased family tax relief for families, and will continue to increase it from 2016 onwards. As incredible as this is, it is a large tax law in the scope of the tax law and one of the least changes in its content, because the tax rates have not changed, because the tax system has not changed, because the tax system has not changed, because the tax structure has not changed. Nevertheless, we have heard that everything can be criticized. Even something that doesn't change, and it's not bad. Because, overall, no criticism of the tax system could be expressed by any opposition party. They looked at what they wanted to do differently, but overall, they could not harm the whole of the tax system. I believe that the Hungarian tax system is stable, establishing Hungary's 2015 budget. It is a very important goal to further increase employment and to maintain sustainable economic growth, because this is in the interests of all Hungarian citizens, the whole country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew applauds. ? Dr. Attila Harangozó Tamás: A round of applause on the right! ? Dr. Zsolt Legány: I helped the governing parties!]]
u2014-10-28-202	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The report on the professional activities of the State Audit Office for 2013 and the report on the operation of the institution, together with the joint general debate on the proposal for a Parliamentary Decision, which initiated its adoption by the Economic Committee, will now follow. The submissions are set out in B/125. and H/1702 available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal has been conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, B/125. The author of this report.
u2014-10-28-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Act on the State Audit Office states that the President of the State Audit Office shall provide the National Assembly with annual information on the organisation's audit activities and the measures taken on the basis of the audit findings, and shall present the institution's operation and management in an annual report audited by an independent auditor. With the information submitted to Parliament, as President of the State Audit Office, I shall comply with my legal obligation. 2013 was the second full year when the State Audit Office carried out its tasks in a renewed legislative environment. Thanks to the new Court of Auditors Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2011, the era of checks without consequences has finally ended in Hungary. The co-operation and the preparation of a plan of measures relating to audits, as enshrined in the law, ensure that the Court's audits are fully used and contribute to increasing the regulatory, efficiency and transparency of the public financial system. Our mission, set out in our strategy adopted by Parliament, is to contribute to good governance and to support the Parliament with our controls and advice as a trusting organisation. The SAO's strategy has a strong role to play in promoting public financial transparency and regularity through sound professional and value-creating controls. The State Audit Office is an office. Not an authority, not a investigative body, or a court of law. The State Audit Office does not fine or regulate, does not take decisions on legal matters, nor does it investigate. The State Audit Office shall make findings and proposals and, if necessary, initiate proceedings. Moreover, the Court's work does not replace the internal audit of the organisation or the sectoral government audit, at most complements and controls them. Our controls are carried out ex post on the basis of a pre-defined public audit plan, a methodology that sets out strict international standards and an established audit programme. Based on our principles on the use of the Court's work and international directives, we have focused on increasing the social use of our work in recent years. Our mission is to launch positive changes and support them by making use of our controls and analyses that affect the daily lives of Hungarian citizens. The use of the reports may be made of measures taken, managed and operated by the auditors on the basis of the Court's findings. A high level of utilisation if the experience of a report is incorporated into the legislation through the legislative work of the Parliament. [[19.00]] The use may also be made by the State Audit Office of the State initiating an official procedure on the basis of its findings. The social level is an important element of the utilisation; the reports inform citizens of the use of the tax forints they pay. Honourable Members, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the State Audit Office has been characterised by commitment to forward-looking changes, initiative and conscious action. This was reflected in the increased support for legislative and parliamentary work, the strengthening of advisory activities and the systematic work that we wanted to contribute to the fulfilment of constitutional obligations in relation to public debt. Please allow me to continue my exposure by presenting these three areas. The State Audit Office is the main financial audit body of the Parliament, so it is one of the most important areas in which our work can be achieved. We want to support your work by making our reports, the findings, the contexts and the proposals contained therein more valid, their legislative work. Look at the results in figures!In 2013, we further increased our number of inspections, compared to 112 in 2012, 192 reports were published last year. We made a proposal to 347 recipients based on a finding of 2249 measures. Of these, 68 concerned liability. Compared to previous years, we have started to put public finances in order in more places, and we have seen more and more good practice on the part of the audited. Thanks to the new Court of Auditors Act, the SAO was able to have a significantly better impact on the functioning of the audited organisations and the regulation of its internal processes. With our reports, we contributed to the effectiveness of the legislative process.In 2013, at 50 committee meetings, 47 documents were discussed by the Members of Parliament in some form. Our report on closing accounts and our opinion on the central budget bill were discussed by 19 parliamentary committees, a total of 38 committee meetings. The findings of seven Court reports have been used in four legislative acts. It is a success to note that the legislators have also taken account of the Court's findings when amending the Land Development and Land Planning Act. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This is an important result, since the amendment has addressed several planning problems and a legislative environment has been created to promote the principle of subsidiarity. In the general debate on several draft laws last year, Members were able to learn about the relevant Court of Auditors' experience. In this respect, it has also been shown that the SAO shares his experience with the House when Parliament needs it most. For example, during the parliamentary debate on the amendment of the Competition Act, the Court's experience was recognised by Members in the debate before the publication of our report on the Economic Competition Authority and related studies. However, we supported the work of the parliamentary committees through our controls in the local government area. The Court of Auditors and the Budget Committee discussed reports on the audit of the internal control system of the municipalities, which allowed them to learn about the audit experience of nearly 40 Court reports in a committee. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In order not to repeat the economic policy generating almost bankrupt debt in our country, the Fundamental Law also laid down a strict requirement at international level. In particular, government debt must be kept below 50% of gross domestic product, i.e. GDP. Until this objective is achieved, aside from exceptional situations, the public debt-to-GDP ratio should be reduced year by year. This constitutional obligation also meant that the SAO could not continue its work within the usual framework. The objective of improving the sovereign debt indicator is a compass for us to define our control plan. This is the purpose of many of our inspections and analyses. We consider the mapping of macroeconomic risks to be a strategic goal. These are areas which, if they function badly, could jeopardise the balance of the current budget and hinder Hungary's development potential. Let's see what that means in practice. In order to increase public debt, the indebtedness of municipalities and majority state-owned municipal companies is a major contribution. Thus, in recent years, we have focused particularly on checking the municipal subsystem. In 2013, we published 174 reports from the Court of Auditors on municipal issues and, through our audits, we were present at nearly 250 locations. I can claim that the SAO has also contributed to the acceptance of municipal debts by revealing in fact the serious problems of municipal indebtedness. The selection of controlled municipal areas was also based on a targeted analysis, in order to check risky areas relevant to public debt, with emphasis on financial balance. After debt consolidation, it is essential to prevent debt regenerating. From this point of view, it remains a priority to establish or maintain a functioning balance. We support the achievement of these objectives through our controls. Therefore, we have put forward proposals to improve the financial situation of the municipalities and, together with debt consolidation, to bring about a lasting financial equilibrium. However, maintaining balance can only be achieved in the long term if the quality of management of municipalities improves. An internal control system, properly designed and operated, as well as well as well-controlled asset management activities, is a prerequisite for this. It is no coincidence that these areas have become the focus areas for municipal controls. In 2013, we paid particular attention to the control of majority-owned companies, which is very topical in several respects. On the one hand, the open or hidden indebtedness of these companies carries a risk, as these items can contribute to an increase in public debt. On the other hand, our controls clearly highlight areas of concern such as cost accounting and the lack of tools, which lead to so-called hidden debt. For example, in the absence of a well-founded cost calculation, it cannot be established where the reasonable limit is for the price of a public service. In my view, this also means that setting prices for public services is essentially an economic issue. So, through our controls, we also want to contribute to a more justified reduction in public service costs. Following the audit of the BKV, last year we checked companies providing public transport. A total of three reports from the Court of Auditors have been published on this subject and a number of other public service companies have been audited. These Court reports will be published on schedule this year. The problems presented above are not specific and similar shortcomings have been identified in other areas. Last year, at 20 hospitals, we checked the use of the funds used to operate the care. It has been found that the lack of replacements endangers the safety of future operations and that the actual costs of individual healthcare services are not known due to the lack of cost calculation and aftercalculation. The smooth, high-quality operation of hospitals is in the interest and legitimate expectation of all citizens. We wanted to help these objectives with our controls and our proposals with the obligation to act. Dear House, We often say that order creates value, and control is the basis for order. It is important to be aware of public money users: the SAO will sooner or later check their activities. The lack of control often leads to irregular, aimless, opaque operations, and I can say this on the basis of our experience. Therefore, in the design of the audits, the SAO has also become a focus area for topics which were not previously or only partially controlled by the SAO. [[19.10]] We don't leave white check marks. So we also go to smaller settlements and check out local municipal, ethnic and municipal authorities, municipal service companies, but such are economic chambers or theatrical companies. In 2013, we also checked areas that directly contribute to improving Hungary's competitiveness and speeding up economic growth. Of course, we also had to set a priority order here, focusing our controls on areas where we can achieve the highest added value. Typically, such an area is the acquisition and exploitation of competitive knowledge, which is an important element in increasing employment. The role of public employment in the employment of long-term unemployed has increased in recent years and has become at the forefront of public interest. In line with this, the effectiveness and effectiveness of the support system for related training programmes were also assessed during the public employment audit last year. Our audit found that public employment had a positive impact on the development of employment rates and unemployment rates between 2009 and 11. At the same time, we have revealed that no data were collected separately and systematically during the inspection period for training related to public employment. In the absence of numerical objectives and relevant data, the contribution of training to the effectiveness of the aid scheme could not be measured. Of course, this finding has not been without consequences, but an information system has started to be built that allows us to monitor the achievement of public employment objectives. In the area of competitiveness, too, we have checked the implementation of the vocational training policy's objectives in the field of professional practice. The essence of this is that students need to acquire competitive knowledge with professional experience in enterprises. Therefore, in the framework of the audit of the Chambers of Economic Affairs, we have also checked the use of vocational training contributions by companies organising practical training. The Court carried out on-the-spot audits of two ministries, two chambers of national and 16 territorial economics and 87 economic operators in the framework of the Chamber audit. Unfortunately, 50 out of 87 organisations participating in practical training have been found to be in breach of the legislation regarding the declaration and the underlying register of the vocational training contribution. As a result of the lack and incomplete management of employment logs, the regular participation, omission and evaluation of pupils in practical employment could not be justified in the case of 30 farming organisations. The audited organisations accounted for HUF 2.2 billion during the controlled period in order to fulfil their VET contribution obligation, and as a result they claimed nearly HUF 850 million back. In this case, the SAO also checked an area where there was insufficient or insufficient control of the use of billions of HUF. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'd like to stop here for a second. It is also our responsibility that if a parent sends his teen child to study, he should really take part in practical training and acquire quality and useful knowledge. It is also our responsibility that professionals trained in this way do a good job, whether they install a car or do a lady's hairstyle. The State Audit Office is responsible for monitoring, proposing and raising awareness, and you are responsible for providing legal guarantees. Dear Parliament, In addition to traceability, improving the efficiency of public financial planning is also a key criterion. This requires, in particular, a factual, objective and substantiated analysis. In my view, performance criteria and measurable targets should be associated with all controlled public forints. In the current, rapidly changing and unpredictable international economic environment, is public money a key issue? both domestic and EU funds? intended, appropriate, effective and effective use. This has a fundamental impact on economic growth, on the country's potential for development. Our experience shows that the effectiveness criteria for public financial planning are still inadequate and that targets cannot always be measured, so these indicators need to be improved. Public funds must be treated as investments and transparent strategies are needed in their use. It is necessary to define the objectives pursued, the planned quantified results and to keep track of them. Measurements shall be developed, up-to-date monitoring and control systems applied and continuous monitoring ensured. Honourable Members, The task of the State Audit Office is to support good governance and the work of the Fiscal Council by carrying out analyses and studies in its responsibilities. In addition to controls, our aim is to contribute to reducing public debt and strengthening the competitiveness of our country with our analyses, studies and opinions. In support of the work of the Fiscal Council, three studies and two analyses were carried out last year. In the systematic exploration of the factors that threaten the reduction of public debt, we have noticed that monetary policy also has budgetary risks, because if the implementation of monetary policy causes losses to the National Bank, it must be reimbursed by the central budget. This represents a real threat that we cannot go without saying, even if we do not have the right to control monetary policy. Therefore, the SAO has carried out a study in which we have highlighted the risks involved. We are pleased to see that the National Bank has used our ideas and observations in the process of shaping monetary policy. Our study also showed that there are several technical weaknesses in the current way of calculating the debt rule. In this context, we have carried out a ground-breaking study dealing with the principle and practical problems of applying the sovereign debt rule. In our study, we have made ten proposals for the further development of the sovereign debt rule in line with the Basic Law, which can be made publicly available today. Good governance has been supported by the two conferences that dealt with the economic growth context of fiscal policy and the assessment and management of long-term public finances risks involving renowned national and foreign rapporteurs. In my view, the synergy between the Fiscal Council and the Court of Auditors has also been achieved in practice, and this has greatly contributed to the fact that all the decisions of the Council were taken in 2013 by sound and consensus. Ladies and Gentlemen, Another important area of our advisory activity is the promotion of the development of public finances. To this end, we have organised several seminars on good practice. I believe and believe that good practices must be made public, that we must give guidance so that our work can support the renewal of the public financial system even more effectively. One of the outstanding initiatives of the previous year was the launch of a joint training programme between the SAO and the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. The aim of the seminar series was to strengthen the integrity of local authorities and to facilitate the regularity of their operation. The participants of the national lecture series of twenty stations were the supervisory bodies that monitored the operation of local authorities, as well as the mayors, notaries and financial managers. The Court also carried out an integrity assessment in 2013 to establish an integrity-based administrative culture, the result of which was also a summary study. At the beginning of my expo, I mentioned the support for changes that are felt by citizens as one of the final objectives of the Court of Auditors. [[19.20]] This approach is also reflected in our advisory activities. The SAO is an initiative and a committed supporter of the projects launched in the development of the Hungarian financial culture, since the resulting initiatives can start raising the quality of the financial culture in many sections of society. Last year's main result was the closure of financial culture research, which resulted in a kind of insight into its current standards, depth and financial attitudes. With the two declarations of cooperation signed last year, we have taken further steps to develop the financial culture. In recent years, an important institutional objective has been to consolidate innovative thinking and skills for continuous renewal. Regular annual inspections will be continuously developed accordingly. Every year we broaden accountability by involving new areas and organisations. Take, for example, the audit of the implementation of the central budget, during which we first assessed the process of drawing up the closing bill and increased the control coverage by more than HUF 140 billion compared to the previous year. In the context of the discharge check, a study has been carried out showing the macroeconomic context of closing accounts, giving an overview of 2013 as well. Have we met those demands with the study? here, as has been said in Parliament? the need to analyse the economic and budgetary processes behind the figures in the discharge report. Honourable Members, Finally, please allow me, for some thought, to address our progress on organizational development in recent years, as well as our communication activities. Over the last three years, a matrix-like organisational structure has been developed by reducing management levels and eliminating board membership, where work is carried out on a project-like basis. The established organisational structure adequately supports flexibility and rapid response to changing conditions. To do this, we had to transform our design system, that is to say, we had to switch to rolling planning, which is based on the choice of topic based on risk analysis. We had to delineate precisely the areas of responsibility and responsibility, standardise and standardize our processes. In line with this, we have broken down the entire monitoring process, from planning to monitoring availability. We have eliminated the separate quality assurance and have placed the focus on quality management at all levels of the organisation. The renewal of audit methodological documents is also ongoing, since the Court of Auditors should also take account of changes in the international standards governing it. We are active players in the international community of SAIs, we share our experiences, we adapt our innovative initiatives and we adapt the good practices of others in our own operation. Is this particularly necessary for the renewal of methodologies, since it is also necessary in Hungary? Like in every country? a Court of Auditors is able to do its job, and it is necessary to gain experience from another. Dear Parliament, In order to achieve our goals, it is essential to treat information at social level as a strategic area. We build our communication activities on a consciously designed, mutually-based basis, and in practical implementation we strive for continuous innovation, the application of modern technologies. In addition, we continuously measure and analyse the progress made. I would like to highlight an innovation in any way, and this is the electronic press conference system, which is a new tool to provide direct information to individual municipalities and counties and to provide them to the public. This has greatly supported the direct transmission of the findings and suggestions of the Court's reports to those directly concerned. Ensuring an intensive flow of information and sharing of our experience is also extremely important because it allows us to influence all users of public money. We'll get word to potential checkers, find out what we found elsewhere during our inspections. Thus, a self-learning process can be initiated to improve their own operation, control, and learn from other people's mistakes. There is hardly any more cost-effective control utilisation. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2013, the State Audit Office also operated in accordance with the laws, but was not satisfied merely with the fulfilment of the mandatory tasks. All this time, we have pursued our activities in such a way that we can have a tangible impact on everyday life, that is to say, the work done by the Court of Auditors should benefit from it. As a result, we have played an active role in consolidating the public financial situation and developing the financial culture of our country. We have contributed to reducing financial vulnerability at individual level, reducing national risks. And we particularly welcome the fact that the Economic Committee would give us the authority to do so in its decision for the future, confirming our intention and ability to do so. I can assure you that we will continue to work in this spirit for the well-being of citizens and for the sustainable development of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-28-204	Thank you very much, President László Domokos. Good evening. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Tiffán, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, Mr H/1702. The author of the proposal for a decision.
u2014-10-28-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Committee discussed B/125 on 21 October. Report No 1. In the debate, it was said that the new Law on the State Audit Office, adopted two years ago, enabled the establishment of a more effective institutional system. This allowed, among other things, more effective control of the municipal system. The Committee considered the objectives set by the State Audit Office to be appropriate. The Economic Committee shall be composed of H/1702. The Commission unanimously supported the proposal for a decision adopting the report on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2013 and the accounts on the operation of the institution. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-10-28-206	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to comment in the absence of his powers. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by the keynote speaker in a 30-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-10-28-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, President László Domokos presented the report on the operation and activities of the institution in so much detail in his expoze, that I would like to emphasise in a few areas what is in the report, in the report. In 2011, the new Court of Auditors Act came into force. This, as well as the expectations and management decision, required that the organization itself be renewed. In addition to organizational renewal, however, it had to change its content. Thus, there was a need to promote transparency in the utilisation and use of public funds in new areas. Did you have to fix all this so that? As President Domokos said? an end to the era of checks without consequences. So the State Audit Office? as an external audit body? monitor the proper way public funds are used, monitor and inform, and assist in the further management process. On this basis, as a result, we have seen a strengthening of the advisory role in the last year under control. On the basis of this new method of work, philosophy, which represents this change, the emphasis of the work of the State Audit Office in 2013. Last year, the State Audit Office increased the number of audits by the Court of Auditors so that more and more public finances would be put in place. [[19.30]] The audit of municipalities accounted for a significant part of this, 90 percent. These controls covered the most risky areas such as asset management, the financial situation and the internal control system. The State Audit Office has also placed great emphasis on the control of areas which pose a risk to the growth of public debt. Before the municipal debt transfer, the municipal system posed a significant budgetary risk each year. At the same time, it is essential to prevent debt regenerating after debt consolidation. In doing so, the State Audit Office carried out significant work by raising awareness during the audits. It has invested considerable resources in monitoring areas that determine the country's competitiveness, thereby contributing to the growth of public debt. An example of this is that the State Audit Office of the State made a special assessment of public employment and the effectiveness of the support scheme for related training programmes in 2013. The investigation found that the aid scheme effectively contributes to the inclusion of active age people in employment, resulting in an increase of nearly 150,000 people in public employment during the period under investigation. This efficiency improvement was also aimed at monitoring the indebtedness of municipalities and municipal companies and institutions. The next area I would like to highlight is that the State Audit Office also examined the operation of the Hungarian National Bank in 2013. The State Audit Office found that the operation of the Hungarian National Bank was not legal in two respects. Until December 2012, the MNB's file management practice did not comply with the legal requirements at the time of the previous management, and the Hungarian National Bank submitted data to the IMF, which were classified as business secrets, without authorisation between 2008 and 2010. The Central Bank's file management software did not hold the required certificate. It was not legal that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank provided the IMF with information of a business secret in connection with loans drawn from international organisations by the Hungarian State, in breach of the provisions of the credit institution law. In addition, the State Audit Office has supported the work of the Fiscal Council with several analyses and studies in other areas, highlighting budgetary risks. Several conferences, as we have heard, and have launched a unique series of seminars to publicise good practices, provide guidance to the audited bodies. Professional activity in numbers. I would like to give some examples, perhaps some of what President László Domokos has already said. The State Audit Office published 192 reports against 112 in 2012. This was a significant indicator improvement. This meant that the State Audit Office itself worked significantly more effectively. He made 2249 proposals for a finding based on the obligation of action to 347 recipients, 68 of which concerned liability. The Court published 174 reports on municipal issues. He has launched 20 joint training programmes in the field, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. Let's look at some areas of professional activity and operation. 2013 was the second full year when the State Audit Office carried out its tasks in a renewed legislative environment. Compared to previous years, more and more places have started to put public finances in order, and more and more so-called good practices have been experienced by the audited. In addition to monitoring and advice, reports have also contributed to the effectiveness of the legislative process. As has been said, 47 documents were discussed in some form by Members of Parliament at 50 committee meetings in 2013. In order to increase public debt, the indebtedness of municipalities and majority state-owned local government companies contributed greatly and thus the management of municipalities poses a significant risk to the balance of public finances in previous years. Therefore, in recent years, the SAO has paid particular attention to the control of the municipal subsystem. In 2013, as has been said, the Court of Auditors' report on 174 municipal issues has been prepared, and the SAO has also agreed that local government debts have been taken over by realising the serious problems of municipal indebtedness. As President László Domokos said in his speech, in 2013 the SAO paid particular attention to the control of majority-government-owned companies, which was relevant in a number of respects. On the one hand, the open or hidden indebtedness of these companies posed a risk, as these items could contribute to an increase in public debt. On the other hand, what has also been said, the audits have clearly highlighted areas of concern such as cost accounting and the lack of means, which could lead to so-called hidden indebtedness.In 2013, the SAO also controlled areas that directly contributed to improving Hungary's competitiveness and speeding up economic growth. Typically, such an area is the acquisition and exploitation of competitive knowledge, which is an important element of employment growth. In line with this, in another area, the Court also assessed the effectiveness and effectiveness of the support system for related training programmes during the public employment audit last year. In the area of competitiveness, too, the important practice-related objective of a VET policy has been monitored. It is an important area and many good vocational training organisations and companies have to participate in this activity. In addition, the SAO's statutory task is also to support good governance and the work of the Fiscal Council by carrying out analyses and studies in its responsibilities. As has been said, three studies and two analyses were carried out last year in support of the work of the Fiscal Council. Every year, the SAO broadens control and accountability by involving new areas and organisations. Thus, the control coverage increased by more than HUF 140 billion compared to the previous year. We can conclude that the State Audit Office also operated in accordance with the laws in 2013, but is not satisfied with the fulfilment of the mandatory tasks alone. It has continued its activities in such a way that it can have a tangible impact on everyday life, i.e. making use of the work carried out by the Court of Auditors. As a result, it has played an active role in consolidating the public financial situation and developing the financial culture of our country. On the basis of the facts and arguments listed, I recommend this report to my fellow Members and ask them to support the SAO's further work. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-28-208	Thank you very much, Congressman Cherry. I now give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-10-28-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, B/125 on the activities of the State Court of Auditors in 2013 I would also like to start with the fact that 2013 was the second full year in which the State Audit Office of Hungary operated with an enlarged power under the new legislation, with more financial possibilities than can be expressed in financial terms. [[19.40]] The majority of the Fidesz Parliament gave the SAO the money, horse and gun led by the former active Fidesz politician, so theoretically, even higher quality, even more effective work would have been expected from the main financial and economic control body of the Parliament. With the law on the SAO adopted in 2011, a highly centralised organisation was set up, which is not contradicted by the now announced matrix organisation, because the president is on top of it. The broad powers granted to the President and a high degree of financial independence have created considerable room for manoeuvre in determining and carrying out audits. As we have already indicated, however, this does not necessarily mean a higher level, higher quality and more thorough control of public finances and the management of national assets. The report in front of us, which, at first glance, is particularly pleasing, with photographs, deposits and explanatory texts, unfortunately supports our earlier concerns and fears. The National Assembly can provide almost any permissions and toolbox for a control organization, but a lot depends on the performance of the work on the leader that determines the operation. On the basis of the previous legislation, the State Court of Auditors, which was then operating, had a smaller budget, lower salaries for officials, less powers for the organisation in relation to the consequences of the findings of the audits. At the same time, the organisation which actually tried to fulfil the real function of the Court of Auditors has done a job. In the course of their investigations, they were really investigating serious matters of great importance, ignoring the fact that the area or subject under consideration could cause discomfort to current state or municipal management, as their proposals pointed to existing problems, often indicating the right solution. The Parliament received a detailed report on this every year. Under the presidency of Árpád Kovács, the Parliament has indeed received thorough reports. It is enough to compare the annual reports made at the time of his presidency with the report before us. In contrast to the 220-240-page report at that time, the scope of the current 74 pages is contained. [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] The problem isn't basically that we have to read less, that wouldn't be a problem. The problem is that the state of public finance management has deteriorated significantly over the last two years. At the same time, the SAO misses problems and does not deal with real matters of great importance, and sometimes ignores them. That is why it was interesting in Mr President's report that we do not leave any white check marks. I would like to point out a few where we feel left behind. This can mean so much in the operation of the State Audit Office if an organisation, previously independent of parties and government, is not headed by an independent professional, but by a former party politician, equipped with greater freedom of decision. The main problem of the MSZP Group's 2013 State Audit Office report is, therefore, that it does not give a real, meaningful overview of the control of public finance management, the findings and the consequences thereof, the SAO has not dealt with the control of really important matters. The SAO, therefore, has not managed to cover all major areas where there is indeed significant public finance management, despite the money, steed and gun. I would like to highlight three specific examples of these, first of all the lack of control of the management of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. In 2010, the government decided to take away nearly three million people's savings for old age and to spend it on debt cuts and current budget expenditure. To this end, the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund was established in December 2010 and took over the assets, the total assets, as a portfolio of natural persons, of private pension fund members who withdrew from the social security pension scheme. The Fund acquired ownership over the assets transferred to it by transfer, only CLIV 2010. may be used for statutory purposes. The fund manager is the Government Debt Management Centre, the main decision-making body of the Fund's governing body. The Governing Board shall be entitled to dispose of the fund's assets; the operation and management of the fund shall be controlled by the State Audit Office, in accordance with the law. However, the operation and management of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund is not in fact controlled by the SAO, since neither in its 2011 report nor in 2012 nor in the 2013 report before us mention that the SAO has dealt with the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. In our opinion, this is a very serious failure, because this fund has a very significant amount of public money, it manages, it has limited information about its operation, its regularity and its management, however, by Parliament. We believe that the auditors should devote time and energy not only to one or two billion-dollar cases, but also to a thousand-fold larger cases, since the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund has taken over nearly HUF 3000 billion of the annual GDP, and today only HUF 100 million of this wealth is available. In the meantime, a HUF 18.4 billion loss of assets was admitted, and securities in the existing package could not be sold at least at the time of receipt, so it could have been a loss of hundreds of billion forints to the State, which the SAO did not account for. This raises a number of questions to which a satisfactory response could be given if the staff of the State Audit Office were to take a thorough look at the operation of this organisation. We believe that, with regard to the regulation of the operation of the fund, it could be examined how prepared and regular the operation was. For example, the following questions should be answered. How is it that the fund set up on 22 December 2010 started operating with the regulation on detailed rules of its operation published only substantially later, on 31 May 2011 in the Hungarian Gazette? How could the Government Debt Management Centre Zrt., designated as the fund manager, occur? without the decision of the implementing regulation and the governing body of the fund, have you decided to use a deposit guarantee service with a market participant of HUF 400-500 billion? How could market sales of assets have started in June 2011 with the Fund's sales strategy only adopted by the Governing Board in October 2011? How could the risk management service provider only have contracted the fund after the start of sales? How could the fund manager have only adopted the Fund's rules of administration at the end of October 2011? Are there any liability for loss of property or losses resulting from inadequate regulation? How could it happen that the Fund's seat as Chairman of the Governing Board was possible? For five months, almost undetected? Has he been in conflict with a certain expert who's been running the Eximbank since then? These are just exemplary questions, but they show that while the SAO-led auditors from former active Fidesz politicians are burdened with a few million-dollar case, there is no energy or attention to control the very significant public spending. [[19.50]] We therefore believe that the State Court of Auditors was also responsible for monitoring the functioning of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. For reasons unknown to us, however, they could not make time for this. We find all of this extremely regrettable and even irreplaceable. The other case of this magnitude is the purchase of E.ON. The SAO did not deal with this significant transaction involving national assets, such as the purchase of certain gas interests of E.ON. This was one of the most significant state measures in 2013, involving the use of public funds and even the use of budgetary funds. As it has been hidden for a long time, but it can also be seen from the preparatory documents, which we have learned from the materials we sued in August this year, the Hungarian state has bought these companies in a much more expensive way than I understand in a realistic way. According to the National Asset Manager, the preparation was irregular, and the issue of illegal state aid is raised, and the containers appear to have been bought by the government in order to keep some of them out of use, closed or, at least, kept in technically poor condition. All in all, the Orbán government is very bad, while E.ON has made a very good deal. What is the reason why the SAO failed to examine this transaction? The SAO led by the President didn't want to cause inconvenience to the government led by its former party president? What could be the reason for such a very significant one? I'd like to explain it professionally later? Is the SAO refusing to deal with a complex case? There's a lot of weird stuff about this purchase story. Based on the valuations of assets, risk analyses and summary materials that have been hidden so far, it seems that if the Government of Viktor Orbán had listened to the established facts and calculations that have now become clear, he would not have bought such a business for that much. In fact, he's asking for money to put this gigantic cost element around his neck. The total business took 460 billion, of which 260 billion was the actual purchase price, while only 110 billion was the value of the shares. However, from the calculations that have now been published, it is clear that 111 billion of E.ON Natural Gas Trade and E.ON Natural Gas Storage together could only reach E.ON's dreams: in case there is no risk around this purchase. In fact, there was nothing about shopping but risk and risk. The Hungarian National Asset Manager literally described the following:. In the range of values established for the two companies, the currently known purchase price falls only on the assumption of the most favourable conditions and does not reflect the risks inherent in the transaction. Therefore, the value of the companies is somewhere between minus 355 billion and plus 111 billion forints. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The published documents show that E.ON recorded in the declaration of intent concluded between Viktor Orbán and Johannes Teyssen in November 2012 without government authorisation that it would only sell its companies if the total purchase price was EUR 875 million. That is 260 billion forints, exactly what the government finally paid the Germans. Compared to this, even months later, the representatives of the government talked about this as a possible maximum price, in fact, companies are being screened, and because it is a huge transaction, they carefully consider how much they actually cost. Only the fully legitimate and market value the state is willing to pay, they said then. Knowing the documents now, there is no evidence to support Viktor Orbán's claim that these companies could have been bought under the price established by international auditors. Another strange thing is that E.ON signed the declaration of intent with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, including the price of EUR 875 million, i.e. HUF 260 billion, without having access to the most important documents. In other words, Viktor Orbán promised to buy and price by not having the most important information that fundamentally influenced the value of the companies. Sára Hegmanné Sára Nemes Minister of State for Property Policy, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets in February 2013, while he said that there was a serious expert investigation, the materials were a business secret until the last minute, only the initiated ones could see them in the secret room. But there, of course, the state asked for guarantees for access to all detailed materials. However, the declaration of intent revealed that the Hungarian State, as a buyer, could not actually have known all the material in the secret room. In the letter of intent, E.ON stipulated that certain contracts can only be recognised after the agreement on the sale of shares has been signed. After which, however, the terms of the sales contract can no longer be amended. So E.ON gave them only after the declaration of intent was signed with Viktor Orbán, including a fixed purchase price of EUR 875 million. On the basis of the new information provided, however, it was found that E.ON's gas dealer company suffers more losses due to the so-called take-or-pay commitments than previously known. The Hungarian National Asset Manager notes that the relevant procurement contracts were not available at the first stage of the due diligence, only anonymised summaries, which did not contain the most relevant conditions. The previously secret documents published show that, corrected by these data, the company's value of 30 September 2013, i.e. the combined value of equity and net debt, is between the already mentioned negative HUF 355 billion and HUF 111 billion, so it is not in a thank-you relationship with the price paid, i.e. it is between EUR 1245 million and EUR 389 million. This company may not have appeared more valuable than before getting to know the confidential contracts, not after that. The third such area is the case of the so-called tramp doggies. It is only necessary to draw the attention of the State Court of Auditors to this case, the circumstances and the process of which it would certainly be useful to examine in the future. This is the process of allocating tobacco concessions. The law establishes a concession law, which is part of the national wealth. The utilisation of this, its process of valuables, is surrounded by a lot of elements that do not meet the conditions for responsible management of public funds and public wealth. We believe that, in the context of national wealth management, the SAO should also conduct an investigation into the conditions under which the assets are being used, in order to verify its results. Mr President, Your account deals with wealth management on less than one-and-a-half pages, including the part of the National Asset Manager, if you look at it in rows A4, ten rows. We don't think that's enough. What you said about public financial planning: in this area, too, I would like to advise you, for the last four years, I have asked the spending of ministries every semester, because in 2010, there was a statement, and even a government decision, that in the spirit of saving, all government procurement is prohibited. Well, over the course of the four years, over 100 billion dollars have been spent by the ministries, and we can almost say that in style, because if I don't ask, there's no publicity anywhere else. It's very interesting what you said about consulting. This must be continued, the best practice or the principle of best practice must indeed be followed, but if this is what is being proclaimed, do I really recommend these three major cases to you, which may be a loss? I don't mean to say that it's a corruption suspect, but where there's money like that, can it come up? You will be responsible for monitoring professional clarity and legality. To this end, I was delighted to hear that information at social level was considered important. Please comply with these, too. Thank you for your attention. [[20.00]]
u2014-10-28-210	Thank you, Congressman Józsa. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has indicated that it does not wish to present the group's position. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. You have the floor.
u2014-10-28-211	Mr President, Dear House, I am sorry that, on this very important agenda, this House is already a little bit toothy, so we will be discussing very little, otherwise very important strategic issues, from the national inventory to the transformation of control, many issues could be addressed. Perhaps the most important starting point is what everyone here would like to know, what did Parliament get? In quotes? for the HUF 7.7 billion budget support that this organization could otherwise have rightly received, because its operation supported this allocation. And it's obvious that the committee responsible...? Since the Parliament itself should judge the nature of this activity, there has been a somewhat specific situation in this regard, since now the Economic Commission was the plenum from which this whole process started, but in every normal country? And do you want us to put this in a quote? the Parliament has either a permanent committee of the Court of Auditors or a budget committee with a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. This cannot be said for us, after the strange transformations, now such a, many midwives lose the child's condition a little. In the United Kingdom, for example, two standing committees dealt with this issue, and it can also be seen that we have been able to re-establish the Court of Auditors since 1989, either as a separate committee, or, as I said, as a subcommittee of the budgetary, financial and tax committees, the budget of the SAO has operated as a sub-committee. Nevertheless, the Economic Committee has been given confidence in something called the report, which is before us, but it is clear that we have already raised issues that need clarification, and I would like to raise a few which, if it were to be clarified in a positive way, would even be eligible for what we have before us, but if this resolution does not succeed, then the initial trust will also evaporate, as appropriate. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Can you see, then, that the draft text of the resolution proposal is based on the fact that the Parliament states that the SAO has fulfilled its legal obligations? Is there a way to argue about that? On the other hand, there is another declaration before us that the National Assembly recognises the involvement of the SAO in the development of financial culture. There are questions about whether or not these are complete and that is all we would like to know. For example, I would very much like to know the answer to the question why the government could not make the register of state assets even though it was decided by itself and spent billions of forints on it without success, and the taxpayer still does not know how much of the state's assets, whether they have increased or decreased. So we don't get answers to such basic questions as whether the treasury silver is there, has it grown, has it been taken away, is it available or can it be increased any longer. So the fact that we still do not have the multi-promised inventory of the country, in my opinion, is a little out of the whole issue that we are discussing. As regards the SAO, the development of financial culture is a very important task, and a positive discussion has already been launched at Commission level, where I have also received positive answers to the questions raised, but it is clear that this can be achieved in the first place not by conferences and by good PR, but by increasing number of concrete investigations, understandable reports and professional assistance to the audited ones, as this can prevent the re-production of problems in the long term. It was also found at the Commission stage that the Court of Auditors is unable to generate a full coverage in the area of audit and my question whether the Treasury, the Court of Auditors and others are parallel in the area of audits, I also feel that we have found another area to be clarified, at least here we want answers that support the confidence given in the Commission stage and do not achieve the faction's trust in the report. But we also need to see that, while the motto of the report is that the SAO is performing better, we are still getting almost and exclusively consolidated data on, for example, what is the situation with regard to the number of inspectors. We know 180 SAIs around the world. If you look at the reports abroad, and the Jobbik faction, the experts around it, or in the previous cycle, László Nyikos, our excellent expert has naturally told you what the starting point is for these comparisons. If we had received a foreign and more extensive report or report, we might have found further questions and answers. For example, we do not know from the present time what the inspectors involved are, how many of them are, how much an audit day costs, how much a report costs, but other types of reports from other types of reports or other financial culture would even show how many service cars are used or, more importantly, how many reports have been made to the court stage and how many final judgments have been made. I do not mean to say that a statistics led by itself would provide a full and comprehensive picture, but I do say that the answers to these raised questions would bring us much closer to the current question of whether the SAO has performed properly with regard to this multi-billion-dollar budget support and the use of this mass of resources. It is clear that the management of public funds, the use of public wealth, can best be examined in two respects. In the first round, we can examine whether farming has been done properly and whether the other aspect is reasonable, whether the use of public goods has been wise. Is it clear that, as far as this performance test is concerned, I feel that there are serious delays and the development of performance indicators? Like the SAO for you? This is still a rejected area, so we cannot see such an area in the appropriate extent. It has been said many times that this is not necessarily the task of the SAO, which I do not agree with, for whose it is. In practice, the SAO was also involved in the foundation of the current Court of Auditors law. Therefore, the best way to contribute to improving the quality of financial culture is to set a good example and try to develop similar efficiency indicators for other budgetary bodies, so let us measure this whole area of activity. We can also see that we are not faced with a taxational list, so we cannot know, for example, how many public foundations have been audited for their financial statements and what is the practical and real benefit of the SAO studies named the performance audit, so this calls for more answers. And let me bring another important financial aspect in here, if necessary. The Polish, the German Court of Auditors, but the English also show and report annually the savings that have been made in the budget thanks to its investigations, and this can be justified. So if we had started from the English example and adjusted the figures, we would have seen that, taking into account the annual support of HUF 8 billion, we would have had to contribute to the improvement of the rates in terms of budget of HUF 50-60 billion, but we do not know that, since we do not have a statement of this kind at the moment. I'd really like it if it were available. The prospectus, which lies before us, mentions 192 reports by the Court of Auditors, but this is a very narrow wording, a statement that a gardener informs us that he has produced 192 vegetables. Yeah, okay, but how do I know what the melon is and what the carrot is? So there is a situation where we do not even know whether the 192 reports mentioned contain the 105 accounts that, as a financial audit, had already been made public in the first part of the report. We can also see that huge shortcomings can be identified, and there is little or no information on, for example, the control of public foundations. Let's give you some examples. Can we hear more about the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation? And his activities? , or even the Public Foundation for the Homeless, the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation wishes to join this line, the Hungarian Zoltán Higher Education Public Foundation, the Gandhi Public Foundation or Tempus. So there are a lot of examples here that we would like to see and see data both on how we manage and on the process of control, but unfortunately, this report has been left out. There is also no mention of the control of foundations, public bodies, associations and other so-called beneficiary organisations and of the companies they set up. So, not only could full coverage not be achieved, but, in my view, the Court of Auditors is not expected to do so within two years? Like what? Since its expansion, but in the long run, it could be expected at a strategic level. Of course, everything cannot be checked every year, but this package of tasks should indeed be processed in the strategy, but the new strategy does not address it at all. [[20.10]] My questions are therefore focused on whether the Court of Auditors has been able to live with this new type of asset system, how it will be able to live according to its plans in the future, so what vision it has of extending its activities to, and most importantly, the basis of the whole, the lack of an inventory of assets, makes it difficult for the Hungarian citizens to do their job, if they want to know how much gold is in Hungary. Is there controversial data even in this regard? What's the treasury silver, what's the national fortune? There was a debate about national wealth here in the previous term, so it was a high degree of ridicule. Maybe more people remember what happened here. They began to register parts of the Hungarian national property, and here they narrowed it down to state property. The two, we know very well, are not the same. So what happened? For example, the Lanchid has been forgotten from the Hungarian national assets. Fortunately, Parliament's building was in it, where we were arguing, but here we were seriously concerned about the motivations that led the Members of that time, the then government, to start registering part of the state's wealth. Well, we figured it out. For example, I had to, if I remember correctly, protect 54 small railway lines in areas of Fidesz representatives' interests or constituency from various investment intentions by making such a registration. But we must say that this is very, very far from the real national inventory. So, on the one hand, we should know what resources Hungary can manage, how to protect, how to increase them, and at all, this is where our country, our national economy's investment opportunities and exit routes belong. There is one more serious consequence, however, due to the lack of a national inventory: if we do not know what our national assets are, who is responsible for protecting it? Who's gonna be accountable for the waste? These are very serious issues, and the really sad thing is that not only in the previous term, we bettermen, many Members have raised these serious issues. Not only did we not get the answers, but, unfortunately, in such a narrow circle as we are now, less than a dozen of us actually listened to a report, there is a general speakerial round, a substantive debate, I don't know if it can develop, because in a closing kind of thing, we usually get some kind of reaction to what we say. But what we can see is that about these real national issues, such as the situation of population loss, the state of our national wealth, that we even know what's going on with this, and that we can bring in the entire system of control, its parallelities, its shortcomings, and its white spots, because there are; so until we can take the right time and energy for these strategic issues, and let's say, today's and yesterday's debates are taking place in Parliament, I say, the national economy cannot be set on a safe course. That's why? Although, once again, here in committee, we voted in favour of what lies in front of us? With regard to these very serious issues, the ambiguities must indeed be dissipated in order for a party of responsibility and nation-thinking to vote in favour of the adoption of the report and the adoption of a proposal for a resolution that is in front of us at the moment. I would therefore like to urge Mr President, but by the way, all colleagues and all experts dealing with the subject, to urge that the social discourse that falls behind on these subjects should be forced to do so, on all fronts, to make a national inventory of assets. Let's talk about the fact that as many Hungarian settlements as possible need control, we need to be able to use the tool system that reaches the Court of Auditors and measure their own performance. Show how much benefit they can bring to the Hungarian budget from the amount of support they receive, show how much of the savings generated by their activities, by the checks, are saved as much as they receive budget support. If the English and German examples show that this can be started, then it is obvious that the Hungarian institution could also have a very serious social acceptance if these data were not only circulating as well as being well-known, but were supported by facts and figures. I therefore urge you to open this fact price, to talk about facts, figures, and, in view of the next report, please make sure that these areas, which may be treated or treated as white spots, are presented much more clearly. After all, the only way to expect a responsible decision and a responsible decision is not to establish a public agreement on these very important issues, since I feel that it is still a little further away, but at least with important data, we can negotiate in a fair manner. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2014-10-28-212	Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP faction indicated that they did not wish to present the group's position. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. I don't see any comment. So that means... [[Dr. László Cook reporting.]] Yeah? Okay, I'll give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2014-10-28-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry for the slowness, but I thought I was down for a pre-spoken commentary. Mr President, Dear Lords of the President, Dear House, I would also like to begin my speech by saying that, not only is this room toothy, but other than the one who has to be here, if I see it right, there are six or seven of us here to discuss a rather important presentation, I think. The problem is that this really formalizes it, it just formalizes the kind of debate that we can have here. The problem is that, as has already been said, we can get some reflections in one of the closing words, but we can no longer reflect on that ourselves, so there cannot be dialogue, there cannot be any contrast, and with some preordained evil, these debates if we do not mature and we cannot tell and confront our opinions, then there really will be a formality. That's what I feel a little bit about this report. The State Audit Office and its President are, of course, obliged to report to the Parliament and will do so. It does so by showing us, of course, the last year's operation in a beautiful, illustrated and particularly good shape, which may even be said to have increased the area covered by the audit by HUF 140 billion, but, as my fellow Member Józsa said, this kind of control does not cover many billion forints. This shows only his formality, because the specific issues we have said are the purchase of E.ON's gas business, in terms of the operation of the pension fund, or in terms of trade applications, there is much more money than 140 billion forints, and if we take only the seven questions we ask about the pension fund, and if we put them in chronological order and try to verify its operation, not even from an expediential point of view, but how it happened, I think that these questions could be discussed in substance. Questions could be asked in substance, and we could come to the conclusion that something was practical, productive, and rewarding, or not. It may not be important when it was adopted, it may only be of formal significance when an organisation's organisational and operational regulations are adopted. I mean, maybe the laws were still followed. However, I think that if we could not only assume this, we could continue to carry out an investigation on the grounds of expediency and effectiveness, and we could discuss this, and with this perhaps transparency and public confidence in public institutions, especially democratic institutions, I think that we could feed it better in Hungarian society. We could do this even if there were no six people in the 200-member parliament, and we could do this even if we didn't have this debate around 8:30, and then this kind of public confidence, I think it could be obtained not formally, not by force, but by actual content. We have therefore tabled an amendment to today's proposal for a resolution, and we will submit it, in which we would correct the fact that the Parliament states that the State Audit Office has fulfilled its obligation to report to Parliament. The State Audit Office was able to check this formality. [[20.20]] In addition, we ask the Honourable Parliament to call on the State Audit Office to examine the three areas that we have mentioned, of which two are definitely quantifiable. One is about HUF 3,000 billion. The other is about at least 260 billion, most of it is about HUF 466 billion, which is well above 10 percent of GDP. These two areas, where the state has managed and managed public money, are certainly, as well as the trade-concession, the tobacco concession matters, the value of which is currently invaluable, invaluable, examined and presented to us by the State Audit Office. We'll make another suggestion. Are we proposing that the State Audit Office, as it was before, be very strict? Did our fellow Member Peter Cseresnyés say that? checked the operation of the Hungarian National Bank, so do it now. I think that the Hungarian National Bank has now started a little more comprehensive and deeper social maneuvers than the document management rules, but not least to initiate financial processes, without ownership authority and ownership supervision. Opening hours: no supervisory board has been operating in the Hungarian National Bank since 5 May. So he started manoeuvres in which he gave HUF 200 billion to 5 foundations or authorised himself through his board of directors to start major real estate purchases, and one of them has already been completed. I believe that this is the task of the State Audit Office to verify the operation of the Hungarian National Bank and the management, effectiveness and practicality of the Hungarian National Bank in relation to the use of these public funds. Here's the word public money, of course. The money, the profits that the Hungarian National Bank has can be from exchange rate risk or interest rate. Of course, there could not have been profit from interest, but only from the exchange rate could this large amount of money have been made. However, it will either indirectly use this money to finance the state by using government bonds with the foundations to which it has given them or by paying them as dividends to the state fund. I believe that the investigation of these matters and the soothing settlement of them may be the responsibility of an independent institution, the State Audit Office. And in the end, while we are talking about the Hungarian National Bank, I would like to say that István Józsa, my fellow Member, may not have mentioned, as a courtesy, that he is now suing the State Audit Office for making a press declaration. On 15 February, he made a press declaration that he called them fabricated and conceptual accusations, some of the findings contained in the SAO report presented today, which undermines the authority of the government and the central bank. That's what István Józsa told me on 15 February last year, and then a lawsuit took place. I am talking about this because I believe that this is part of the prudent operation somewhere, and if the Prudence is controlled by the SAO itself, then it should work for itself. Our fellow Member, István Józsa, must have known about this case by simply receiving the order and the court's obligation to do so. No one's ever contacted him before, either with a press correction request, or with a view to clarifying the case, or with his appearance at a trial. This may have happened because the State Audit Office of the MSZP website marked the office used by István Józsa on the delivery label where it holds reception hours. This is obviously not his address. None of us live in a party office. So, according to the court, there's been a miscarriage of service. He didn't check in the Central Data Register whether the subpoena was served to the right address, so István Józsa couldn't present a valid defence in this case, and he was convicted. Of course, he did not let it go, and the matter will continue, since the presumption of service cannot stand up like this. I believe that it could have been the task of the State Court of Auditors in this regard, first of all, to seek out the declarant by giving them a different opinion on why they could have agreed on this, of course, and could have been asked for a press correction on this matter. If such a dialogue had been seen by the person concerned, he would probably have done so if he had been convinced by the lawyer of the State Audit Office. On the other hand, it is, of course, that a lawsuit is not so transparently successful, that it is not too complicated to prosecute, and that, I think, speaks for itself. Of course, the case will continue. What we have tabled in the amending proposal, I would like everyone to consider. It's a lot of money. Over 10 percent of GDP. In this case, I think we all need to be clear, because in the E.ON case, not repeating all of our arguments, of course, there may still be documents, even when the government made a decision, and we still can't see clearly in it. With regard to the Pension Management Fund, we need to see how they managed. With regard to the trade-concession, and not least with regard to the management of the MNB, I believe that it is in all our interests that this debate should come to a calming end. The State Audit Office can be of great help in this, so I ask you very much to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-28-214	I'm asking you if there's any more comments. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't think so. Then the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, if he wishes to comment. [[On the signal of László Domokos:]] It says yes. I'll give you the floor.
u2014-10-28-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Mr President, Thank you for your comments at a really late time, but perhaps not so late, although it is not my place to discuss the way in which this House will be discussed. I think we're available when that happens. I am not competent to respond to house-to-house issues either. The Economic Committee had the opportunity to ask questions, I was there, and I tried to answer them. In the context of the general debate, I thought that I had applied, that I would reply, but after I was told that there was no other commenter, I would therefore give the answers in the closing section. I would respond to some of the points, especially because, if I understand correctly, Parliamentary resolutions are also planned, and it would be a shame if this happened because of indiscretions or inaccuracies. One of the important comments made by the lead speaker of the MSZP, which I regretted was that he was considered involved in the case, was mentioned in the previous speech. I try to answer objectively on this issue. I would like to reject the accusation of non-controlling the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the closing accounts are currently being discussed by the Parliament, and on page 24 of this, we are dealing separately with the control of the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund. If you'll excuse me, I'll read it to you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Fund continued to sell assets transferred by private pension funds in 2011. By the end of the year, ÁKK Zrt. sold all the securities it owned and some of the assets. and MNB Zrt. given to you. Since the Fund was not required to make a budget payment in 13, the revenue received could be used to reduce public debt. At the end of 2013, the fund was now owned only by cash account assets, which were used to cover the fund's subsequent payment obligation. The fund's initial assets in 2013 amounted to 316 billion HUF 3.7 million. The amount of this was increased by the assets transferred by the winding-up private pension funds, which amounted to HUF 9684 million. As a result, HUF 22 million of revenue was generated from the contributions of the Government Debt Fund Manager. Government debt decreased by HUF 87.5 billion in 2013 involving sovereign debt. [[20.30]] The proceeds of the sale of the assets of the fund amounted to HUF 224 300 million in 2013. The Fund transferred HUF 253 571.1 million of its sales and other revenues for the year, and EUR 22 million of its contributions to the State against the State Debt Fund, of which 68 percent were spent on government bond repurchase and 32 percent on partial early repayment of government loan transfers. The transfer value of the assets transferred by the Fund to MNV Zrt. was HUF 69 100 million, taking into account the changes in the assets of NYRÁCS in 2013, the closing stock of 2013 was HUF 176.7 million. Is it obvious that this is only part of the summary, and it belongs in the accounts, and in the framework of the accounts, we present a much wider round of checks every year? Can we just look at the last few years? behind which there is a clear specific audit of auditors, I cannot explain its details now, as this is the final summary of the work of more than 120 or 130 different inspectors in various areas for several months. But the point is, as far as the operation is concerned, my colleagues have established what I have read. So, obviously, there was an additional audit activity behind this. The other area, which I understand is also opposed by those present, is the issue of E.ON's buy-out and the report by MNV. I'd like to point out that your control of wealth is now underway. It's expected, like last year, to end by the end of this year. So I can't give you any more information about this at the moment, and it's not at this stage that we have this report. The other issues that either Dániel Z. Kárpát or MEP Józsa said, such as the question of the tramps, but on the other hand, associations, foundations, public foundations, and a list of those who now feel that we have not been present or have not been able to do so in the last year, are clearly always more factually than the area that the Court of Auditors can actually verify. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is the responsibility of all those involved in asset management to present, publish and even publish their annual transparent accounts on its website. It is not the SAO's job to interpret these reports, repeating the same. Of course, where the audit takes place, however, we will give an account of it, we will present the accounts as the widest round of accounts, but in the special additional fields, also the checks on assets required by law. I have to say that I am glad that our MSZP fellow Member praised the former audit work that was done before 2010, but unfortunately, with regard to wealth, I would not be so confident that a concrete review of all financial controls and items was carried out, not even because I met with a serious lack of audit capacity in 2010, how many people are able to control assets and control companies in the Court of Auditors. As a reminder, for example, the entire community of hundreds of local government companies, including BKV as the largest, and further listed, did not have the appropriate amount of practice, since the new legislative framework allowed the Court of Auditors to go to such a place from 1 January. I am probably not legally aware of this right now to react immediately, but the control of an association's company, i.e. a company, is still limited today. Do you have a wide range of powers? Did Daniel refer to Z. Carpathian? the audit of the SAO, but for example, there is no such width of the audit. In the case of associations, foundations, the court and the prosecution also have serious powers, which obviously does not replace the audit of the SAO, but the primary reporting and legality review is attached. In fact, the number and the number of users of public money today cannot be limited to the whole scope of the audit, nor has it been done before 2010, which we are trying to take into account, at all, the number of companies, the population of public money users that is far more than ten thousand a year, and I am not talking about the other tens of thousands of companies using tax incentives, of which we only touched on, examined and encountered very serious irregularities with regard to the use of this. It's a circle no one's ever touched before. But in previous years, the issue of controlling investment tax incentives worth a thousand billion was one that the SAO has tried for the first time over the past twenty years. I am not saying that there was capacity there then, and I am not looking into it, but it is important to see that there are broad areas that will appear even this year, and the following year, and probably even in the following years. So all I can say is, thank you for the announcements, we obviously sense the lack of this, and we're trying to go after it, everything in its order, and, of course, possibly as some kind of risk signal. So your announcements, who have named the various controlled ones by name, will be subject to risk analysis and will be examined when we can contribute to monitoring them. The MNB's audit was also reported. I would like to tell Mr László Szakács that a regular check is still being carried out at the National Bank for 2013 as we are monitoring it year after year. This is also known, as its audit programme is public to the Court of Auditors, and we are publishing it from mid-term to mid-term. That's how it's gonna work? and I think László Józsa, Congressman Józsa also mentioned this..., Congressman István Józsa, sorry! ? The investigation of this is going to take place now, so we're going to come back year after year. With regard to the structure of the report, I am pleased that everyone likes the new format, we had to work hard enough to read it. The people present clearly proved that they had read it. I must say, in the previous period in Parliament, the excuse was that the Court of Auditors, for example, had too many two hundred pages on closing accounts. Did I answer the other day that this is not a detailed description of all the SAO's reports, since it was behind this last year? Is that important? We had 192 reports, and it's still public, it's accessible. So we can't repeat it, we didn't think it was appropriate, because then we say that once we've sent it, we're going to give it the same thing again, and we're not sure that everyone would take it as a sign of appreciation, that we're assuming that they didn't read it, and we're going to repeat it again, and then we're going to report every detail. We've been looking for bigger cases, bigger contexts. If this has not been achieved in everything, we will try to improve the content of the report further, taking into account their comments. The number of people working in the Court of Auditors is known to you, as in the Finance Act, as in all institutions, so the Court of Auditors is set out annually in the Annex: 598 authorised staff have been in the Court of Auditors for many years. Was this under something last year? I don't know by heart right now? We worked with a number around 570. [[20.40]] Obviously, this includes those covered by the Labour Code and civil servants, 500 more than a few, that changes. This year I've seen a number above 510 because we've been increasing the internal rate of control, it's known. There is nothing more new to say about this in this report. Regarding the efficiency indicators that Daniel Z. Carpathian raised, I have to say that this has been examined. László Nyikos has raised this several times in the House. There is no such international standard showing the accepted audited number of this. Everyone is trying to do something, especially those with a past of 300 years or more. This is the past 25 years in Hungary. And the reason that this is important there is because at that time, they are no longer dealing with the problems of regularity checks in most countries, but, in fact, they are actually dealing with performance control. That is why I said that it is generally true in the public financial situation of the Hungarian economy that this measurability is not sufficient. Since there is no such clear standard at international level as to how to show this, there are indeed such innovative efforts to do so, but no one else has audited it in those reports either, but this was according to a voluntary declaration. In many cases, there is one type of Court behaviour behind this, where these elements can be better quantified. Thank you very much for your comments, your signals and your comments, and if our report has won the level of admissibility on your part, I would also like to ask you to support this with your vote. I guess my time is up, and I can't give you any more thoughts. However, I thank you all once again for your interest and your contribution.
u2014-10-28-216	I will ask Mr Zsolt Tiffán, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. There will now be speeches after the agenda and a speech. Márta Demeter, on behalf of the MSZP, has applied for a speech after today's agenda. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2014-10-28-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In yesterday's speech, I really tried to take a very brief and concise look at our foreign policy situation, a corner of it, linked to what, by the way, was the starting point at the time of the change of regime and after that. That is what I would like to continue today. We can make it clear that, at the time of the change of regime, a moral capital was created that made Hungary an absolutely predictable, stable partner, created international recognition and could actually see us as partners. This is the capital that the Orbán government is now destroying with its foreign policy moves. The Prime Minister of Hungary Tibor Navracsics, Péter Szijjártó and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán now hold that we are not considered predictable by our allies, partners or reliable. This is a very dangerous process, and I would like to mention today, in a few words, the action of the United States, its diplomatic action, I am referring to the ban scandal, which the government has not yet clarified, although it is clearly the government's responsibility to reveal what corruption cases are. It is the government's responsibility to identify the members of the government who may be involved in this matter. In the long term, if not clarified, this could have an impact on Hungary's position in this federal system. And another step has been taken, because we have also read on the Internet, which the government is planning to tax now, that the Minister of State of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs responsible for European Affairs made statements on Monday with Hungary, the Hungarian Government. He also stated that several steps of the Orbán government were of particular concern. Here he listed things that have been produced for the past four and a half years. So such is the advertising tax, the media regulation, the Internet tax, the land law, the conditions of constitutionalisation, the related fundamental laws, and, of course, also highlighted Viktor Orbán's obscene speech. He also stated that the European Union is a community of values. We have heard Viktor Orbán's statements about what he thinks about values nowadays and how important they are to him, but most of all he does not think it is important. We should point out that what we are living in today is not a system of national cooperation, it is not a work-based society, nor is it an illiberal democracy; what they are doing is merely a policy of power, nothing else. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the two-thirds of what Fidesz thinks it has, it stops at national borders, and the two-thirds in Hungary are not even two-thirds, which we know factually. Viktor Orbán moves government representatives as a marionette puppet, and he is also trying to play the same game with our Western allies and partners. That's definitely what they won't let us do in the future. With this policy, this unpredictable and irresponsible foreign policy, Viktor Orbán and the entire government are making fun of our allies and are throwing back the development of Hungarian society, and Hungary is completely isolated in international space, although the right direction would be a predictable and stable foreign policy, a foreign policy that is aware of Hungary's possibilities, which is realisticly assessed, and thus helps us to bring out our benefits precisely in international communities with a predictability. Orbán said that he expects the mayors to do hard work and humility, and we also say that we expect Viktor Orbán to do hard work and humility, so treat foreign affairs as well. The path you're following is wrong. If you do not change that, you will make a serious mistake that will enable you to define Hungary's development direction for decades, to reverse this for decades, and to completely isolate our country. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Now we're at the last minute, change! Thank you very much.
u2014-10-28-218	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 3 November 2014. Thank you for your work, and this session will be closed. [[The meeting ended at 8:48 p.m.]]
