u2014-10-13-0	[[The people in this room are standing up to welcome the voters' community.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that MEPs László Botka and Flórian Farkas have announced today that the Act on Parliament is 80. Paragraph (1) of this Article provides that there is a conflict of interest between them. They shall not exercise their rights and shall not receive remuneration until they have ceased to do so. Members shall have 30 days to eliminate the cause of conflict of interest. Dear House, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked for a speech before today's agenda on the election of the local government. I give the floor to Prime Minister.
u2014-10-13-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I asked for the floor because yesterday the municipal election took place in Hungary. About the facts, in short. 44.29 percent of the voters took part in the election, with a total of 3 618 677 participants. Local elections were held in 3177 settlements, where 7997 mayoral candidates and 59 181 candidates made their mark. We still have to wait for the results of the minority election. The election was valid and effective. First of all, I would like to thank the voters from here. Thank you for taking part in the election and giving birth to the next four years of Hungarian democracy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thanks to the candidates. I would like to congratulate the winners, especially the mayors, who have a lot of work to do. The voters have done their part now, it's the mayors' turn. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The result is clear: the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party won with a huge advantage. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Of course, everyone, every party and every candidate has their own explanation and their own evaluation. My explanation is that after April and May, the country won again in October, and it won in prestigious terms. In my opinion, this victory belongs to the whole country. But can there be an election victory for the whole country if competing parties and competing candidates run, and some win, and some lose? In our answer, this House, the whole country has won because the outcome, the outcome and the result of the election is a cooperation, cooperation and unity of unprecedented size. From the examples of the last 60 years of European policy, we have learned that a country can only rise if it is united. We learned this from Adenauer, we learned from De Gaulle: every European country that wanted to rise could only rise with the power of unity. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must make good use of the strength of unity, and this is the responsibility of the government and the majority of governments. We don't hide from this responsibility. We are not used to averting, spreading responsibility and taking responsibility, but to taking responsibility. As early as 2010, we made it clear that we have a big, serious plan, which I can sum up briefly by full employment. More specifically, putting Hungary to work. This goal could not even be set earlier, not only because of the different economic fashions, but also because of disintegration and cynicism. Since then, much has happened in Hungary, for example, in 2010 the first two thirds were born. I am telling you today that if we use the strength of unity well, then we can achieve full employment. But only if we stick to our plan, if we stick to the, something for some reason, and do not give in to the, something for nothing. Dear House, In 2010, 10 million people lived in Hungary, worked 3 million 600 thousand, paid taxes on their income 1 million 800 thousand. Today, 4 million people work in Hungary, 4 million people pay taxes, economic growth is above 3 percent and unemployment is below 8 percent. According to the Roma community alone, there are 57,000 Roma families who have been working for the first time in their life. That's a great result. Congratulations to them, too. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]] Those who start working, ladies and gentlemen, find that their lives are changing; that they give people a job and dignity, that they improve their self-esteem, and that, last but not least, they bring money to the house. Dear House, The people understand this, and I believe that this is why we were able to win our many elections in a row, and that is why the result of the municipal elections is confirmed to the current government: it confirms that Hungary is working, Hungary is working. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary has learned that a better life cannot be based on speculation, aid or credit, because the end is always the same: collapse. This is the case of a house built on sand: collapsed families, crashing lives, collapsing economy, crashing country. Dear House, Am I convinced? And did yesterday's election confirm that? It's time to put the era of ideologies and Islam behind us. If you monkey on ideology, your nose will fall in the first booth; this has happened to some. We must stand on earth two feet, reality and common sense are above ideological reasoning and spiritual speculation. The municipal election has confirmed the majority of the government that we need to pursue a pro-neutral, national-based pro-neutral policy in the coming years. Dear House, This Triple Victory isn't the end, it's the continuation of our work. We're at the moment of grace when we don't need to start over, we need to confirm, we need to continue, we need to go through what we started. The improved figures are encouraging, and we have come to believe that Hungary is doing better, even according to the IMF. But we, ladies and gentlemen, are not interested in statistics, but in the real life of Hungarians. Statistics are such a science that if one person eats two fried chickens per day and the other one eats one chicken per person according to the statistics. Therefore, we should not focus on statistics, but on real Hungarian life, and yesterday we received feedback and confirmations from real Hungarian life. The situation is improving, and the direction is not bad, but it is good, but it just means that we have come from Europe's basement to the ground floor, and we need to start now. Yesterday's election shows that there is still soufflé in the country, there is still room to create new jobs, there is room to take further steps towards a work-based society. Yesterday's election also confirmed that welfare societies in Europe were likely to be shaken because it turned out that prosperity was not a basis for anything but, at best, a consequence of work. This is our goal, so we will not support unemployment, but we will support work in the coming months and years, and yesterday I saw people not only understand it, but also support it, people are on the side of this goal. Ladies and Gentlemen, From yesterday's election result, we also concluded that people have strengthened the policy that focuses and supports families. Most of the workers have families, male or female, family and family, and families make the nation strong from within, we know that. So we have to avoid it? And this will be the most important task of the next period? The citizens of Hungary must not be trapped in the choice between work and family. Ladies and Gentlemen, In summary, I can tell you that, as before, the Fidesz-Christian Democratic People's Party and the government will continue to serve the three-thirds: we will also hear the voices of those who did not vote for us yesterday; who did not vote for us yesterday, well, they can count on us. I therefore call on Members to take advantage of this moment of grace in the three and a half years ahead of us, and I ask you, Members, to strengthen unity and cooperation in the country. The government is counting on the House's support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-2	Dear House, After the Prime Minister's speech did not exceed twenty minutes, he was even significantly underdone, so according to the house rules... [[Defiance.]] Did I say something funny? Yeah? [[Intercoms.]] I am glad that my fellow socialists have at least something to have fun with. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Thus, the factions can express their views in five minutes, provided they wish. [[For signal:]] Mr. András Schiffer has the floor. Here you go. [[13.30]]
u2014-10-13-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would also like to thank in part the voters, partly the electoral bodies, for their participation in the municipal elections and for their conduct, and I would like to congratulate the winners, whether they are pro-government, opposition or even independent, including those independent mayors who won yesterday with the support of the LMP. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, First of all, thank you very much for the ideological reasoning you gave me briefly, in a few minutes. I'd like to tell you that in recent years, you've been accused of turning around for the last 25 years. With all due respect, this charge is completely unfounded. Unfounded because you represent the same extreme right-wing economic policy as you did in the years of the change of regime on the side of the SZDSZ, Vice-President of the Liberal International. [[It's grumpy.]] Mr. Prime Minister, In recent weeks, you and your ministers have been talking about fewer people living out of the state. I want you to tell me what that means. What does it mean that Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, says that the share of state redistribution should be reduced by 5.5 percent, by HUF 1700 billion in Hungarian. Speech is what you understand, they say it's not a restriction. Let's call it a cutback. Where are you going to marry me? That's what we should be talking about, Prime Minister. The fact is that in recent years between HUF 250 and 300 billion have been withdrawn from the welfare sector, i.e. from social, health and educational expenditure. The fact is that in 2002-2003 we spent 6 per cent of GDP on education, currently less than 4 per cent of GDP, we spend 1 per cent of GDP on research and development today, the EU average is 2 per cent. That's what we should be talking about, Prime Minister, instead of ideological words. Yeah, you're right about the fact that prosperity can't be speculated, can't be based on credit? Nor can prosperity be based on exploitation. Let's be clear about what's behind the employment eulogy. Today, unemployment in Hungary would be around 10 percent if they did not include public employment and work abroad in their statistical magic tricks, which you despise very much. [[Noise, murmuring in the ranks of the governing parties.]] In Hungary, dear Szilárd Németh, the situation is that in the last four years, in the competitive sector, businesses with employment of more than five people have been able to create new jobs for 50,000 people. This is largely due to the automotive industry and to the EU's development resources. If Szilárd Németh is so interested in how the European Union feels about this: the European Commission's latest report says that the employment rate in the SME sector in Hungary has decreased by 2 percent compared to 2009. We have lost 32 500 jobs in the SME sector since 2009. What are you gonna do about it? What they're doing is speeding up the outflow of income. In response to my comments before the last agenda, Prime Minister did not respond to the fact that today in Hungary there is 10 times more support for multi-enterprises than for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. He did not reply that your strategic partners achieved 2831 billion operating results between 2010 and 2014, and 81 percent of this came out of Hungary. 81 percent of this goes out, and you didn't stop the outflow of income, you didn't stop it. After all, Prime Minister, I think it should be said that you have declared a fight against sovereign debt. Government debt did not decrease, but increased. And then we hadn't talked about the HUF 3 000 billion private pension fund and the HUF 3 000 billion Paks loan. Prime Minister! The ideological formula you have outlined here is about a dependent, lack of solidarity, a vulnerable, assembly country that revives its resources. Instead, we want an independent, renewable Hungary that preserves its resources, keeps it together, creates a chance. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-4	Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Mr Noël A. Kinsella, President and escort of the Canadian Senate, who are seated in the decorative box, who are invited to stay in Hungary on an official visit. I wish you good success and a rich stay in Hungary for your further negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr. Gábor Vona, leader of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-5	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, The 2014 election season is over. We have three elections, we all know the results: the elections were won by Fidesz, and Jobbik became the second force in Hungary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Perhaps you agree with me that in the three and a half years until the parliamentary elections, we should focus on action instead of communication. The question is, of course, what are these actions? Obviously, that's what we're going to be talking about, hopefully, our debates here at the National Assembly. Speaking of debates here: Prime Minister, are you here regularly against us in the last term? To me and to Jobbik? He took on the position of the teacher uncle, which, of course, is fine in a sense, because, as they say, you are already an experienced old fox in politics, and we are still young, a new couple, and I am also a young politician. You must know a lot of things that I don't, you've seen a lot of things that I haven't seen, and I'm sure you've done a lot of things that I never will. Why did I bring that up? I brought it up, Prime Minister, because, whether you like it or not, Jobbik has become the opposition in Hungary, in Hungary, political debates will have to be held here in Parliament and outside, and I will say it again, whether you like it or not, because something called the left is falling apart, falling apart. In the past, he did not represent much social sensitivity from socialism, but rather only the socialist party and the network. I thought of Ferenc Gyurcsány at the time that he wanted to dig the grave of Hungary, and I do not think that it is any different today, but I must add, in any case, that he did not dig the grave of Hungary, Ferenc Gyurcsány, but the grave of the Hungarian left. I never thought I should congratulate him, but to quote his words, yes, Ferenc Gyurcsány has done what he has done now, so thank him for this work. But I don't want to deal with the dead lion, but I want to read to Prime Minister some phrases or some political slogans. Reduction of rent, taxation of banks, forinting of foreign currency loans, opening in the east, dual citizenship, community service programme, and of course I could continue the line. What do they have in common? These are the main elements of your government's actions, of its success propaganda, but there is one thing that you have in common: all taken from Jobbik's program, all of which Jobbik said much earlier. [[Defiance, noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Feel free to look into it. Jobbik said all of them a lot sooner. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In the program, you agreed to do this before you raised it to government level. It's possible to find out, but the truth is, it happened, which is fine, by the way. We're just happy about this, because that means that we have an impact on a two-thirds government. The other question is that they do it differently than we would have liked; you are on the government, of course. When we're on the government in 2018, we'll do it differently. What I have brought here, Prime Minister, is that perhaps it is worth paying more attention to Jobbik; not only to the voters of the three thirds, but also to those voters who did not vote for you, but for us, and therefore we represent them in this Parliament. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] Then listen to us better in the coming three and six months, I ask you this; we have held a constructive opposition, and we will continue to do so. What we feel is in the interests of this country, whether it is your initiative, we will support it, which is not, we will not. That's how simple Jobbik's attitude to these questions is. In the short time that I have left, let me highlight three things, Prime Minister, which I think is important in the coming years that it also has to undergo a change of focus, I could say, in a way that could be taken over from our programme. For example, here's the job creation you've been talking about. It is strange, but I must agree on many things with my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer. I also believe that there is a success propaganda in terms of job creation. You say that the situation has never been so good, but you never talk about the fact that half a million people had to leave the country because of the problems of job creation, social need or threat, they had to earn a living abroad, and not out of an adventure, Prime Minister, as you said before, but for existential reasons. We are in favour of the public work programme, but let us not call the public work programme an employment policy. It's a social policy measure, and it has to be handled accordingly. What Hungary needs is the creation of Hungarian-owned production jobs and production businesses. Please, Prime Minister, I would like to hear the calculations and statistics on this in your next agenda. The other thing, if it was a municipal election, is the local government. Let's just say your centralizing efforts failed, the system has not become more economical or more efficient, but the system has become more fragmented. It is worth considering whether a strong and dynamic country can be built without strong and dynamic authorities. Finally, the remaining 20 seconds: the Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence, Prime Minister. You regularly paint the situation pink here, but the problem is serious, it is very dangerous; we are sitting on economic, political, cultural and all kinds of bombs, Hungary's internal Trianon is built. We need to find a harmonious, humane solution, that's what Jobbik wants, and that's what we want a substantive debate about. Please, Prime Minister, let us continue this for the remaining three and a half years and find solutions. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.40]]
u2014-10-13-6	It is now up to the leader of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party. Congressman Tobias József has the floor. [[István Szávay: Attila Retkes of MSZP.]]
u2014-10-13-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, A famous actor said, "I can't argue with anyone, because if I went down as low as they did, they'd beat me with their routine. This was true of the previous speech. As for municipal elections, the first word is thanks. Thank you to all the elected Members, all the mayors, no matter what political positions you have. I would encourage all municipal representatives and mayors that, although the government has evacuated the idea of local government over the past four years, has withdrawn its powers, leaving the most important, the social system, I demand that the Prime Minister and you provide the municipalities with all the conditions to be able to deal with the social crisis in which Hungary is today. You could argue in the Prime Minister's speech about what Hungarian society looks like today. Prime Minister says the ideologies are over, and it's all real. Prime Minister! The reality is that one in three children today lacks one. The reality is that 3 million 400,000 people make no more than 65,000 forints. The reality, Prime Minister, is that, while you want to deal with reality without ideologies, what value is it that overlooks for the third year that the unorthodox economic policy that has led to poverty deepening and widening in Hungary...? You don't have an adequate answer. In Hungary, the number of families with children is 15 percent higher than in the Visegrád countries that are deprived, with 28 percent higher numbers of young people in poverty, which is the European average. The removal of this situation is not a government in itself, but the responsibility of all of us. But we have spoken so many times between the walls of this House, and for some reason nothing is happening. Somehow we hear important speeches after the municipal elections, surely the millions who have not yet felt that they are represented by this government, Prime Minister. Surely there is a political majority, certainly this is what the elections show. But remember this: if the political majority is not connected to the social majority, then there is no real successful, strong Hungary. The active voters who have left must have voted for you most of the time, so you can now tell us how successful, how united and how strong this nation is. I would like to say that this power is always shown to its weakest citizen. There are more and more people in this social group today, Prime Minister. More and more people feel that even though you promised not to leave anyone on the side of the road, more and more people feel that they are on the side of the road. There is a responsibility to who is the one who provides protection, who is the one who provides them with security. These are the municipalities that we have now heard about, the question is whether a government will create those conditions in action, and this will be revealed when the budget is negotiated, what means, what protection the government can offer to the municipalities who are looking for help. Finally, Prime Minister, he spoke about unity and full employment. A knowledge-based society can only provide full employment for Hungary. It's just openness, access to knowledge, not shutting down, not what's socially incomplete, dissipated in its social security net, it's unenforceable, and everything's just and exclusively for work? That's what makes you a full-time employee. Prime Minister! If there will be no opening in Europe, there will be no opening to the knowledge of the world for the growing generation today, then there is no united Hungary. Modernization is an important issue for Hungary. You don't want to talk about it in the last three years. Don't shut down Hungary! 'Cause being locked up is gonna be the result of an exodus. Return all knowledge to Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-8	Now it's Mr. Peter Harrach's turn on KDNP's side. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-9	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spoke earlier as party president, and the key words he mentioned may refer to this: unity, cooperation, employment, the honour of work, the opposite of reality and ideology, the reconciliation of family and work. I thought last night it would be nice to hear a similar speech from the representatives of the parties. Perhaps a sign of modesty would have sparkled. And then we could have said what was attributed to Churchill, that he was a humble man, for every reason. We couldn't say, except that he was a proud man for no reason. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But it was an exception that was refreshing. The man also spoke, I might say, he divided his senses, who beat up his own party, sent the country to the ground, and now he wants to return. But with his performance, he earned himself the right of eternal silence and modesty. He doesn't exercise that right. But let's look at the results. I think the result is very important. But at least that's how important it is. Thank you to those who have stood in the fight as candidates for Congress or mayor, and thanks to those voters who have gone to vote in exercising their social responsibility. If you allow a few sentences about the three forces that fought, the left, the centre of the right, and the radical right. The left has failed to break out of what is the position of the losers. I see three reasons for this. The disintegration is obvious, it's an organizational problem. The identity crisis has long tormented the left, because from the representation of the small man, it has taken on the representation of employers and the financial world. It represents the social model of neoliberalism, the decadent worldview that has led Europe and partly Hungary to the wrong path. On an ideological basis, the left is thinking in the taboo system, and unfortunately, he has been practicing a bad practice for decades. As long as the civilian side manages to produce results, it builds society by creating an orderly world from it, the left is scattered and creates unorganized conditions. If you look at Budapest for a moment, you can see this perfectly. Over the past four years, an orderly world has been created in Budapest, and citizens have seen it, with a political Mayor who has achieved his ideas with sufficient determination, as opposed to a disintegrating and ideological left that could not grasp reality and represent reality. From the radical right, let me say that I feel that they have reached the peak of their political activity, because they have actually been able to get more with some places. It will not be easy to maintain this position in the next period. Obviously, they were also helped by those former left-wing voters who provided the passage between the left and the radical right. Of course, we need to say a few words about ourselves, and once again, we should recognise those who have stood up, including, of course, the Christian Democratic candidates. But in any case, one of the important bases of the result is the local performance they were able to deliver, because most of them did not start first, but four, eight, who knows how many years behind them. [[13.50]] But it doesn't matter what the color of a candidate is, because that power, the political family that took the country uphill, obviously meant a background that was successful. What this political family should be like? Obviously, let me say, perhaps without selfishness, Christian Democratic values, as Fidesz and KDNP both claim to be so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-10	Instead of returning the Prime Minister's reply, I will give the floor to Antal Rogán in the ranks of the factions.
u2014-10-13-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the elections, because the conduct of the municipal elections was successful and problem-free, the electoral institutional system and the partly new municipal electoral law passed a good test. I would also like to thank the 100,000 volunteers who helped the Fidesz-KDNP candidates. They were part of a cooperation, and without them neither the team nor the Fidesz-KDNP candidates would have been so successful. Because success is clear, honourable Members, the vast majority of Fidesz-KDNP candidates have won. In each of the county assemblies Fidesz-KDNP finished in the first place, the Fidesz-KDNP candidates won in 20 out of 23 county-righted cities, István Tarlós won in Budapest as mayor, and the Fidesz-KDNP candidates also won in more than two thirds of the districts. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I think that you should be the first to learn from this because, of course, in a democracy, the opinion of the opposition is important, but perhaps we can agree on one thing: in a democracy, the voter's opinion is always the most important. In 2014, however, the voters give you a third warning, honourable Members, today or just yesterday, last night, I expected you to at least say a few critical words about yourself, honourable Members. But no! What are we listening to here in the House? Facing the flaws is nothing but the new threat, the hovering of the austerity package. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow left-wing Members are talking about a austerity package after the continuous starring of Lajos Bokros in the last two weeks. No way! Ladies and gentlemen, The problem is, you're serious about this kind of thing. This is no joke to you, and you're going to tell me what's really going on in your head. The two most important topics of the last year in this House, my fellow Members, were the reduction of the rent and the accountability of the banks. Real right-wing economic policy measures, my dear fellow Member Schiffer, accountability of banks and reduction of overhead. I think that there is a real social majority behind these, and there is real social support behind them, my honourable fellow Member Tobias, because it is the reduction of the rent and the accountability of the banks that leave more money to the people, and that the poorer families clearly benefit from it. Ladies and gentlemen, But what do you think of these, what do you think of the reduction of the rent and, say, the accountability of the banks, Lajos Bokros, your new star? He thinks the cost reduction is the most damaging step. Or, in the case of bank accountability, Lajos Bokros says that it is also extremely harmful, and, of course, the laws that we have made are without exception unconstitutional, their opinion is the same as that of the Banking Association. And that is the problem, fellow Members. You in this House, too, are constantly voting in favour of these laws when it comes to reducing the costs, accounting the banks. The only problem is they're always doing something about it in the background. They do when people in public life are raised to pedestals who are obviously thinking completely contrary. They are doing something about it in the institutions of the European Union, where they are constantly attacking it, honourable Members. And the voters are making an alliance with us today because they're conspiring with us and not with you because we represent the issues that are important to them. And the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that this cooperation is also open to you, there is only one thing to do: kick it, let us say, first of all, the old alliance with the banks. And in the institutions of the European Union, do so by standing up for Hungary instead of banks, and by saying everywhere in the European Parliament or even at the European Court of Justice that the accountability of banks is important, that is what the Hungarian people want, and you also ask that the institutions of the European Union accept the will of the Hungarian people here. I could start with that, I know that all the beginnings are difficult, but if you start with that, then I think it's going to be a positive step towards the electorate. So much for my fellow Members on the left, and one more thing I would like to say to Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the group, to the end. Dear Chief of Staff, If it's up to us, there's one thing you'll never do: you'll never take a Prime Minister's oath in this House. [[Delight and applause from the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-13-12	Once again, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2014-10-13-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, fellow Members, for being kind enough to pay attention to my brief speech opening today's session, and also thank you for responding to some of the points. I, if I may, would only address the issues that I consider important to the voters, and I would not be concerned with personal remarks right now. I think it is important that voters know that, contrary to what my fellow Member Schiffer has said, the greatest improvements have been made in Hungarian health care and Hungarian education in recent years. More than HUF 450 billion has been developed in Hungarian health care. This has never happened in Hungary, so much for the credibility of the LMP. In the education system there was a HUF 250-300 billion development, so much for the credibility of the LMP. I think it is important, Ladies and Gentlemen, to make it clear that we do not accept in this House that some of my fellow Members, especially people, are insulting. The comments that want to highlight public workers from other working people are insults. From the other side, it is contempt, contempt, and exclusion for people who are finally hard to work. We reject this either from Jobbik's ranks or from LMP's ranks. Ladies and Gentlemen, Similarly, foreign investment can, of course, be debated, but as you do, this is nothing more than an attack on the jobs of people working there. I would like to make it clear to both public workers and Hungarian people working in foreign companies that we will protect their jobs against opposition attacks and protect their job opportunities. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a result, we do not accept the proposal that public work should be seen as a social policy or part of social policy; we regard it as an employment policy, a full-fledged work, and we regard the people working there as people of full value. Ladies and Gentlemen, How should we react to the phenomenon of many or many times the socialists telling us what problems Hungarian society is suffering? Firstly, the way we can relate to this phenomenon is to clarify that it has been in this situation in a considerable part as a result of your work. I think it is important that, before we talk about anything about the future, and even about the present, the first and most important thing is that this country, or part of the country, is in a socially hopeless situation with left-wing governance, the Socialist Party's governance. The other thing we have to answer is that if the situation is so difficult and in many respects the situation of many people in Hungary is difficult, then why do these people vote for us? Why do we win the elections? Why the Christian Democratic People's Party and why the Fidesz receive people's trust? Why, in the fourth election, in the 2010 Parliament, in the 2010 municipalities, in the 14th Parliament and in the 14th self-governments, have we obtained two-thirds of the funding four times? What is the reason for this if the situation is so difficult? Obviously not because the situation is good, there are a number of difficult elements in the situation. Because people in a difficult situation are looking around in Parliament, listening to you, honourable Members, and you see that you can only hope that we will do something to improve their situation. If you want to help these poor, difficult people, there's only one thing you can do if you are consistent: support the government's policy. We're not expecting that, but we'd like that. Ladies and Gentlemen, I must reject that the assessment of the state of the government and the majority of the government should be painted in the mood of Franz József. No one's ever said everything's good here, everything's going well, and everything's gonna be okay with anyone, even ourselves. We say the opposite: there are a lot of problems, a lot of problems, and we still have a lot of work to do to achieve our goal. The only thing I can see from today's debate is that the kind of ideological thinking that characterizes you is ravaged by government policy, which is formulated in another world, in the world of reality and reality. [[14.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much for your comments. In the next period, I am asking for further determination and generosity against the opposition by the government coalition and the parliamentary fractions of KDNP and Fidesz. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A big round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-14	Dear Parliament, We will continue with the series of speeches before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the representative of the LMP, who will say what he has to say on the margins of the municipal elections. Here you go, Congressman. If I may request your patience for a few seconds...
u2014-10-13-15	Understood, yes, thank you.
u2014-10-13-16	... in order to keep your thoughts as quiet and as orderly as possible. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-17	Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor and thank you for the opportunity. Obviously, when we put it on the agenda, I didn't know that the Prime Minister was going to be talking about it, so I was prepared to thank our citizens working and participating in the elections for the work and participation that we have done on our part, on behalf of the LMP, in relation to the municipal elections. I must say that, at the same time, Parliament has to think about it, both the ruling party and the opposition parties, in two-thirds of the time, about the reason why the last elections had the least involvement of the municipal elections. What could be the reason why in a nice, sunny time, when it does not affect weather, when there is a stake in the election, people no longer feel like going to choose, and with the smallest participation background there is an election? In part, the Prime Minister raised questions to the Prime Minister's thoughts and responded to others. He explained how the government considered public works and public works to be a full-fledged man. What I didn't understand, while he was talking about it, was how, in his income, he might treat public workers as fourth-rate people, and a third-rate person, if that's what the government really thinks. In the same way, the Prime Minister asked why Fidesz wins with such confidence. For my part, I really respect this performance of Fidesz, I feel it is a great political achievement, but I do not feel that the lameness of the left-wing opposition is your success. I do not feel that if the other party was weak and disorganized, it would be merely your success, because you were only just better than someone, or you could choose a little better from the bad ones, and overall, the fact that a significant part of the country has been made existentially dependent on their system of employment is clearly creating this 1.5 million stable voters, but the question is how to maintain this. Along with Minister Sándor Fazekas, we were honoured yesterday to attend an organ worship in a Reformed parish, where the Reformed Bishop of Tisánd talked about the fact that Jesus Christ never told his followers that the road would be good, that it would be easy; he never talked about how everything would be smooth, that it would bring happiness and results; and that he did not believe in anyone who always only promises the good and trusts anyone who only presents the good. The Minister, too, and there was also a large part of the Fidesz candidates in Túrkeve, who apparently shared the Bishop's opinion. At the same time, I couldn't help but wonder if the Bishop's services didn't send a message to the Fidesz to show only the good, to tell only the good, but couldn't prepare for what would happen in the next three and a half years. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: We've won the election in the first place!]] for four and a half years or five years in the case of municipalities. All this opportunity that has been given to you is obviously a reason to acknowledge success. At the same time, I was pleased to hear today on Kossuth Radio that an election took place when everyone was satisfied. Practically all the parties who spoke expressed their satisfaction, everyone was happy and appreciated the success of the election. In practice, we can say in the LMP that we started in 1200 places in 2010 and obtained 54 seats in the municipalities, and after the break-up, we had 26 local governments two days ago, and now we have nearly doubled it, and we have doubled it with less start-ups. But that doesn't give me cause for satisfaction, because we're not in every county, we're not in every city, and I feel this is our responsibility to do it. Where there are LMPs, however, the voters understood that a human being could play a controlling role. They understood that one person can shed light on maladministration, and this is necessary. Among the successes of Fidesz, let me say, for example, the case of Tiszabó, where a candidate for Fidesz, who was convicted of crime and abuse in the first instance, was awarded a second degree decision. Let me tell you the results of the year, where the mayor could sell less than two acres of common land for 50 million forints, without wanting to buy land from anyone else. Let me tell you the results of Pétervasé, where the mayor has provided 80 million HUF for his own family in the last two years from the Leader applications. LMP will be there in these places, and you will be watching the government even if you don't have a representative. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: They didn't vote for him! You have to go to church more.]] I wish the elected Members good work. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-18	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás will answer. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-19	Thank you very much for the floor. It was a little felt in the speech that the Member had not thought beforehand that the Prime Minister would appreciate the result of the municipal election, and therefore I felt a bit chaotic in the speech. Although it is also an interesting assumption in itself that, on the day following the municipal elections, there should not be a Prime Minister's evaluation here in Parliament after an election which basically indicates whether the government is satisfied with the voter, whether Hungary is satisfied or not. After our mayors have won a convincing majority in this country, after having obtained a decisively absolute majority in the municipalities, I think it is easy to conclude from this that, indeed, the voters, Hungary, regard the direction in which we are going as a basically good direction. Obviously, we have a lot of work ahead of us, and we have a mandate to solve these tasks. The detour towards community service is a little difficult for me to understand. Did the congressman want to set up the community service? And is this a new element in the policy of LMP regarding community service? that public workers were addicted to voting for the local government because of their dependence on them, the Fidesz majority in the municipality. Dear Member, if these people were to live, not on public work, but on aid, and this has been the case in recent times, then some people have lived or abused the list of aids in terms of elections. Here people felt that they were being cared for by society, by the country, and that the municipalities would make sure that they could become the same citizens in their own settlements, so that they could feel their own settlements at home, because they would work for this settlement, for these settlements. That everyone is satisfied with the result of the municipal election, I think that this is a good sign, we are moving in the right direction. If everyone can be so satisfied with the result of the municipal election, then they can support the efforts that the government is making to ensure that not only the result of the election in this country is fully satisfied, but also the results achieved, the economic performance of the country and the conditions of living. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-20	Thank you. Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP will be following:, More Fidesz, with several poor titles. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-21	Yesterday, it became obvious. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Thank you very much for the word. ? Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] that the anti-popular power, which is now in Hungary, is not so unshakable [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you in 1919? ? Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] It's not as unshakable as some people think it is. Yesterday it became clear that the walls of the Fidesz party state are already cracking, in my opinion, and sooner or later it will fall on those who, by using their government authority, view our country as their own property, as a free robbery, or as an area of free robbery. Dear Friends! The people still have the right to choose on unequal orbits and distorting conditions, but they no longer have the right to know the facts, the causes of their poverty, the social policy of two thirds of them, and they have no opportunity to learn about their existence, their life, their future. [[14.10]] The Orbán regime, when it abolished the republic and democracy, reorganized the institutions in such a way as to conceal from the public the tragic social consequences of its government activities, including the previously free system of information and media. Consequently, only a few people could be known that all independent analyses, all sociological surveys show a serious increase in poverty and vulnerability in Hungary. As a result of the activities of the Orbán government, the number of poor has increased by more than 100,000 in the last year and the number of poor has increased by more than half a million during their four-year regency. Today, 3 million 300 thousand people live in poverty and social exclusion in Hungary. Today 43 percent of juveniles in Hungary are threatened by poverty and social exclusion, and one in three children lives in severe material deprivation. This is what government propaganda lies about the renewal of Hungary. Sociological research shows that today in Hungary more than four and a half million people have to live on less than the minimum living income, but the Orbán regime is not ashamed to make a success propaganda to deceive its own people. Prior to the Orbánist coup in 2010, the gap between the poor and the rich has never grown so brutally during democratic governments following the spirit of the social market economy. The income scissors have never been so open, and they have always become smaller and smaller in the previous government cycle of social inequality. The Orbán government continuously took away 90 percent of society and preferred the 10 percent that served them with the preference of the rich. Trafikot and land, budget support and state orders, tender funds and stadiums, tax reductions and headquarters were given to political vassals, vassals and collaborators, while the country's population either fled this country or is living in increasingly difficult conditions. There is not yet a country in Europe whose government would have committed such an insidious assassination against its own people. In one recent survey, social justice was examined on the basis of a total of 35 criteria. The problem is not that Hungary does not even approach Sweden or Finland, which is leading Europe. The problem is that we are becoming more and more backwards on this list, and there are only three countries behind us in Europe today. The cost of heating private swimming pools and garages is significantly reduced by a reduction in the cost of the rent for entrepreneurs' pockets, while the electricity or gas has been turned off for hundreds of thousands of years. The Orbán government has also reduced the supply of unemployed people, and public work is only for advertising purposes and forgery of statistics. Dear fellow Members, You know and I know that the President of the Central Statistical Office, Gabriella Vukovich, is completely unworthy and professionally unfit to perform his duties. Why don't you just relieve him? Do you think that by replacing the head of the information department, you can hide poverty data in Hungary? There are people in the Central Statistical Office who don't dare to do this face-to-face, who are ashamed of their own president! Dear Friends! During political campaigns, the Orbán government refers to people and citizens and is able to lie to their eyes that there is no austerity. Yet all their actions are strangling to the poor, and what happens to be not from robbery, not from government money, but from illegal robbery. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] or financed from the future, as they have done by einstanding private pension savings. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-13-22	From what I understand, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the honour of responding to what has been said. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The congressman's rhetoric reminded me of 133 days of history in Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: The time will come!]] Then they may have said such speeches as they are now. You brought that ghost back here, Congressman. You claimed, based on yesterday's results, that the Fidesz-KDNP government in Hungary favours 10 percent of people. Honourable Congressman, Math wasn't my favorite subject. [[Lajos Korózs: Mine is!]] But neither do you, I see. How is it possible, just like your logic, based on your thinking, that only 10 percent of what this government is doing is what it's doing, and, as you just said, the fourth election will be won with a two-thirds mandate. [[Lajos Korozs: 40 percent didn't vote, Bence!]] in the Parliament, and each county assembly has a majority of Fidesz-KDNP, most of them have an absolute majority, and Fidesz-KDNP gave the county assembly presidents in the previous term. So, both in municipal elections and in parliamentary elections, Fidesz-KDNP is the most trusted person. You call the 2010 election the 2010 Orbánist coup. Mr President, this is an indication of your perception of democracy and of its shortcomings, in my view, or misinterpretation. If then the socialists had received only one vote more than the Fidesz-KDNP, because they would have considered their activities worthy of this, then you could be in government. But it's not that they got one less, it's maybe a million, or I don't know exactly how much. But they got hundreds of thousands less than Fidesz-KDNP. That's why we're on the government. After the last four years, when this year's spring elections were held and the autumn municipal elections, people could now vote not only on their frustration with the MSZP, when you were forced into a very narrow area of Parliament's horseshoe, but also on the four-year results of Fidesz-KDNP and gave almost the same authority to Fidesz-KDNP. So while for some people that vote was about anti-MSZP, it was about Fidesz-KDNP's performance this year. And we have something to talk about in terms of performance, because if you look at only the most important numbers, for example, the number of people who work, it has grown from a large amount of three and a half million to four million 122 thousand people. Hundreds of thousands of people, who have jobs in the market or jobs in public work as a result of the policy of the last few years, certainly appreciate the operation of this government much more than you, who may not have noticed. For them, the allowance of 20-30,000 HUF is much less than the average public wage of 70,000 HUF. Obviously, this is another amount to be raised, but what you offered them before was a disgrace. But this wage is a wage for decent work, which is? Do we trust him? sooner or later, it will rise to the minimum wage level of some when they find jobs and even higher. You say that Fidesz-KDNP wanted to hide or conceal the social situation in relation to various statistics. Honourable Congressman, Consider the citizens of Hungary to be of age. The citizens of Hungary decide whether things are going well in the country, whether they go out on the street, talk to their friends, see their own situation, see how much they paid four years ago for their own subsistence costs, how much they earned, and see how much they now pay for their subsistence costs and how much they earn. That's how they make their decision, not based on data from the Central Statistical Office. It is obviously important and good for us to design, for you and for us, it is important if we see such KSH data, but citizens do not view it at KSH, because then KSH would decide who is the current governing party in Hungary and who is the opposition. People find that there was a socialist government that let the banks go free, did not try to keep them in check, and all it did in connection with foreign exchange lending was to get Gordon Bajnai and Ferenc Gyurcsány together to adopt a code of ethics by the banks, and we had the banks accounted for. Some will have a quarter, some will have a third decrease in their repayments in the problem that could have been one of the biggest sources of mass poverty in Hungary. And did we solve the social problem of the economic crisis by reducing the rent? can you see that not only in Hungary, but in Belgium, Spain and all countries, if you watch? in very few countries, market employers can also afford to raise their wages in relation to their employees. If we want to protect people from mass poverty? and apparently, although we have reduced personal income tax, we have introduced family-type taxation, leaving a total of HUF 800 billion for families in four and a half years, but will the wages not increase as much as before the crisis? That's why we had to reduce the cost of living, so we had to move on to the policy of reducing the costs to protect Hungarian people from mass poverty. We've done it, even if [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] I'm looking at the drug register, even the cost of textbooks, in several areas. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-13-24	Next up is Péter Harrach, head of the KDNP faction. He is 70 years old and speaks with the title of Christian democracy in Hungarian public life. Here you go. [[14.20]]
u2014-10-13-25	Mr President, Dear House, I chose this topic so that they would not say that every tap had an election going on; I would now open another tap and talk about an anniversary, exactly 70 years ago, on October 13, 1944. What happened then? It was then that the Christian Democratic People's Party was established, which is the predecessor of the KDNP, and which goes back to historical roots such as the Christian social movement. Allow me a few sentences on this. Rerum novarum was published in 1891, which established this movement, as it acknowledged the right to organise and protect workers. We have three great names to mention in the history of the Christian social movements: Sándor Giesswein, Ottokar Prohászka and Jenő Kerkai, the latter founded the KALOT movement in 35 which had more members than all political parties combined today, counted half a million members. This organization and the EMSO, which formed next to it, represented a movement that was not in fact classified as political, since it was more of a left-wing effort? Land distribution, a proposal for social measures? But, of course, it didn't belong in his idealism. Did August 31, 1947, the day of the election come when the Democratic People's Party? which evolved from these movements, so it had a large social base? He gained 16.5 percent, which was then the representation of the second largest parliamentary party. Let us consider that this was the time of the Blue Ticket elections, but we managed to achieve this result. Of course, during the Rákosi era, the party disbanded itself, and I have to remember that to date we have pride in the fact that no Member has become a traitor, and there were those who were forced to emigrate, some whose way of life was broken in two, and, of course, one who went to prison for a long time; for the longest time, for 19 years, one of the Members sat down. During the revolution of 56 the party was re-established, and Sándor Keresztes and Mihalics Vid formulated their petition addressed to Prime Minister Imre Nagy. Of course, after the Soviet military invasion on 4 November, he had to cease his pro-party activity. But in 89 the Christian Democratic People's Party was rebuilt, and Sándor Keresztes played a major role in this. When we talk about an organization, the Christian Democratic People's Party, this organization is very important, because it is a carrier of something, but more important than that is the idea it represents, and this is the Christian Democrat or rather the Christian social idea. To continue with the story, the KDNP was also present in the system-shifting Antall government, but the sad fate of the right-wing parties of the regime change reached this party, and there was a time when it looked like it had to shut down its activities permanently. However, thanks to László Varga, former Speaker of Parliament at that time, this party was able to recommence itself as a member of an alliance which today spoke of a two-thirds majority of the alliance. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] achieves the goal of the Christian Social and Christian Democratic idea. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-26	State Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond again. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Few parties or even any party can say about themselves here in Parliament, which has a democratic past, that it is 70 years old in Hungarian politics. They were Christian Democrats in Hungarian politics 70 years ago, they are now, which is why we have reason to believe that this idealism, this world of thought, goes far beyond people and far beyond organizations. Therefore, probably in 70 years' time, if it is still to be accepted, which of the present ideas worlds or even parties will continue to preserve their innocence from dictatorships, but in 70 years' time it will be Christian democracy, because it is indeed the only party that is here in Parliament as a historical party, as the current successor of the former DNA, and represents a Christian Democratic value world that many of us, of course, remember in the first place the role of religiousism, obviously the social teaching of the Christian churches, the Christian Democratic Party is always trying to implement here in Parliament. There were two attempts at XX. In the century, there were two attempts to create an anti-christical state, to drive Christian values out of politics, one of which the Nazis tried to do with anti-christism, anti-christianism, and the other with the Soviet dictatorship, the communist dictatorship. We have seen the terrible consequences of both anti-church states and political arrangements over the past 20th century. In the century. However, the Christian democracy is here among us today, and perhaps this is the political direction that is here to protect the original meaning of words, which seeks to respect human rights as human dignity, which considers tolerance important as accepting differences, but not special respect from being different from the average, and how much KDNP is still trying to work in this Parliament and politics in accordance with the original direction. Does KDNP believe that policy should not be just about redistribution rates? as represented by KDNP in the previous period? , but there is also a place in politics for moral issues such as justice, fairness and fairness; it is not just a set-up of budgetary tables, it is not only a role of Parliament's legislation to carry out official tasks, it is also a matter of substance and morality, because when we look at the situation of a country, it is influenced in many respects by the different economic indicators, but mostly by the internal morality of society. After all, two thousand years ago, many lived in a very low degree of poverty, many still live in conditions that were about two thousand years ago in some, say, African, poorer areas, while others now became even richer than those rich at that time. For this reason, technical progress has not fully reduced the differences between the poor and the rich in modern states, but, in fact, it has made it even bigger if we look at it from a historical perspective. At the same time, Christian Democratic neighborly love, what we call solidarity in politics, is that which, as an internal morale, can serve the happiness of society, the common good. Thus, the common good cannot be served by KDNP, according to the Christian Democrats, only with financial issues, only economic measures, but only by public law, if an internal morale is strengthened in society, it can serve people's happiness. It is important to ask these moral questions in the following areas. Obviously, KDNP's policy will therefore always be somewhat more conflicting and scratchy than that of other parties. Today, when we see a debate in Belgium on the euthanasia of children, for example, we can see how Europe is separated from the Christian values that have created its identity, because in a Swede, a Greek, a Portuguese and an Irish there are few such things, but it is Christianity that connects these countries. Now, when we see that the Christian identity of the whole of Europe has been weakened in recent decades, and in some German cities, saria police have already been set up, and the uniformed and marching formations there call for the imposition of Muslim law from the German population who lived there for several centuries, we can see that this kind of policy, this kind of European orientation, has not led to a good result, we can say that it leads to a dead end, and that strengthening Europe's Christian identity, the return to the roots of Christian Democratic politics, is what Europe's future stands in, it can make Europe a continent that is growing in soul and soul. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2014-10-13-28	Thank you. The last one in the ranks of the leaders of the factions is next to the betterman, Ádám Mirkóczki. That's what happened yesterday. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As many people have said before, the first word from me is obviously thanks. Thank you to all Hungarian citizens who considered it important to exercise their constitutional fundamental rights and who thought it important to break a wand and thus interfere with the future of their own destiny. On behalf of myself and on behalf of the entire Jobbik, I congratulate all elected Members, Mayors, whether it be the municipal, county assembly or small settlement. We wish you good work and effective work, of course. However, participation is talkative. Since 2006, it can be said that, in essence, participation has been decreasing by a few percent from election to election, which is a criticism of the political elite at all times. I think that you and, above all, the governments that are usually Regent have a role to play here, and you cannot do this as a pride in the window or in the form of an opinion to the electorate, so to speak. Does this mean that what some people do in Hungarian public life, in Hungarian politics, more and more voters are fed up with this, they feel that it doesn't make sense? You think it's wrong, but a lot of people think it doesn't make sense? to participate in the elections. I think we need to learn from this. And what did we see yesterday? And what could be the reason why so many people turn away from the elections? Obviously, a campaign based on despicable filth is a key reason why more and more people are turning away. And I know that you have won the election, we are aware, we congratulate you, we wish you a successful job, but I would like to give you a little shade of the joyful eulogy you have said, because there is another side of the medal. And right now, I don't want to mention the distortions of your electoral system, but I'd rather focus on everyday life, what you've been doing during the campaign. I could probably start with the left, but it doesn't make sense. They became their own criticisms or cartoons, and we actually saw a run, there's no point in talking about it. However, what you have often allowed yourself directly or indirectly in certain settlements, I think, is going beyond all limits. When it's regent, it's local government leaders, MPs, government members...? respect for the exception, of course, I do not try to generalize, but it is a very serious experience in the national context that people and voters have been threatened with blackmail, threats, existential vulnerability, employees of institutions maintained by local governments, employees of educational or social institutions maintained by local governments, or even regular municipal workers, and, if the word has been spoken so many times, then yes, public workers as well. I don't think you can be proud of that. The fact that I'm telling you and I'm sure you'll say the opposite, and you'll deny it, you know what I'm talking about. You're aware of that, so you're going to have to admit this. And here, too, is special respect and special thanks to the man who, despite all this, has broken a wand, not with you, but with any other opposition programme or even a representative. And thank you, of course, for giving us the Jobbik? I'm talking about the data of Vaktas.hu? One million 200 thousand votes, which we are proud of because we have received this program-driven campaign specifically for real problems, offering a real alternative. We didn't agree to the games they started in a lot of places against us. We didn't start a personal smear campaign, we didn't start buying votes, and if I'm talking about buying votes, shouldn't they be proud that Gypsy was considered to be cheap voting machines all over the country again in Hungary? All over the country! We didn't buy them and we didn't make them travel, and they obviously did it where a Russian roulette was expected, where the outcome of the election was questionable. So thank you once again to all Hungarian citizens who have exercised their right to vote, and in particular to the 1 million 200 000 voters who voted for a fair campaign and a decent programme, an alternative to the future. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-30	If no one wishes to answer on behalf of the government, I give the floor to Lajos Kósa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-31	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, There is something surprising, however, that we have passed the eighth election that the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association has won since the autumn of 2006; the eighth and the organisations that have been running against us or competing for votes have basically said the same thing almost literally since 2006. And the only lesson they learn from all the choices is that even louder, even harder, maybe a little bit different left, so they say the same thing in a choir, and then they tear it apart, say it in three choirs, and then they put it together again to say the same things in a choir, and then they take it apart again, and then they pick it up again that you can't follow it anymore. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] But, my dear left, shouldn't we think a little bit about whether it's not the problem of saying the wrong things and representing the wrong ones? Even after eight consecutive elections, it is difficult to conclude with common sense that children, we are very good, we are absolutely right, that is what must be said, because the Hungarian electorate is buying this. No, you don't! Why don't you think about maybe getting what you're saying closer to reality? Of course, for the socialists, the facts, the world of numbers are alien terrain, they find it difficult to understand, they move in it badly, but what we have just heard from your lead speakers, again, they say to you that the same stereotypes are already a hundred times proven lies that are completely contrary to the direct experience of the few million people who are still going to vote. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] Shouldn't we, dear fellow Members, conclude that we must do something completely different? Of course, I don't want to give advice to the left, but it's quite astounding. I think after the 9th, 10th, 11th election, they'll say the same thing we've just heard from Lajos Korózs. Don't you realize that everyday experience is completely different? That voters use their brains and their everyday experiences, and that's in stark contrast to what you're saying? Of course, the dog doesn't mind. What do we do now? After all, it is not really our duty to advise the socialists or to give them advice, but we fearlessly draw attention to the fact that one day after the election, he said here in Parliament? The fact that Fidesz only has a political majority, but by the way, the multitude of voters do not support it, is still astounding as it was kindly said, Mr Tobias Group Leader. I would add that in this debate, there were still a couple of shocking statements, although we have also seen this: Jobbik is now telling us for the long time that Fidesz is actually implementing a completely better government programme under the influence of politics. [[Noise in Jobbik's benches. ? Dóra Dóra Dúró: Unfortunately, he's insane!]] Because, no, the thing is that everything that Fidesz did was made up a little earlier by Jobbik, which, by the way, is okay, because if you look at the voters, if they're satisfied with government policy, then it doesn't matter who invented the reduction. The point is, we did it. No matter who made up the bank account, the point is that we did it. But Jobbik doesn't just put up old records in this. What you have just said, Deputy Group Leader, let me also reject on behalf of the Gypsies in Hungary, because to accuse an entire ethnic group of being helped to win by electoral abuses, this is nothing more than a primitive incitement, which we must not tolerate, because otherwise it is capable of causing intolerance and strife among the Hungarian people, which is unfair, and precisely from a party which, in principle, is politics on a national basis, absolutely to be rejected. [[14.40]] And yet, dear fellow Members, it is not possible to deny that 1130 mayors of Fidesz have been elected, and yet, in terms of the proportion of votes cast to the mayors, we have now achieved the best result, better than on 6 April and 25 May. We would like to thank the Hungarian voters for this. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-32	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-33	Honourable Parliament! After listening with interest to the Prime Minister's speech and then to the various responses to the reactions of my fellow Members and my State Secretary's colleagues from my fellow Members in opposition, do I consider it necessary? I take it after the speech before the last agenda? If we were to drop a few sentences on the future, on the issue of local governments, partly on the basis of the suggestion of my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa. Before I do this, as a man who has won the mayor's mandate three times, let me draw the losers' attention to the fact that the worst way to say on the part of the losers is to say that they were excellent, but the voters were threatened, misled, deceived, and the voters were stupid anyway. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] I think that the opposition is making a serious mistake, that if it insults Hungarian voters, it will make a serious mistake if those voters who have voted for the governing parties are violated. I ask the opposition parties to respect the voters who awarded Fidesz and KDNP their trust in the elections. It's the least we can do on behalf of all of us and we can all expect. Let us respect the ability of voters to think and assume that voters can navigate. First, they can decide whether cases go well or not in a community. The accusation by my colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, which actually accuses the government of nothing less than keeping hundreds of thousands of people in conscious poverty, manipulating the public, is contempt for people and not a disadvantage to the government, my fellow Member. This is how you govern the country, by keeping part of the country on social aid, so that they can influence it politically. As Secretary of State for Social Affairs, you have a heavy personal responsibility [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame! ? Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. Intercoms from the ranks of Fidesz, among others: That's right!]] Therefore, he could draw from his personal political experience in his last speech, when he might think that social assistance or social support could buy votes in this country. That is for you to think, as you were a great master of this practice, my fellow Member. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] As I would like to reject, on behalf of public workers, that anyone from Jobbik or LMP would accuse them of being exposed to community service and community service, community service. First of all, you should know, fellow Members, that if you had the concept of real life, about half of the public workers have been involved in the public work programme in the last ten years. About 50 percent of the people employed in public work today are new workers, who should be forgiven, but today, at the time of the municipal elections, they would have the opportunity to work on the labour market. Hungarian business representatives complain that they do not get a job in the countryside during seasonal and seasonal work; the Minister for Agriculture complains that there is no one to remove the apple; my fellow Members complain that they are not getting the right person for seasonal work, so public work is now an option, especially in these months. No one is obliging workers to work in public, as many of them could work in the free labour market, but they do not. It's an insult to the community community that you're accusing them of being politically biased. The same applies to Gypsy in Hungary. I ask Jobbik to respect the Gypsies in Hungary, the Hungarian public workers, the poor people in Hungary, because there is no difference between people and people in this country because of the fact that they are gypsies, because they are poor or public workers, the same people as you, my fellow Member. [[Did Lajos Kósa say that?]] That's our political conviction. Finally, allow me to draw attention to the fact that we would like to give every elected mayor and municipality the opportunity to prepare their economic programme in the coming months. This economic programme will not be classified on the basis of political conviction... [[Forebod Novak: Late pressed button! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] This economic programme, which the local authorities have to prepare, will not be classified from a political point of view, but from an economic point of view. We will not look at the political convictions of which body of representatives, but we will be looking at whether the local economic programme is capable of creating economic growth and jobs. All municipal authorities are considered partners, respecting the results of local elections. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-34	I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I call on notary Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-10-13-35	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; László Kiss, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Sándor Burány, MSZP; István Simicskó, KDNP; István Apáti, Jobbik; László Kucsák, Fidesz. László Varju, independent; László Kiss, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP and Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2014-10-13-36	Dear House, President János Áder sent the Parliament his transcript of the termination of State Secretary's mandates and the appointment of new State Secretarys. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2014-10-13-37	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Law 218. On the basis of Paragraph 1 of the Act, Dr. Marcel Bíró, Minister of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, was relieved of his office with effect from 4 October 2014, while Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and Kttv. 215. On 5 October 2014, Balázs Kohut was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys. Law 55. On the basis of Article 4 of the Act, Monika Balatoni, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 4 October 2014. In addition, Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and Article 9 (j) of the Law and Article 9 (j) of the Law of the Republic of Hungary) and Article 9 (j) of the Statute of the European 52. István Ájgyártó was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade with effect from 5 October 2014, with effect from 4 October 2014. Budapest, 3 October 2014 Sincerely: János Áder
u2014-10-13-38	Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State. I wish you successful work and success in your new assignment. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Judicial Committee is 1 and 2/2014-2018. IUB has adopted ad hoc resolutions. You can find these on the website, my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time, the speaker's speeches will be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to explain this.
u2014-10-13-39	The Parliament was the House Committee on 9 October 2014? concerning certain reports submitted in the previous cycle and not yet discussed? in its proposal, in order to depart from the provisions of the House Rules of the Decision in order to decide, by a single vote, on the classification of those accounts as closed without discussion, that, within one hour of the decision to derogate from the House Regulations of the Decision, the head of any political group or at least five independent Members may request in writing that no more than two reports be decided separately by the Parliament.
u2014-10-13-40	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules on the basis of the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal by 141 votes in favour, 8 against and no abstentions. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, It is now 14:51 a.m., an hour for all those who wish to put forward a separate vote. Dear Parliament, As no one has tabled a motion to change the agenda, we are now deciding on the agenda recommendation put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, as the Speaker of Parliament, the House Rules of Decision 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr Tamás Sneider K/1309. I rejected the written question of Mr Miklós Seszták, who was addressed, because the motion did not fall within the remit of the Minister for National Development. Dear House, Now, at 2:52 p.m., we'll proceed to interpellation negotiations. István Hiller, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Rectors and Chancellors! Like what? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-10-13-41	Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Your Honour, Secretary of State. The latest amendment to the Higher Education Act in the state higher education institutions created the chancellor position. In addition to a number of other tasks and powers, the Chancellor has virtually full power in the institutions in all matters concerning financial affairs. Without its signature, no activity having a financial base shall actually be allowed to continue. At the same time, the rector's office remains in higher education institutions. According to a centuries-old tradition, the Rector chooses the institution from among his own professors, and during his term of office, the Rector controls the institution as an inalienable element of university autonomy. As a result of the chancellor's position and the chancellor's powers as defined by the amendment of the law, we have two-pole leadership in our universities and colleges and two-headedness in the administration. In addition to the fact that, in my opinion, all this has been achieved in such a way that the autonomy of the university is impaired, I must point out that at the moment, at the beginning of the 2014-15 academic year, there is complete uncertainty in the institutions, Mr Secretary of State. Despite the original ideas and declarations, the chancellor's applications have not been carried out in time; there is no chancellor in one institution, one university or college. So the amazing situation arose that, at the beginning of the academic year, the rector controls the institution with full authority, and then, obviously, during the academic year, once the chancellor is appointed, and then, to a large extent, he, the Chancellor, takes over. In a school year, it's a total mess. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State to give me one university, academic activity, task that does not cost money, in Hungarian, not the signature of the Chancellor. I would also ask the Secretary of State to respond to his opinion on the emerging dual governance in the institutions of Hungarian higher education, which, by the way, is nowhere in Europe. Some have chancellors; some have rectors, but no such division of tasks or powers in any country, in the German language area you often refer to as examples, or in Germany. They're there, but mostly there were chancellors, and there are rectors, but they're not in one institution. I would also like to know, Mr Secretary of State, when, according to the government's plans, the Chancellors will be appointed. That is why the law on higher education had to be amended at the beginning of the summer, so that you could appoint the Chancellors on time by 1 September. There was only one place they couldn't appoint him. Now they say he'll be appointed by mid-October. Here we are on October 13th, there is no chancellor in one state higher education institution. When is it? When will the appointment take place, Mr. Secretary? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-13-42	Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When we talk about the management of universities, the money of universities, we have to look at it with great caution, because this is a matter of public money, in particular, money that is passed on from taxpayers' tax forints, companies' and private people's tax forints to universities, and that is the money that is the main source of money. So each of you can be generous about your own money, and you can afford a lot of things in farming, that's his heart's right, but when we look at the management of universities here, the main requirement of this is not only to be regular, but also to be useful. And in recent years, you've had a lot of examples, and I think I can tell you how long it's been since there's been a farm that doesn't exactly meet these requirements. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] When we talk about the introduction of the chancellor system and their relationship with the rectors, the rectors, who run the universities in a practical manner every day, have made less critical voices than you, or other Members or politicians who are even more critical than you. Their opinion was to wait for the chancellor system to be put in place, to see if the chancellors were able to make the best of the system laid down in the new Higher Education Act, but after a few months or a few years of experience, they would be able to tell us whether we were actually able to make the best of it, whether the chancellors were able to make the best of it from 1 September this year. So when we look at the opinion of the practicing university leaders, they are far from saying a cornered resolution like politicians, they say that the test of pudding is eating, in this system there is the possibility of a much more efficient management of universities. And if you look at the duality of dual management, economic governance, content and professional management, this is often the case even in the corporate sphere, when the owner's representative pays more attention to the good conduct of finances, the correct conduct of them, and the economic conduct of them. As regards the date, the Prime Minister also said in a radio interview last Friday, which we said earlier, that these appointments would be made by the end of October in cases where he was an appropriate candidate. Where more people have applied, but the content of the applications has not been of sufficient quality, or the candidate has not been sufficiently prepared, then, of course, another round will be needed, since we do not wish to appoint a qualified Chancellor. In recent years, both Kehi and the SAO have examined the management of universities a lot, and this is what has been outlined? if you look at PPP schemes or other university farming areas? that although the rector is likely to be very prominent in scientific life among the other professors of the university, but that someone who achieves outstanding results in scientific life or in the organisation of science may not have the same ability in financial and management matters. Therefore, the greatest help for the rector is to remove this burden from the shoulders of someone else who is more concerned with the management approach in this area. If we look at the practice, we can see rather strange examples of personal payments, commission fees or settlements. For example, in the case of universities in Budapest, there was a person who gave the employees a supplement by requiring them to perform the task they were given to do during working hours. So he was supposed to do two tasks in parallel during working hours, and he got two salaries for that. It also appeared at universities in Budapest and rural areas, and it was also stated in the press that the institution of the application was often used as a reward. There was a university in Hungary where 70 percent of the workers received an income supplement, and this does not really represent the image of the target task, but rather the possibility of a general wage increase. There is a university, you know, that pays a lease fee to the company for a new university block built in its own territory, and until it pays the full construction fee, while it doesn't own the building, and the rent it pays is included in the lease of the floor space, so the university pays twice the land lease of a building. It is also clear from these that contracts have been concluded in the university world, which have been well-known, have been extremely detrimental to universities, have served the inefficient management of public funds, and that is why it is necessary to introduce chancellors. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] All I ask of the congressman is as much as the rectors have told me to wait for the chancellors to work and then get their opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2014-10-13-44	Thank you. Welcome, fellow Members. I will ask Mr. István Hiller if he will accept the answer.
u2014-10-13-45	I don't accept it, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I do not accept it because it seems to me that you do not actually have any idea of higher education. The Higher Education Act has been amended in a mess since 2011. In four years, they consume the third secretary of state dealing with higher education, who puts down a concept from time to time; then they always tell the university leaders, the rectors, that we will see that the test of pudding is eating? It's just that there's nothing to eat. So they can't try your pudding, because by the time they eat it, they'll have a new pudding, and it won't all go away. One thing is consistent: there is constant withdrawal of funds from higher education institutions. In 2010, the state aid amounted to HUF 183 billion, and now we are now at roughly 130 billion. No money, no chancellor. That's why I don't accept it, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-46	Thank you. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "KLIK" as the government. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró shall have the floor.
u2014-10-13-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the operation of the KLIK is essentially a scandal catalog, and it seems that after more than a year and a half it has been definitively proven that this construction is inoperative. In the absence of sufficient preparation, the state's reservation took place in a hasty manner, and we have seen since then that the system itself is flawed, which has been compounded by unprofessional human decisions. It has now become clear to everyone that it is not about the success story or the safe functioning of the government, the solution to financing problems. One of the main points of reference of the whole concept was that the differences arising from the economic situation of the municipalities would be reduced, but on the other hand, the pro-government representatives in the press boasted that the municipalities that could do so would continue to offer their institutions more opportunities. This seems to be necessary, since at the end of the summer the government had to decide on an emergency aid of nearly HUF 20 billion, because the KLIK was not effective enough, as it was revealed during an internal screening. Therefore, the difference between the institutions will hardly decrease, so the CLIK will not solve this problem, but it will cause several others. For example, in the case of colleges and secondary schools in Budapest, for example, where the municipalities are the managers, and most of the children come to the institution from other settlements and other districts, the municipality is not interested in developing exactly what its inhabitants hardly use. These institutions and, by the way, the local authorities themselves are losing this transformation, which many institutional leaders and educators are complaining about, which is why they have ongoing difficulties. All these problems are only related to the operation of the CLIK; in this interpellation, I did not mention the issue of textbooks, the injustices that occurred after the reform of the working order of teachers, or the scandals of institutional appointments that make the situation worse. At the same time, we do not even see a clear concept on the part of the government, and it is clear that they themselves do not know how to correct their mistakes. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why they fail to see their mistakes and why they do not have a long-term plan, their concept of the future of public education. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-48	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-10-13-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Did I break into Jobbik's election program from 2010, the public education chapter? You probably wrote it, so the words might be familiar? Do you or do you write that you are creating a school administration system, that the country is being divided into school administration districts? Is that what we call the study district? , and here the tasks of the Ministry of Education are delegated according to their territorial hand, authority and other tasks, and they will carry out statutory educational institutional tasks from here, from these educational administration districts, which is surprisingly similar to the teaching system created by Fidesz-KDNP. Before the agenda, Gábor Vona said that Fidesz-KDNP is making good suggestions for you. You say that the KLIK is one of the government's biggest mistakes, while one of them is, if not in the district of education, a similar system has been described in their own election program. So, I think, when you put these criticisms so sharply, you'd better think about how much your own ideas have come together with this or not. You say that one of the KLIK's flaws is the lack of interest in the renewal and maintenance of colleges, because it is maintained by municipalities who are not elected, their parents do not vote for students who live in that dorm, live there for ten months from the year, and therefore the KLIK is to blame for the fact that the dorm is not in good condition. I would like to ask you, honourable Member, how long has the KLIK existed, say, two years ago and in the period before that, what was the difference in this system. After all, have young people ever lived in colleges who do not live in that settlement? Is that why you live in college? It's true now, but you can't blame the KLIK for that. Of course, this has become an opposition slogan that if something goes wrong in the field of education, it is because the KLIK has been introduced, and so dorms have a bad condition. But there has been no substantial change here, and there have been other settlements in the dorms before, even now. Now, please, don't put that on KLIK, because this has nothing to do with the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center, it hasn't affected it, it hasn't changed the problem with colleges you've just told me about. In general, it can be said about KLIK that this institutional system can be considered to be faulty and misdirected, but in the overwhelming majority of cases, it only reveals problems that have been there for four years, even five years, ten years in Hungary, but 3200 in 3200 settlements, in a total of 6,000 institutions? since 6 thousand institutions, 6 thousand sites belong to KLIK? , they appeared scattered throughout the country, and if 30-40 places in this country did so, because there was no central register, no central control, no central control, so they didn't even surface. If you want to ask something about the education system now, it is enough to ask the KLIK one question and you can answer every school in Hungary. Earlier, 3,200 municipalities had to target their letters and collect information. Obviously, it's a lot easier to see what the problems need to be improved, which is why we created it. We have seen that this system needs to be improved qualitatively, because the knowledge of young people is the most important capital, which can serve the country's growth in the long term. That is why we need to create a chance for everyone, in smaller, larger, richer, poorer settlements as well. This kind of transformation, this type of quality improvement can not be from 3200 centers, it can be a process managed by 3200 municipalities, but from KLIK headquarters. And that the KLIK received a HUF 20 billion extra funding, I think as an education politician, you should be happy about that, too. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the fact that more goes to students, and the most important thing is that the annual increase in teachers' wages in January and September contributes to the evaluation of the pedagogical profession. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-50	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2014-10-13-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, I only have a minute, so I can react very briefly to your slides. I am pleased that you have admitted that our 2010 election programme is being filmed on a daily basis and that it is also being used to respond to an interpellation, and I am very, very pleased to do so, but what you described in it is not equal to what you have done. The humiliation of local governments is not included in our electoral programme, and unfortunately that is what your action meant. The fact that the KLIK is not at fault for something, of course, is not the KLIK's fault for everything, but the promises you made about it, namely that standards will be balanced between schools, unfortunately this has not happened, and it can be seen that because of a systemic problem, they will never happen again. The 3200 ways they've solved the problems so far, at least they've solved them somehow, and the municipalities have managed to take care of their own school. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They cared about their own schools. Unfortunately, in many cases the CLIK does not do so, so I cannot accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.10]]
u2014-10-13-52	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 33 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind shall have the floor.
u2014-10-13-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to a recent Commission report, small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary are in a lot of trouble, and I have to add that if they are in trouble, the whole country is in trouble, because they can give work to fewer people in this sector. The sector itself is shrinking, there are fewer in numbers, and their performance is less. The logical question for us is whether this is the case and whether the Hungarian government is doing something or doing something to prevent it from happening. What we see is that when it comes to multinationals on the other side and multinationals specifically engaged in automotive and related industries, they also spend public money with two hands. There are the hundreds of billion-dollar grants that are given to these companies in the form of direct aid or development tax incentives, and we know clearly that they are most of the strategic partners. When you look at how much support these multinationals receive, you get a number that they get ten times as much as a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise. This means that Fidesz-KDNP is worth ten times the amount of support given to a multinational as a grant to a small and medium-sized enterprise in this country. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is the SMEs who are taking on the fate of Hungarian people, who are here with us even when the wagon is going well, but also when it goes bad, and they are the ones who are taking this country on their backs. Does the government seem to have such a monomaniac support culture, one-sidedly flowing towards the automotive industry, which? Do I draw the attention of honourable Secretary of State? a misguided direction from multiple sides. On the one hand, there is the Hungarian food industry at the production and processing level. If the money was flown here, there would be good quality Hungarian food that could be consumed in the region. For example, there are small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with or wanting to deal with the renewables industry. And if we finally isolated this country and, let's say, not heated the Hungarian streets with Russian gas, then Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises could also be supported in the building sector, in the building material industry. Or if you are already thinking about vehicles, Hungarian buses, Hungarian trolleybuses, Hungarian trams could all be developed. I ask, Mr Secretary of State, why is it that Fidesz-KDNP is ten times as important to a multi-level job creation as it is to an SME as to a small and medium-sized enterprise, why you maintain this wrong direction. Thank you.
u2014-10-13-54	Thank you. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2014-10-13-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for asking. Given that you have given me the opportunity to exchange a few words on an important matter, given that you consider the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Hungarian economy to be important, and we also consider it important, if you will allow me, then perhaps I will start with the hope of mutual understanding, because at least there is a common base, a common basis on which we can both stand. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You, together with Mr Interpelled, and in one of the interpelliers, are very concerned with the report by the European Commission, which your group leader was also kind enough to mention in his speech before the agenda, when the situation of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises between 2008 and 2013 is being dealt with. You are right that the situation is worse in 2013 than in 2008. At the same time, if you look at the internal dynamics of these figures, you can see that there was a huge setback in 2009 and that the situation has improved year after year since 2009. I do not mean to say that we are satisfied with this because we are not satisfied, just as you are not satisfied, but I think that the processes may not be worth denying. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the automotive industry has become the flagship of the Hungarian economy, but I do not think that this is a phenomenon that we should be fighting. I think we need to use this phenomenon, especially given that the production value of vehicle production in the first seven months of this year amounted to almost HUF 4 000 billion, which represents a 29.4 percent increase compared to last year, which now accounts for 28 percent of manufacturing production, and now more than 137 thousand people are working in this sector, which represents a 23.3 percent increase compared to last year. In any case, I see this as a joyful development, all the more so, because the automotive industry will help us achieve our two very important economic policy objectives, both to be a production centre and to attract more R &amp; D and high-tech capacity to Hungary. You were talking about the importance of taking into account other industries as well. You are absolutely right about this, but please also point out that, through the automotive supplier's background industry, from the textile industry through steel casting, it gives many industries the opportunity to develop in Hungary, not to mention that automotive companies are the leading drivers of cooperation with universities in research and development and vocational training with secondary schools. I would also like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that investment promotion aid to large companies is not distributed in the form of a split-off, but has an appropriate set of rules that we had to approve with the European Union. However, I would also like to draw your attention to what we see as a very serious source of growth in the export development of small and medium-sized enterprises, so allow me to inform you of two measures. With a bolder lending policy, Eximbank must do everything possible to increase the number of small and medium-sized enterprises that are able to successfully appear on export markets from 2500 to 12 000; and have we recently agreed with the EIB that, after the last successful joint programme of EUR 100 million, we will now launch a joint programme of EUR 200 million, of which 70 percent? So 70 percent of the EUR 200 million? we will use it to support the external market for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much for letting me tell you all this, and thank you very much for agreeing that small and medium-sized enterprises play a very important role for the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-56	I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the answer [[For signal:]] ? I am asking Congressman Sallai.
u2014-10-13-57	Thank you very much, Minister, for your correct reply. It is rare to hear from the pro-government side several times that you are right. So thank you very much for agreeing on some things, but we cannot accept the answer. The reason for this is obviously that we are not objecting to why you are giving so much money to a sector, but to why you do not give much more to the sector that we consider not only important, but that we consider it to be the most important. As you know, 70 percent of employees in the economic sector are employed by small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, and therefore this proportion should also be achieved in support policy. The problem is not that you support the car industry, but that, in addition, the small and medium-sized enterprise sector is doomed to decay in the absence of subsidies. That should change. The government's direction of export production for small and medium-sized enterprises is of concern because, overall, the aim of achieving economic sustainability at national level would be to meet the needs of the internal market and not to depend on external economic factors. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-58	I understand that Congressman did not accept the answer. I'm asking the National Assembly if you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 100 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. 112? Helping in a unit? It's an address. Congressman Péter Agh shall have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2014-10-13-59	Dear Secretary of State, Until 112 came out, emergency numbers differed across the European Union. In the event of an accident, disaster, crime, citizens could reach emergency services in national emergency services. By introducing 112, assistance has become much faster and more efficient, and despite the fact that national numbers are still available, it is enough to call a single emergency number wherever we travel within Europe. The 112 emergency number has been operating in the European Union since 1991. The European Council intends to provide citizens of the Union with uniform contacts with emergency bodies providing assistance on the basis of the same principles in all Member States. 112 can be called almost all over Europe, so it can be called free of charge in Hungary. On 7 June 2011, the government decided to build a single, free-to-air emergency system in Hungary. In European countries where the single emergency response system is already in place, the management of deployment is more cost-effective, and service organisation and management are simplified. If a problem occurs with one of the emergency centres, the system will still operate smoothly. If a call is made from a border settlement, units from neighbouring countries may also be available. On 9 September 2014, the Minister of the Interior inaugurated a call reception centre for the Single Emergency System in Miskolc. The investment included, among other things, the development of the new system, the development of the computer network and the development of IT. With the help of a single emergency response system, which is currently being built in Hungary, in complex situations involving many people, in the event of disasters or major accidents, up to three standby bodies can coordinate their management activities by direct conference connection. With the 112 single call number, you can win valuable minutes, seconds to save. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what aspects have been taken into account when selecting the centres, and how many new jobs are created by the Single Emergency System. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-60	Thank you. Mr Károly Kontra shall have the floor.
u2014-10-13-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The main objective of the single emergency system is to reach aid organisations immediately by calling for a 112 number for emergency calls everywhere in Europe. As a result, help for those in distress will come as quickly as possible. Using 112, the police, fire department and ambulances can be called free of charge from any phone or anywhere. During the development, we thought not only of Hungarian citizens, but also of tourists, so that they could feel safe too. Therefore, our colleagues not only receive the calls in Hungarian in the system, but also in English, German, French and, of course, in the languages of all neighbouring countries. It increases security by building two centers, just like you said, in Miskolc and Szombathely. There are 296 people in the center of Szombathely, and 323 in Miskolc. This is a guarantee that they will be able to receive all calls within seconds. Several factors had to be taken into account in the development of the centres. Among other things, that the object should belong to the police's property management, that, if necessary, the centres can perform 100% of each other's tasks, that the training of the operators should be as close as possible to the educational sites, and that, in the case of Miskolc, we also provided a significant number of new jobs. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I trust that the system will help the police and disaster management to increase the effectiveness and professionalism of their actions and will be able to take the necessary measures significantly faster so that those in distress can be helped as soon as possible. Honourable Congressman, With the 112 emergency system, people can feel safer in our country. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-62	I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-10-13-63	Dear Secretary of State, As a Member of the Parliament of Vas County and a member of the Defence and Police Committee, I thank you for your reply, also because I believe that these two centres do contribute to the effectiveness of the rescue and also create jobs in Szombathely, Miskolc. At the same time, it solves the question of using an old border guard barracks between Szombathely and Söpte for the right purpose, a purpose that can truly contribute to the help of all those who are in trouble. I thank the Ministry of Interior and the police for their work, and I trust that these centres will be successful in their work and will be able to contribute to the rescue of as many lives as possible and to the resolution of disasters. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-64	Congressman accepted the answer. László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development, will be following:. What will become of you, Pannon Volán? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The merger of Volán companies has been going on for years, and it has now come to light that the consolidation of the 24 Volán groups into seven regional centres is not as simple as it seemed at first. After all, the integration of companies with different conditions has raised so many unforeseen problems, such as the coordination of employment rules, wage structures and IT systems, which, we see, is a major challenge. According to the government's decision, the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. In 2012, seven regional centres were set up, including the Pannon Volán Bus Transport Company, which was established on 1 January 1993. According to the decisions, one of the seven regions was established in Kapos Volán, South Transdanubia, and Pannon Volán Zrt. was merged here. So do I. The Government's plans were to achieve full structural integration by 1 January 2014, but recently Minister for National Development Miklós Seszták said that the transformation of public transport will continue. The aim of the reorganisation is to make more economical operations, to make more efficient use of state resources and to merge Volan companies at regional level, which will end by the end of the year. From January 2015, the State intends to save HUF 4-5 billion per year compared to previous expenditure. It is worth noting here that in 2008 political and professional resistance led to the establishment of a cooperative consortium rather than an organizational merger, which still has its foundations, and we believe that the objectives are still being met. According to trade unions in the sector workers should not be adversely affected by mergers. However, according to trade unions, such a marked savings can only be made at the cost of the downsizing of the number of employees causing operational and service disruptions. It is also obvious that, as a result of the restructuring, fewer people will be working in the administrative and higher management areas. Adversaries want guarantees that the acquis achieved so far concerning workers will not be reduced. After the change, wages should not be lower, nor the level of income should be reduced. In the workplaces where there is currently a collective agreement, their validity should continue. After all, I ask the Secretary of State what happened to Pannon Volán Zrt. with employees, how many have lost their jobs and how many will lose them after the merger. Were there and will there be outsourcing in the newly created South-Transdanubian Volan region that affects former workers of Pannon Volán? And can you personally, or can you not guarantee that the employees of the former Volán companies can not be adversely affected by the mergers, that the achievements already achieved remain valid for everyone? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-13-66	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-10-13-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary, Volan companies carry four-fifths of passengers, which means more than 2 million passengers per day. Volán flights cover 3200 settlements in the country, except 3-4, i.e. 99.9 percent. This work is carried out by about 18 thousand full-time workers and requires the work of a number of other partners. [[15.30]] This shows that the area to which your question is addressed is an extremely serious area. The regionalization of Volan companies was accordingly managed and managed by the Ministry of National Development and the Hungarian National Asset Manager as one of the most important projects. We have provided continuous, detailed information and consultation on the transformation, which lasts about two to two and a half years. Integration is expected to be completed in legal and internal organisational terms by 31 December 2014. During the transformation, Pannon, Kapos and Gemenc Volán Zrt. It doesn't disappear, it merges with South Transdanubian Transport Center Zrt. The creation of a new cost-effective company will further improve services. I declare with full responsibility that the mergers did not in any way affect or adversely affect workers, practically and exclusively in the managing segment during the two-year period? I'd say, if there weren't any misconceptions in management? has been and is being rationally merged. The regional companies? treating the employment relationship of workers as a continuous employment relationship? they will operate as successors to Volan companies. With the merger of companies, the rights acquired are not violated to the least, the employees retain all their previous rights, and last year there was a 4.2 percent average income development at Pannon Volán Zrt. this year. In the traffic and technical area there has been no downsizing, as the tasks remain the same, and with new orders it is possible to increase the number of employees. The modernisation of the Volán Group's fleet is a real and timely task, since its age is 13 years or above. Renewal of the fleet will not only be in the interests of passengers but also of workers, and Volán companies will benefit from all their own resources and favourable credit opportunities. Of course, with a very strict set of criteria? in consultation with interest representatives? the involvement of potential subcontractors cannot be excluded in the future. It is therefore unsubstantiated to any suspicions of a reduction in the rights of workers achieved. In addition to the owners, the transformation process is fully in line with the legitimate interests of the workers. On this basis, I ask the Member to accept or at least appreciate my reply. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-68	I ask the congressman if he will accept the answer.
u2014-10-13-69	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate your answer, because there were a lot of straight sentences in it, and I'm sure many people, many workers, many Volan workers, have thought about it, but I don't think fear has been eliminated. Then what will make 4-5 billion forints savings? Was this system that wasteful before? That's it? That's it? Then in three years, in two and a half years, why hasn't this system been so wasted before? I don't think it was, but if it was, it should have been eliminated much sooner. Well said, management. You said it well, Mr State Secretary, because I believe that as left-wingers, we cannot share this pure ownership approach. Trade unions are presented with constantly changing concepts every year, every six months, beyond time, before time, sometimes in a ready-made situation. You're the one who's left behind, a poor conciliation mechanism. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I can't accept your answer. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-13-70	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 106 votes in favour, 34 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When is there a real chance of getting his own home? It's an address. The congressman has the floor.
u2014-10-13-71	Mr President, Dear House, A young Hungarian today is faced with a very serious dilemma, when his average wage, his average salary, in a thought process, should reach the point of when he will have his own apartment, like his own doorman with a small garden. Unfortunately, for the majority, this is still in the impossible category. At the same time, I would like to start with a quote from 2011: Viktor Orbán said that it is urgent to protect existing homes before the launch of the new home creation programme. This was so successful only in part that in more than half of the previous cycle, people could be thrown out on the streets on the basis of the eviction quota you set. Fortunately, the people we're talking about are now granted temporary immunity. At the same time, a similar statement took place in the same year, i.e. in 2011, according to which they would like to be careful when drawing up a new HUF-based home creation programme, which is expected to start on 1 January 2012. Since then, this programme has been fully waiting for you, because although some things have been considered as a partial solution and an attempt to act, it can be concluded that the tenant population in Hungary has not increased a bit, and the average availability of a Hungarian youth in a private home has also not improved or increased. It is also important to see that this has contributed to the lack of jobs and the existential crisis, that while in the previous cycle only 330,000 immigrants were measured by different statistical offices from Hungary, this estimate has now climbed over half a million, and let us not even talk about those who have taken an illegal job, as they will not report here in Hungary that they are temporarily, for a longer or shorter period of time abroad. But it is a fact that, in addition to the lack of jobs, it is impossible to obtain an independent home that contributes most to the amazing strengthening of the emigration spiral. What would have been expected of you in the previous cycle? A comprehensive, state-based home-building and rental-building programme, in order to ensure that no young people in Hungary face a similar dilemma. On the other hand, what happened? The line of home creation in the budget, from which the State's additional leg of the exchange rate barrier 2.0, i.e. the support of banks, was financed. On the other hand, Jobbik has set down its own plan on the table, which would build rent apartments with the greatest involvement of domestic entrepreneurs, contractors and suppliers; without exaggerating, without exaggerating, we would assess hundreds of thousands of empty estates in Hungary in terms of what can be brought back into the Hungarian cycle and what can not; and finally, these apartments can be bought after a while, we would make them eligible for the ownership of young people, middle-aged Hungarians and demanding elderly people, just in order to slow down the migration spiral, improve the willingness to have children, and spin up our own Hungarian economy from self-power. The question is why the government has not had four and a half years to put a similar plan on the table. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-72	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-13-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Access to the apartment is not often achieved in our lives, only once or twice or three times in some people's lives, so obviously it is not a simple purchase, which can only be made from a month's salary or even a year's salary. Indeed, the value of society is how a young, young family can get an apartment. In Hungary, it is common for everyone to have their own apartment, own apartment. However, it must also be taken into account when criticising the government that there has been a lack of a programme on access to housing, that we take into account the economic environment we live in and the social difficulties we face, because now the problem of foreign exchange credentials basically determines the lives and fate of people who have fallen into this serious problem because of a new home purchase or housing acquisition. So the government's primary goal is to deal with the problem of those who have problems with living and housing. That's why the problem of foreign exchange lenders was important, and now you can see the end, and you can see that you'll find a solution. [[15.40]] The forinting happens, the unfairly charged fees are returned, the wrongly cleared exchange rates are returned to people, and they now see clearly in forints how long, how, how much they have to repay. But those who are in an even more serious situation, with the operation of the National Asset Manager, the government is basically implementing the largest rental program for the regime change, since it buys 25,000 public apartments, which solves the problem and the problem of about 110,000 people. The number of 25,000 is, by the way, a quarter of the tenements now owned by the local government. But I also see in your program that there are contradictions, because once you talk about building countless new apartments, and then about the problem of empty apartments. It should be decided whether they are now building a new apartment or dealing with vacant homes. At one of your press conferences, you said that this could be done with 10 billion forints. I'm just telling you, if we're going to spend five million forints on an apartment, it means building or renovating 2,000 apartments in total. That doesn't solve the social problem. So neither do you, nor do you, perceive the weight of this. The government does, however, because, while dealing with the problem of foreign exchange lenders, it grants benefits to the population in relation to housing maintenance by implementing the reduction programme, and there could be a long list of benefits that the government is giving to people who are already living in their homes, interest rate subsidies, various tax and tax subsidies, interest rate subsidies on housing loans, preferential housing support provided by employers, with which many people have been able to live and will still live. The first question is, of course, whether we can ensure economic growth on a permanent basis, thereby increasing the size of people's income and their real income. If this is going to work out, it's also how people will be able to get their own apartment on their own. I think this could be the long-term program. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-74	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-10-13-75	Mr President, Dear House, I can't accept this answer because Mr. Secretary of State can't even look at numbers and facts he's talking about, says 10 billion instead of 60 billion, so learn to use Google, we quoted 150 places that from HUF 60 billion, a publicly funded rent-building program can be launched, which is an Austrian model? interestingly, did Austrians who are now in a lighter position want to put their state foot next to them? He was able to start, prove and use it. But when you talk about the economic environment limiting their opportunities, on the one hand, you contradict yourself, because you shouldn't have made promises in 2011, and 12, on the other hand you don't understand the essence of the problem that I can't help you with, I'm just trying to point you out again. The fangs of the problem and the fangs of the disaster called foreign currency lending were that, by cutting the HUF-supported housing loans, Hungarian people could not get their own home. If this is not helped, but in an insidious way, the National Asset Manager is called the Booster of the Landings, where people are deprived of ownership of their own property, not only are they misguided, but they avoid solving the problem in a sanctimonious and sly way. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-76	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted 104 yes, 28 no, with 3 abstentions the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. Congressman László Szászfalvi is entitled to it.
u2014-10-13-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government helped to reduce the population's spending by reducing the costs announced in 2013, so far it has totaled HUF 334 billion in household savings, household electricity savings HUF 160 billion, gas account savings 139 billion, district heating savings HUF 35 billion. The third phase of the reduction in electricity started at the beginning of January last year was also achieved by reducing the cost of district heating by 3.3 percent on 1 October 2014, with a total reduction of 25.1 percent in gas supply. Electricity prices decreased by 25.5 percent and district heating users now pay a total of 22.6 percent less. Dear Secretary of State, In the countryside, however, as we all know, a lot of people are firing wood, so their winter spending has not been significantly reduced so far. However, we welcome the government's decision to sell firewood with a 10-percent discount, some 170,000 cubic metres nationwide. The preferential supply of firewood has begun in the state forest farms. The 10 percent reduction means an average saving of 20-30 thousand HUF for a household during the heating season. In addition, last year, the government made substantial contributions to social firewood support. This helped some 1,700 settlements of less than 5,000 inhabitants. The settlements received HUF 2 billion in funding, which was twice as much as the previous year. The municipalities added the amount of aid, so those in need received some HUF 2.2 billion in support. With all due respect, I ask Mr Secretary of State: how does the Government intend to increase the amount of support and whether it is possible to broaden the number of beneficiaries? Does the Secretary of State see the possibility for municipalities to obtain this important support in a simpler way? I look forward to the honour of the Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-78	I give the floor to Secretary Tibor Pogácsás.
u2014-10-13-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In his interpellation, Mr President, he dealt in advance with the introduction of the interpellation on the reduction of the overhead and its measures. And it is true that the Hungarian population, Hungarian families, could count on billions less expenditure as a result of these measures. Prices of electricity, gas, district heating, chimney sweeping fee, water and sewerage services have decreased significantly. However, it is true that in areas, especially in the countryside and in areas where only wood was heated during the winter period, the effect of reducing gas prices was not felt. State forest farms reduce the price of firewood by 10 percent this year, which is already a significant help for these families, but in addition, we will continue the programme that the government launched in 2011. The programme for the provision of social firewood was launched in 2011, which helped poor families living in a poor line, who could only provide their winter life support through this heating mode. In 2011, 456 local authorities received HUF 858 million in support of the purchase of firewood for social purposes, and in 12 1625 municipalities received HUF 1 billion, and last year 1760 municipalities were able to distribute HUF 2 billion in funding. For the purpose of the additional aid for the purchase of fuel for social purposes by local authorities, the Government shall provide the following information in accordance with Article 1516/2014: In its decision, the government decided that HUF 3 billion should be available for this programme this year, so we increased this amount by 1 billion. This programme has been launched and applications are being processed. According to the government's decision, BM issued a regulation which regulates the possibilities for the use of the tender itself. This year, too, settlements not exceeding 5,000 inhabitants could submit applications, but what is new this year is that it was possible to apply not only for firewood, but also for brown coal. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President of the Council has indicated that the municipalities have added the funds received from the proposals this year, and I believe that this year is a significant and positive difference, in the case of the settlements which have fallen short of socio-economic, infrastructural terms, or in the case of unemployment significantly above the national average. [[15.50]] Therefore, they do not need to provide an own contribution, if they have the opportunity, they can also use this to increase the aid. The local rules and the detailed rules are, of course, determined by the municipalities, but the main boundary lines have still been marked. According to this, they should benefit from elderly people's benefits, debt reduction aid linked to debt management aid or housing support, as well as families with multiple disadvantaged children. Honourable Congressman, The deadline for the submission of applications has expired, and a total of 2074 municipalities have indicated their support needs. The Hungarian Treasury is currently reviewing these applications and forwarding them to the Ministry of Interior by 16th of this month. We will have ten days to evaluate the applications, so there will be time to use these amounts. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-10-13-80	I ask the congressman if he will accept the answer.
u2014-10-13-81	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply, and of course I accept it. Thank you to the government for recognising this important question that rural people had the old, real, realistic desire to achieve a reduction in the costs of winter firewood. This has become a reality. Perhaps this government measure is another step towards our goal, so that the Hungarian rural population does not feel that they are second-class citizens of this country. I am pleased that we have also made progress with regard to the social firewood programme, as the budget is 1 billion HUF more this year. We are pleased about this, and I wish that this increase can continue year after year. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-82	Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, an independent Member, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister, saying: "Enough secrecy, let's hear the truth about austerity. It's an address. On behalf of the Minister of National Economy, Mr András Tállai responds to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2014-10-13-83	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Now that the elections are over, perhaps you will be willing to speak more honestly about what the government is planning with Hungary. As a first step, a draft budget postponed so far by bogus reasons will finally be made public. We are aware that the reason for delaying the submission of this is because it would have been embarrassing to make it public before the elections. The election's over, so let's finally stand up to the people. Then Mihály Varga said a few weeks ago that your government plans to cut budget expenditure by HUF 1700 billion in the coming years, i.e. by 5.5 percent of GDP. This means 500 billion forints a year. Unfortunately, we know very well that this will mean framing the already poorer Hungarian people. In recent years, education, health care and the social sphere have already been bled out. According to Eurostat's recent data, there are 3.3 million poor people in Hungary today, 100,000 more than a year ago, and about half a million more than five years ago. The country is clearly and drastically slipping down in the higher education crisis, there is no solution to the settlement of hospital debts or even the establishment of a sustainable health care system. With the pension system, the government has not started anything other than the downsizing of private pension funds, unemployment is only decreasing because of the expensive and infinitely humiliating public work programme and the emigration of young people, and the statistics show that it is an average public worker? Do we know exactly? He works three months a year. Social workers bring home 70,000 forints a month, as much as János Lázár or your colleagues will have dinner one night in London. Secretary of State, a cut of HUF 1700 billion can only be implemented by the government reducing pensions and privatizing health and education. Please respond in eight years, in the time of gyurcsány-bajnai, and in the time of you, without tidings, people deserve the honest speech: Mr Secretary, is the government preparing to reduce pensions or increase the age limit? Are private equity participation in health and education being made in the context of austerity? How are you going to finance this $1,700 billion cut? I trust that this news in our poor country is just a malicious rumor, so I ask you to answer directly, without misconception. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2014-10-13-84	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2014-10-13-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have to give bad news to both you and your party allies who are saying that there will be austerity. There will be no austerity in Hungary. There won't be any 1700 billion forints cut. That's what you guys came up with to scare people again in the municipal campaign. In spite of the fact that in the previous elections, you could have realised that the alarm could no longer collect votes in Hungary, but you did so before the election, and now you will do so even after the election. No restrictions were said. It has been said that the proportion of public expenditure, as compared to GDP, will decrease in the coming years, which is also included in the Convergence Programme itself. But I'm sure you know that if you count one percent, you can achieve a decrease by measuring a state budget that's kept in check when there's economic growth. This is simply the case that the government and the country will do their duty in the convergence programme. Otherwise, there is no reason to be restrictive, since there is economic growth in Hungary. There is economic growth that was the highest in Europe in the second quarter, 3.9 percent. The interesting thing about the situation is that the IMF was forced to recognise Hungary's economic performance the other day and change its previous position for this year and indicate a higher growth for Hungary next year than before. This is projected to increase by 2.8 per cent for Hungary in 2018 and 2.3 per cent for 2015, which is significantly higher, 1.1 per cent and 0.7 per cent higher than previously said by the IMF. The IMF cannot be accused of trying to convey Hungary to the world in a positive way. I think that his very realistic judgment must be accepted by everyone, even the opposition politicians in Hungary. But I could continue with the assessment of London analysts, who, on the other hand, said that there is a good chance that if Hungary continues this fiscal and economic policy, the country will be upgraded in the summer of 2015. I am asking why we need to apply austerity while, by the way, the country is finally on the path of economic growth. By the way, with regard to the 2015 budget, you, too, will be able to get to know its content within days, because it will be before Parliament by 31 October, according to the adopted law. But don't be surprised, because it will only contain what we have already said that the deficit target cannot be higher than 3 percent that the country's debt will decrease. The primary objective is to ensure sustained economic growth, to increase employment, to reduce individual and family burdens and, not least, to resolve the foreign exchange-credit problem permanently. I have to tell you, no matter what you scare me about, no matter what you expect us to do, it's not gonna happen. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[16.00]]
u2014-10-13-86	I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2014-10-13-87	Of course, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. Mr. Secretary, you're not asking the questions. I'm asking the questions. I believe you're concerned that the field team didn't perform so well. [[Noise, clearing the benches of the ruling parties.]] As you hoped, please answer our questions a little more carefully. I didn't say and we didn't say there'd be cuts, or, as you say, cuts, but cuts in public spending, so there'll be cuts, and we didn't say so, but Mihály Varga. So I'm still waiting for the answer that I didn't get on my question about how they're going to solve a reduction in public spending, especially if you think the economy is growing, what's the need for that. I'm glad to hear that you or you think the IMF is now a realistic judge. That's not what we've heard from you. I can't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-13-88	The congresswoman did not accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 103 votes in favour, 41 votes against, without abstention, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the interpellation phase. It follows a decision on the classification of certain reports submitted in the previous cycle as closed without discussion. The House Committee is the house rule 157. On the basis of its powers under Article 5 of the Treaty, it initiates the conclusion without negotiation of the accounts with which the authors agree. The House Committee discussed a proposal containing a list of individual proposals at two meetings. Last week's meeting reached an agreement, which the Members could learn in the e-mail. At the beginning of the meeting, we decided to derogate from the house rules. In so doing, Parliament has given the opportunity to submit a separate motion for a vote within the time limit for any faction or at least five independent Members. No such motion has been made. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the House Committee's proposal, with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it considers the reports submitted to the previous Parliament to be closed according to the list submitted by the House Committee. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament declared the reports closed by 125 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour and 1 abstention. [[Congratulations!]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that reports classified as closed will be removed from the parliamentary series. A list of these can be found on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to reduce the price of basic foodstuffs by CXXVII of 2007 on general sales tax. T/547 initiating an amendment to law Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The set of items was rejected by the Budget Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor István Harangozó, on behalf of the authors, in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-13-89	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In his speech before today's agenda, Mr Antal Rogán spoke very highly of the fact that Fidesz is obviously winning the elections because it represents the interests of the electorate. Listening to this, I was wondering what might have happened at the Committee on Budgets meeting. It's probably a fatal mistake or a momentary lapse, or God knows what happened, because you didn't support the inclusion of our VAT reduction proposal. For this reason, we would like to create an opportunity to correct this Commission mistake here at the plenary session. Although we were not given any justification at this Committee on Budgets for not being supported, as no members of the Government spoke to him, they simply voted 'no' for the proposal, but a debate on the same subject also took place today in the Committee on Agriculture. There, István Nagy, State Secretary, explained why they cannot support the VAT reduction proposal, even though they would very much like it to be achieved, because the government is going to tax consumption, and the tax will be actually fair, because anyone who consumes how much will pay taxes to the extent of it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the case of VAT on basic foods, we are talking about products that consumers must buy. That's why they're called basic foods, isn't it? These are not luxury products, milk, bread, meat, freshwater fish. [[Intercom from the Fidesz benches: Sea fish?]] , the consumption of which one chooses not to buy it as a luxury product or not, but, in order to maintain it every day, it is necessary for citizens to buy these products. Obviously, if you care so much about reducing household expenditure, especially for the poorest households, you need to take into account not only heating costs, electricity costs, but also the determining part of the cost of basic food, if you want to reduce the costs of families, which is why you should be in favour of reducing the VAT on basic foods. But there is another very important argument. We have seen for years that both the domestic food industry and agriculture are in serious trouble, because the 27 percent VAT is not only the highest in Europe, but is significantly higher than in any of the neighbouring countries. In Europe there is typically between 0-9 percent VAT on basic foods, and 27 percent VAT on basic foods. This is not only a huge competitive disadvantage for domestic producers, but, in fact, as a result of this high VAT, the black economy has bitten to a level where entrepreneurs who produce their food products in a fair way and try to place them on the market are placed at a competitive disadvantage in which they are simply unable to survive. That is why, despite the fact that billion-dollar aid packages are being filled by large food companies, they cannot be saved, since businesses who simply paper the product as if it were foreign and import their own Hungarian products from abroad, according to market studies, the cost is around 5%, and then the product is placed at a cost of 5 per cent in the supermarkets that sell the food. This gives them a 22-percent price advantage compared to those who place their products on the shelves fairly, announced, and paid for the VAT. But that's not the only problem. After all, the person who cheats and does not pay the VAT obviously does not report to his employees, because what the workers would produce if the product was imported from abroad. This also significantly increases black employment and, after the food industry, raises major food safety problems, since these products are not announced or controlled. So if we want to get the domestic food industry back on its feet [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] Then support this proposal. Finally, allow a single sentence. The Secretary of State concluded by saying, "I know you don't have a bigger fan, or no one wants to reduce the VAT on basic foods more than the agricultural portfolio, we always count, we try to get the government to increase the VAT on basic foods." [[Moraj, interrogations from the benches of the governing parties: Time! Time! ? The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] Congresswoman, gentlemen, please help me. Mr President, thank you very much for your patience. Thank you for listening.
u2014-10-13-90	Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, from the group of the MSZP. [[16.10]]
u2014-10-13-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow bellman has already said that we would like to ask you to support our proposal for a decision to reduce VAT on basic foods. He also made professional arguments, which we have already discussed with my fellow Members in the Committee on Agriculture today. Look, even after reducing the VAT on half-carcases, you have shown that there has been a great increase in the use of pig meat and that it has also helped to whiten the farm, and you have, of course, been able to help families, since the cost of living has been reduced. We would therefore like to ask you once again, to encourage you, and even, if you can say so, to support this proposal for a resolution and to help families reduce costs. Thank you.
u2014-10-13-92	I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the Jobbik Group.
u2014-10-13-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Does Jobbik naturally support a slightly revised version of its own proposal, which deals with the reduction of VAT on basic foods, and we are also pleased to hear from the MSZP's admission that, after some reductions have been made in respect of a few items of VAT in the last few months of their last government cycle? Before that, do we have huge raises, as we know, and as all statistics show? After that, the Fidesz-KDNP government has actually recognised that in recent years the VAT rate you have raised to 20 and then 25 has been raised to 27 percent in Europe, which is untenable. At the same time, reducing the VAT base on basic foods makes real sense if traders are not able to swallow this mass, so by supplementing and building a proper monitoring system, real success can be achieved. Should we note that, too? as my excellent colleague from Borsodi indicated just now when the agenda was discussed? that there is indeed a problem with prices in Hungary, but perhaps it is not the prices that are the biggest problem, but rather the wages. So until, to the extent determined by the KSH, the net average salary spreads between 140 and 160 thousand forints? And this is an average that millions of bankers pay up? In the meantime, we have a very difficult job to do if we want to achieve any kind of reductions or reductions in the market in terms of VAT on basic foods, so that the trader does not absorb this surplus. It is therefore clear at systemic level that income conditions should be improved over the longer term, but as a symptomatic treatment, the Jobbik faction naturally supports a first-round debate on the reduction of VAT on basic foods, and second-round implementation of this. In addition, we welcome the confession that, indeed, during your last government cycle, there has been an amazing increase in VAT, in the last months some reduction, symptomatic treatment, and since then, hell has broken loose in this regard, as we can talk about a record turnover tax at European level. Jobbik doesn't want to keep it that way. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-94	I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP faction.
u2014-10-13-95	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The MSZP bill, in order to reduce the price of basic foods, on the amendment of the VAT Act, I can say that LMP is in favour of putting this on the agenda, as the issue is very important for consumers and producers alike. It is indeed untenable for Hungary to have 27 percent of the EU's highest VAT, with an average Hungarian earning 40 percent of the EU's average wage per month, and our prices are 83 percent of the EU average. The LMP would like Hungary to have no more than the average EU turnover tax. At the same time, we also have serious reservations about VAT reductions, or more precisely, about the honesty of the MSZP in this regard. It is a great riddle why the MSZP and the Fidesz have supported the reduction of VAT on basic food prices from the opposition, but they have never taken any real steps in government on the basis of the balance of the budget. We must also say that it is not enough to reduce VAT in itself. In particular, the country needs a tax, economic and employment policy that contributes to the growth of average wages, as this is the main problem, which is why tens of thousands of people leave the country every year. This would require the start-up of a local economy with higher added value based on its own resources and a return to the large estate system, as laid down by the LMP programme in 2010. In addition, the question of VAT recovery for food and the shortening of the food chain is a step to be examined to ensure that food goes through less hands until it reaches the consumer. Overall, however, we support the inclusion of the bill on the agenda. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-10-13-96	Thank you. I give the floor to László Varju, an independent congressman.
u2014-10-13-97	Mr President, Dear House, By the time we get to the end of the agenda, we'll realize that almost every faction knows exactly what's going on. With regard to VAT, Fidesz has created a situation where we are world record holders in this regard, and the economic policy that has such elements is clearly against those people who have to buy bread and milk every day and increase their burden to the heavens. But does this include those who don't shop at home? the few who have the opportunity to do so? They're the ones you support with this situation. Then, at times, there is also the fact that not only 27 percent, but there are products that you would like to raise above 30 percent; that was Mr Matolcsy's favourite sentence in the previous period. That is why, given what kind of world peaks we are in VAT, I propose and agree with my fellow Member's initiative to put it on the agenda, because it is within this framework that we can talk about the fact that when you talk about eating children and the possibility of eating healthy meals, what it really means for you. As far as we're concerned, you're charging almost 30 percent, 27 percent of the family's budget, and that's the only way to buy bread. That is why I propose that I support the inclusion on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause for the independent congressmen.]]
u2014-10-13-98	I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No signal.]] If not, I will give the floor to Mr Gábor Harangozó, who has indicated that he wishes to respond within a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-13-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also have been very interested in the opinion of the pro-government Members, because obviously you have two thirds in Parliament, so it will be what you decide. They could at least explain before they press the button why they're gonna decide what they're gonna do. If they follow their decision at the committee meeting, we must unfortunately state that, although it is possible to discuss at a committee meeting that everyone agrees with our proposal, everyone knows that it is necessary, everyone knows that the food industry cannot be put on its feet without it, but for some reason you are unwilling to support this proposal. If you refuse to support our proposal, at least you bring it in, put it in your name, but do something about this case, because without it? I'm gonna say it again? the Hungarian food industry will not be able to recover. The question has been raised in many people, and there is doubt that if everyone knows that this step must be taken, then why not. Does anyone, some powerful person, have any interest in maintaining this system? Obviously, I'm blowing off these voices, but I want you to explain to me why if you don't support them, why you don't support them. Finally, I would like to respond to what the Socialist Party has done to the government in the matter of VAT. If you cannot attack us in something, you can't do that, because milk, dairy products, cheese, cottage cheese, wheat, flour, starch, so basic food is placed in a separate VAT key, an 18-percent VAT rate was created for basic foods at the time, which was significantly lower than the standard VAT rate. Today we see that this is not enough, we have to take it down to 5 percent, because there are so many in Europe, and this could be a meaningful step forward. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-100	The decision will take place after the next proposal has been negotiated. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/363. Bill No.2 on the inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Budgets. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, on behalf of the authors, in a five-minute time frame. [[16.20]]
u2014-10-13-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to create a fair and equitable public burden, to encourage the use of public funds to promote job creation and the development of the economy more effectively, and to raise the resources needed to help the Hungarian child starve and eradicate it. From 2010, the Orbán government transformed the tax system by increasing the tax burden on small and medium-sized workers, while reducing the tax burden on well-paid workers. With the one-key tax introduced by Fidesz, four out of five were worse off. At the same time, Fidesz helped those who did not need it and created ideal relations for speculators in Hungary. Did they typically benefit from capital incomes? In particular, income from dividends? a relevant tax reduction. Fidesz taxed the banks, taxed the multi-company companies, while the companies that rubbed on Fidesz, which became rich with public money, have benefited offshore companies in the hundreds of billion-dollar order of magnitude in recent years, instead of investing it in the Hungarian economy. According to press reports, the Simicska Empire paid over HUF 22 billion in dividends last year. István Garancsi and the gas dealer in his interests paid over HUF 54 billion in dividends to owners hiding behind offshore companies in the gas offshore business with state aid. There are also uncontested press reports that Lőrinc Mészáros received a dividend of HUF 1.2 billion in 2013. But we can also talk about Fidesz's favorite media company, which paid a dividend of HUF 350 million to its owners. In total, Fidesz's owners could receive hundreds of millions of billions of dividends. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the meantime, to a large extent, it is the turnover from the taxpayers' forints and community funds, which are... [[The president's ringing again. ? Noise, interruptions from the pro-government benches: Time! Time! Time's up!]]
u2014-10-13-102	It's expired. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Five minutes, Mr. President.]] Sorry... no, two minutes.
u2014-10-13-103	All these revenues, from which dividends were paid to owners, were mainly due to government and local government orders made from taxpayers' forints and community funds, on which they could earn up to 20-25 percent. On one side, the Orbán government increased the taxes on small-time earners, led to the tax credit, while on the other hand, it provided its own friendly companies with gross municipal, state and European Union community funds for revenue through public procurement, from which they could take a billion or even a hundred billion-dollar profit. We believe that the bill will bring justice, because if you tax multinational companies, banks, you cannot just stand by and watch these businesses close to Fidesz take a big profit. Is it our proposal that businesses that are enriched by such community funds, tax-paying forints, government, municipal orders? if the revenue exceeds 50% of their turnover? do not pay the 16 percent dividend tax, but pay 75% of the Hungarian budget. We would like, on the basis of the bill, that if this revenue is not taken out in dividends, but invested in the development of the economy, their own innovations and their own development, then there is no need to pay taxes, but if it is paid into the budget, child hunger will be made within the budget..., child hunger will be eliminated. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] ; be financed by local governments' programmes for child hunger and eradication. I would like to ask my fellow Members to make a joke about this, but I think that most of these serious billions should be in the budget and should be used for this purpose. I ask that you support it so that we can put it on the agenda, discuss it and vote in favour. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-104	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who wishes to speak in a two-minute time frame. László Varju was the first independent congressman to come forward. I give you the floor.
u2014-10-13-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, After a brief discussion, I will pass on the right of speech to the congresswoman. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2014-10-13-106	Then Congresswoman Szabó Timea has the floor, I see. Here.
u2014-10-13-107	Thank you very much; thank you for the gesture. Of course, the most important task for the Együtt-PM is to eradicate child hunger. We regret that the Fidesz government is not paying enough attention to this. This could be solved very simply. Of course, we support the proposal of our socialist fellow Members, but otherwise this could be resolved much more easily: we will complete the stadium construction and cut off the support of something called public media from 70 billion to 35 billion. From this, child hunger can be eliminated twice in Hungary, as we calculated that the total amount of HUF 18 billion is needed in order to eliminate child hunger in a year. Please support the inclusion of this bill in the series of articles. We will also have proposals to amend it. At a time when there are 600,000 children living in houses with no toilets, with leaky roofs and moldy walls, we cannot allow stadiums to be built in Hungary. I also request the support of the Fidesz MEPs for this. Thank you. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2014-10-13-108	I'll give the word to Cutter Sebestyén of Jobbik's faction.
u2014-10-13-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's a little strange that the faction, the party at the time of which it was regnated, was talking about controversial public procurements, and that during its governance, we could have witnessed rather dubious and rather strange transactions. Jobbik's faction, as a believer of total accountability, says that all public procurement over the last 24 years should be reviewed, and if we did so, it would be very often that total confiscation would be the end result, and if we were to live with the total confiscation of assets, then we could solve the problems of helping poor families with a difficult fate and a difficult fate, without their own failure, so that there is no child hunger, we should not observe the phenomenon that people living in two hands should consider whether to buy milk or rolls in the store in the last days of the month. So I would suggest that we have a full review, full accountability, although there were Commissioners for accountability in the previous cycle, but they could not achieve any results. At the end of the work of a truly well-functioning Commissioner for Accountancy, there would actually be total confiscations, from which we could fill these holes. Of course, I agree and our group agrees that the problems raised must be discussed by Parliament. These anomalies need to be reviewed, these anomalies should be discussed, even in connection with such a bill, and we will therefore support the inclusion of the subject series. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]]
u2014-10-13-110	I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP.
u2014-10-13-111	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Possibly Other Politics has strongly advocated the eradication of child hunger in recent years. We find it unacceptable that Article XXI should be amended accordingly. In the century, children have to starve. Yet today in Hungary hundreds of thousands of children's meals are uncertain outside school hours: on weekends and during school summer and winter holidays. This is not only unacceptable, but unnecessary. By extending the existing social meals program, no child should starve outside school hours by adding only HUF 8-10 billion. LMP would make it a mandatory municipal task to ensure the entire year-round food supply of children in need. To do so, we would provide 100% state aid to the municipalities. So this cost can only be financed from the price of a small stadium, a few billion forints. In the same way, the MSZP proposal serves to eliminate child hunger by radically increasing the dividend tax. The LMP itself is not opposed to raising the dividend tax, but such sudden and harsh changes are not considered to be fortunate, they are not good for the economy, as they create an unpredictable economic environment. It is not clear to us whether the errors of the unfair income distribution policy can be corrected by this proposal. It is not clear whether the sources of the food for children should be labelled. Child hunger and eradication should be achieved through general tax revenues, universal policies and specific targeted programmes. [[16.30]] In addition, the LMP supports the inclusion of the proposal in the subject series. We agree with the goals. At the same time, the tools? if we can negotiate the proposal? It is absolutely necessary to refine with amendments. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-10-13-112	I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] If not, I will give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, who has indicated that he wishes to respond within a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-13-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that the proposal has given you more clarity than a real confrontation with the problem. In a small village in Baranya, breakfast is served Monday morning to noon, because the children who go to the nursery on Monday did not eat properly on weekends. They also agree with the caterer to bring a higher amount to kindergarten on this day. Meanwhile, Lajos Simicska, István Garancsi, Lőrinc Mészáros collects billions of dividends from his companies, the billions that they received from government or state orders in some public procurement. And as long as this is happening in preschools in the poorer parts of the country, they will take these money, and they will also live in luxury apartments. Please consider, at the time of your decision, that Parliament should face this, put it on the agenda, and be fair, proportionate to the Hungarian public burden for all Hungarian people, even in comparison with foreigners; if they take on a larger scale, let the Hungarian oligarchs, the Hungarian Fidesz large entrepreneurs, also undertake. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-114	Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the subject series of proposals we have just discussed. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of subjects by the representatives of Gábor István Harangozó, Zsolt Legény, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, 2007 CXXVII on general sales tax in order to reduce the price of basic foods. T/547. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] With 45 votes in favour, 107 against, without abstention, Parliament did not include the bill in the series of articles. I ask you whether you will be included in the series of articles T/363 amending certain tax laws by József Tobias and other Members in order to eradicate child hunger. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote. ? Zoltán Lukács to the MPs: If Viktor Orbán learns that you did not vote for this...? János Lázár: There will be trouble, trouble!]] With 46 votes in favour, 104 against and 1 abstention, the Parliament did not include the bill in the series of articles. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. Now it's time for immediate questions and answers. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. ? Noise.]] Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: - Whose money is it? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2014-10-13-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. May I wait until Mr. President of the Central Bank finishes his special consultation and listen to the question I'd like to ask him? [[Dr. György Matolcsy speaks to Dr. Pál Völner and takes his place.]] Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, In the last few weeks, the Hungarian National Bank has started a truly amazing, strange and gigantic waste, of which you are the head. We were just rushing our heads. In the first place, the management of the Hungarian National Bank decided to boost the real estate market, the real estate business, and to become a major buyer in this important market itself. In the framework of this, he immediately bought a castle hostel. When we regained consciousness from this shock, we saw that they did not stop here, but immediately bought a luxury office building in Budapest, which is certainly the most expensive office building in the capital. In the latter case, it is particularly outrageous that the published price that became public on a website was bought much more expensively from an offshore company. Obviously, you needed an expert estimate so you wouldn't be able to buy it at a cheaper price. But that wasn't enough, the contract was made by Minister Trocsányi's law firm. In better European countries, for such a reason, the minister will leave immediately if one of these is found out. And when it wasn't enough, it turned out that you had allocated 200 billion forints and made them available to foundations in order to teach your economic views and economic thinking, so to speak. I would like to point out that the balance of the Hungarian National Bank is part of the public finances, every penny is public money. What do you think you're doing, spending money like this? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-10-13-116	I give the floor to President György Matolcsy.
u2014-10-13-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for your questions. First of all, allow me to say that the operation of the Hungarian National Bank is regulated by the Central Bank Act, and this clearly states that the Hungarian Central Bank? Like the central bank of all EU countries? independently, it works independently. Independence means that there is only one anchor for the functioning of the central bank and this is the medium-term inflation target. The Hungarian Central Bank Act is still responsible for financial stability and the support of the government's economic policy. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] What you're mentioning, fortunately, is not so. The balance sheet of the Hungarian central bank is not part of the budget, the balance sheet of the Hungarian public finances. Quite simply because the Hungarian central bank manages central bank money from the creation of money, it does not use any forints of taxpayers. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Is the money yours?]] So, is it the positive result of the central bank? If there is, let's hope it's this year? will not be paid as dividends to the budget. On the other hand, the Hungarian Central Bank has undertaken in its Statute to seek that it will not accumulate any losses in any year. The examples you mentioned indicate that it is wrong to intervene in the independent operation of the central bank. Because the central bank had 22 properties before, and now it's bought a resort. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's in the house rules...]] Horribile dictu, one. In the case of the property you mentioned, he bought real estate from the central bank and not from the company. That's the basic difference. Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-118	Thank you. Now I'll give you a rejoinder.
u2014-10-13-119	Thank you. That answer is quite strange, as much as your economic views. I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that you can be asked here in Parliament, which does not undermine the independence of the central bank, and you must, of course, be responsible for all your decisions, if any, here in Parliament. But let's see what you're talking about. The fact that, first as Minister and then as President of the Central Bank, he was instrumental in weakening the forint. In 2010, before you were a minister, you had to pay around HUF 265 for a single euro, today after a small improvement, but it is still close to lane 310. President of the Bank, you should be primarily concerned with protecting the forint; not only could you not protect it, but you have seriously weakened it by your professional activities, while you have started spending on such a large scale. This is quite simply unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-13-120	You have a rejoinder, Mr. President.
u2014-10-13-121	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Well, what you're saying is the brightest example of how good it is to have an independent central bank. The central bank does not have an exchange rate target, the central bank does not have a balance sheet objective, the central bank has no interest target, the central bank has no other purpose than the medium-term inflation target. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Zoltán Lukács: You can save the money!]] [[16.40]] Therefore, if we listened to you, the Hungarian financial system would be in the biggest trouble [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Since we would strive to make the forint either strong or weak, we would pay our profits as dividends to the budget. That would be a very big mistake, that would be a huge mistake. Therefore, the Central Bank Act on the Hungarian National Bank rightly states that independently of the government, regardless of the parties and regardless of the money market lobbying groups, the Hungarian central bank decides on each issue independently and independently. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-122	Dear Parliament, President Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:, Why is there another III/II person in the government after János Martonyi? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or whether he is asking the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2014-10-13-123	Thank you, but for personal responsibility, I would like to give Prime Minister the opportunity to explain himself personally. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-124	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Eastern opening or rather opening an Eastern bank account is the Minister's aim? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2014-10-13-125	Thank you, but Péter Szijjártó's property scandal would also require a personal confession.
u2014-10-13-126	Thank you. Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You want to ask the Attorney General an immediate question:, do you not think it is suspicious that Péter Szijjártó is allegedly being held by his parents, and Zsolt Semjén is being held by his underage children? It's an address. (Development in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Mr. Attorney General has appointed Mr. Ervin Belovics Deputy Attorney General for his urgent public service. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Prosecutor General for an answer.
u2014-10-13-127	All right, let's not delay the accountability, I accept, Mr. President.
u2014-10-13-128	Thank you. Then it's up to you.
u2014-10-13-129	Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, After explaining his fabulous wealth, Péter Szijjártó explained that his parents basically care for him, Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, who is officially funded by his underage children, offered a similarly unscrupulous explanation. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Zsolt Semjén's property statement does not include a large hunting house attributed to him by Gánton, but on paper the deputy prime minister's brother in Sopron, his mother's, and the property of Erzsébet Semjénné Menus. Is this threefold possession lifelike, while the Pharisee Shemyen is poor as a mouse of the temple? Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, The case of the Deputy Prime Minister's holiday home in Balatonfenyves is even more spicy, since he is not the owner here, but his children, who in turn pay annuity in return, have been under contract since they were 12, 9 and 7. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] If MSZP's political criminal, Gábor Simon, knew that such unscrupulous statements could solve a bust, he might still be sitting here with us, but he hasn't sunk yet. Jobbik also initiated an extraordinary meeting of the National Security Committee to investigate whether Péter Szijjártó connected the Eastern opening policy with the opening of the Eastern bank account, or what kind of foreign interests may result from the growth of the hundred million-dollar wealth, which, in its explanation, is an unscrupulous modification of his previous declarations of assets by the minister dependent on his parents than Antal Rogán himself. Therefore, I would like to ask for the substantive reply of Deputy Prosecutor General and the initiative to suspend immunity. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-130	I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich.
u2014-10-13-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the question of Mr Szijjártó, Mr Szijjártó and Mr Zsolt Semjén deal with family relations, financial relations and the issue of financial benefits within the family. However, according to the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the Public Prosecutor's Office is required to enforce the State's criminal claim as an intermediary of justice. However, the control of family relationships is outside this claim, i.e. the assessment of who has the property within the family is not the responsibility of the prosecutor's office. I must say, Congressman, that if you have information at your disposal that raises the criminal liability of anyone, I would ask you to pass this information on to the prosecution. All the more so, I ask you to do so, because according to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, the Member of Parliament is an official and the official is subject to an obligation to report it. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-132	I'll give the rejoinder to the gentleman representing the opportunity.
u2014-10-13-133	Well, Deputy Attorney General, I'm very sorry that this is your way out of a meaningful response and procedure. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] We have become accustomed to the fact that our various charges have led to a search for ways to sweep cases under the rug. There is clear evidence here that, to put it mildly, the story is not round, and the tale that Zsolt Semjén told is not quite realistic. But in the case of Péter Szijjártó, I think, and in the case of the various politicians of Fidesz, the documents leaked on WikiLeaks prove that Fidesz and the politicians of the MSZP also report to the U.S. Embassy without compensation and request instructions from them. [[János Lázár: I don't walk, I have papers. ? Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thus, even if serving foreign interests is not new information, these fabulous enrichments certainly raise questions as to whether, for example, the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs served other countries than the US for good money. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz, including János Lázár: Béla Kovács should be asked. Uncle Bela could tell you a lot about this.]] The National Security Committee should also examine whether Péter Szijjártó obtained a passport other than Hungarian in the form of an Eastern bank account opening. [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks. ? János Lázár: The pattern is at Béla Kovács.]] I trust your procedure as well. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-134	The Deputy Attorney General is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2014-10-13-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman, I have to tell you that we need to establish an investigation into the fact that it's not a story, it can't be. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] The Criminal Procedure Act contains a categorical provision in this regard, and data on criminal offences must be made available to the prosecution or the investigating authority. [[Noise, interrogations from the ranks of Jobbik, including Előd Novák: and Gábor Simon is free to go.]] If you do so and you provide specific information on the crime, the prosecution will obviously also take the necessary measures. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-136	Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: Why does the government spend less money on energy saving investments involving a wide population than on the stadium construction program? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2014-10-13-137	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2014-10-13-138	You have the floor.
u2014-10-13-139	Dear Secretary of State, In the course of the election campaign, an invitation to tender was published, and then supposedly followed by two other two, which could buy 25-35 thousand forints for the purchase of a new refrigerator for pensioners and family members, 2200 lucky households can replace their windows and 1500 for their boilers. The total budget of 2.7 billion is likely to be exhausted or exhausted in a few days, even though there is an enormous need for a larger programme of energy saving, reaching a wide population. Surveys show that one fifth of households are planning energy modernisation. 41 percent of households who plan to renovate would continue to work because of the high overhead. Most people do not seem to believe that, without energy saving and improving energy efficiency, only the government's reduction campaign could achieve a real reduction in costs. In order to meet the objectives of the government's national building energy strategy, it would be necessary to spend at least HUF 69 billion a year on housing energy efficiency programmes. [[16.50]] So my question is, when are we gonna get there to get at least as much money for retail energy modernisation as for stadiums?
u2014-10-13-140	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We agree perfectly that the cheapest energy is the energy we don't use. Therefore, the government's key objectives are to improve energy efficiency and energy saving and to increase the use of renewable energy in this context. Support for the energy renovation of residential buildings was launched by the first Orbán government in 2001 with the publication of the panel program. Subsequently, proposals are published and published on an annual basis, funded by the domestic budget, using the revenues of the CO2 quota from 2008. 54 percent of the HUF 68 billion funding, i.e. HUF 37 billion, has been allocated to applicants in the government cycle 2010-2014. In order to improve the energy efficiency and technical safety of residential buildings, the government has paid nearly HUF 50 billion in support over the last four years, which allowed energy investments to take place in the homes of more than 220 thousand families. Indeed, at the end of September this year, the development portfolio announced three new tender schemes: in the framework of tenders, it will be possible to replace outdated household appliances, boilers and opening locks with energy efficiency, and by the end of the year, we will announce a tender for complex building energy renovation in condos, so that thanks to a total grant of nearly HUF 13 billion, an additional 44 thousand families will be able to develop energy savings in their homes.
u2014-10-13-142	I give the floor to Congresswoman.
u2014-10-13-143	Secretary of State, we have heard a lot of promises in particular during the campaign periods. A green bank with a capital of HUF 500 billion and a home-greening programme financed by a CO2 quota have been promised. As a matter of fact, the so-called building energy and energy efficiency target continues this year with a ridiculously low amount of HUF 743 million. The contribution to the retail energy costs is a pathetic low amount of HUF 100 million. This also shows how much the government is interested in helping to curb the public's energy costs. I can't accept the answer.
u2014-10-13-144	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-145	Thank you very much. Although the genre of the immediate question does not give us the opportunity to discuss in detail the amounts of this magnitude, I would ask the honourable Member to take into account that, whether the amount of tens of billions so far or the programme to be planned in the next seven years, for which the European Commission's approval is required, it will give us nearly 500 billion dollars of such support. Please don't underestimate this amount, it's a very serious amount. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-146	Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: - Will every child have the opportunity to learn how to swim? It's an address. Minister István Simicskó appointed Secretary of State to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-10-13-147	Yes, thank you very much, of course I accept.
u2014-10-13-148	There you go. You have the floor.
u2014-10-13-149	Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As is well known to us all, the government has, in recent times, made great efforts and made efforts to make physical education more pronounced in schools. The introduction of daily physical education in the system of uplifting means that more and more gymnasiums, gymnasiums and swimming pools are needed. Few children living in small towns and small settlements attend swimming lessons. Currently there are 30 districts in which there are no suitable facilities, because the nearest swimming pool is often tens of kilometers away. From Balassagyarmat, for example, they go to Nagykürtös, Slovakia, on the other side of the border, because the nearest Hungarian swimming pool is located 50 kilometers away in Salgótarján. These schools have to cope with a number of difficulties due to travel, on the one hand, with additional costs that are primarily borne by parents and, on the other hand, with time. In the new public education system, the state took over the maintenance of public education institutions, such as swimming pools, classroom expansions, the construction of new classrooms and gymnasiums. As far as I know, the government has undertaken to prepare a national development plan that could significantly improve public education infrastructure. Based on this responsibility, in my constituency, Győr, for example, a modern swimming pool complex will be handed over in December this year with HUF 3.2 billion of public funding, which will also provide an excellent opportunity to conduct compulsory swimming education for schoolchildren in Győr, in addition to competition sports. The need for movement must be awakened in childhood, which is why the government treats the education of youth and sport as a strategic issue. For a nation to be health conscious, targeted, well - thought - out interventions are needed. On this basis, I ask the honourable Secretary of State whether every child will have the opportunity to learn to swim and what is expected of the national public education infrastructure development programme. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-150	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2014-10-13-151	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You asked me a very important question. The government's determined goal is to raise healthy generations and use sport as a tool for this. Sport carries a lot of value, we all know that. In 2010, we found that 75 percent of our children exercise only during physical education, or exercise. So we decided to introduce everyday physical education. The tangible result is already apparent: 890 thousand children move at least during physical education classes and regularly exercise. We also see that another positive impact of sport-friendly government decisions has already been felt, as there has been a 100,000 increase in the number of certified replacement age athletes, from 230 thousand to 330 thousand. These are tangible results. In 2009, as well, 5 percent of the adult population played sports for people, today this figure tripled: 15 percent. The government's aim is to ensure the conditions for sport, and you mentioned the important aspects of your question, namely whether all Hungarian children can learn to swim. That is indeed our goal. This year, HUF 6 billion is available for school building and gym building, of which we plan to build a total of 23 student hotels and 25 gymnasiums. There will be a school in all walks, so that our children can really master every course of swimming. We supported the Swimming Association with HUF 300 million to enable all children to learn how to swim, and even the government takes over the operation of the school for public costs. I see that we have made very serious efforts and wish to do so in the future, precisely so that our children can play sports, just so that every child can learn to swim. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-152	The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2014-10-13-153	Thank you very much for the floor. I was pleased to hear Mr Secretary of State's detailed and positive reply. Of course I agree with him and accept it. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-154	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-13-155	Let me add, honourable Member, that this is obviously just a first step, a first step in this development. We would like to increase this further in the next year's budget, taking further steps so that this programme can be implemented, so that there is a school in every district, so that children do not have to travel much, and, where appropriate, swimming education can be combined with two physical education classes. It is recalled that in many parts of the country sports halls and swimming pools are being built. In NewBuda, the Spike Hall is completed with two swimming pools, including a 50-metre swimming pool and a 25-metre swimming pool with adjustable sockets, which will be handed over next year. The Tide Swimming Pool will also be expanded, and this will be built for the 2021 water World Championship. The Nyéki swimming pool is added to the XI. in the district. And as you mentioned as a Győr man? I saw the pool construction myself? In fact, this 3.7 billion-dollar swimming pool will provide children in Győr and Győr with very serious opportunities and will be a worthy venue for the European Youth Olympic Festival. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-156	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Do you intend to investigate, Minister? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for an answer.
u2014-10-13-157	Yes, thank you.
u2014-10-13-158	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.00]]
u2014-10-13-159	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you remember that nearly half a hundred police officers raided the Ökotárs Alapítvány headquarters a few weeks ago. I've already asked you about the invasion of civilians by commandos. Unfortunately, I didn't get any evaluable answers. Therefore, I have turned to the national police commissioner, because he is obliged to answer in substance according to the provisions of the law, and he cannot babble as a State Secretary normally does. In addition to his opinion, the Commissioner's response contained two specific points, two important points. On the one hand, the head of the National Bureau of Investigation decided on this measure, and on the other hand, the measure for taxpayers, only if I take the salary of the police arriving on the basis of that day's salary, nothing else, it cost HUF 1 million 249 thousand. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They would have been paid that day anyway.]] I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State, before I ask the questions, that the immediate question is a genre where you have to answer the question that the Member is asking. And since this doesn't always work, I'm gonna remind you of that. What I would like to know, then, is why taxpayers had to spend $1 million of their money on a simple search. Do you not think that it would have been worth at least HUF 1 million of this money to investigate crimes that have not been over for years, rather than using it as a demonstration of force to intimidate civilians? Don't you think, Mr. Secretary, that the Ministry of Interior should order an investigation against the police chief who has decided on this unprecedented measure? And now I would like to highlight what I do not want to hear from you, which I do not care about in your opinion, what you think about the police's activities during the Gyurcsány era, what is the legal background of all this. I would also like to hear your answer on how you feel about criminal proceedings, as a whole. After all, I asked for this specific measure. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-13-160	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for informing me of my rights and opportunities in answering your immediate question, but I would like to say that in this case you asked, there was no mention of intimidation of civilians at all, this is your genre, between 2002 and 2010, right, we know, especially in 2006, even if I know that this is a very bad thing for you to hear. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not what I asked, that's the problem.]] But maybe-maybe they'll learn from it. So in 2006, you intimidated civil society, you tried to beat the peaceful celebrators to death and instruct the police to take other measures that they had no right to do. In the case you have asked, I would also like to state here that the police have acted legally, as far as I know, in relation to the procedures that have been implemented, they have not submitted any remedies. The procedure was legal, the police acted in accordance with the law. On the basis of the legislation, I also said this on the previous occasion, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws are binding on everyone. No one is above the law, not in this case. I'd like to draw your attention so you don't attack the police. They did a lot of harm to the police between 2002 and 2010, now, please don't do that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-162	I give the floor to Congressman for rejoinder.
u2014-10-13-163	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. You don't think it's ridiculous and totally unfair to you that I have to draw attention to what answers I don't want from you, which questions I don't want to receive from you. 'Cause I know you're answering all the same questions. I think he could be at least so demanding of himself that he at least invents some other decoy text, at least chooses some other subject that doesn't belong to my question. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, that it is quite simply ridiculous that you deliberately, deliberately do not answer the questions asked, and that there are so many needs, I say once again, that you do not have at least two or three more answers that you can fire here. Because as you can see, what you answered, I told you in advance that you would do so. This, Mr. Secretary, is not only ridiculous, but unacceptable. And if anything violates Parliament's authority, it's what you do. Well, that's insulting. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-164	Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2014-10-13-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Then you will not be surprised if you have already asked the questions in advance and have answered the question. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What I don't want, right?]] He was very polite. [[János Lázár: Good lawyer.]] At least you weren't surprised at what I said. But really, seriously, I've given you the right answer to the real situation to the best of my knowledge. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: There is little knowledge.]] Honourable Congressman, I'm trying to answer your question, your immediate question, as it were. This happened, I'll say it again. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What happened to the money?]] There was no violation of any kind. You referred to the answer of the national Commissioner-in-Chief, which you received. The police acted legally, and once again, I would like to point out that, as far as I know, no appeal has been filed against police measures. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-166	Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Let us see clearly about the issue of our membership of the EU." Congressman Tibor Bana shall have the floor.
u2014-10-13-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is also important to know that this is not the money of the Union, proportionate to what we are paying into the common register and that multinational companies are taking us out of the country. No, my fellow Members, this sentence was not spoken by a better Member of Parliament or politician, but by Minister Lázár to the Internet portal vasarhely24.hu. This particular interview with Minister Lazarus appeared on Saturday, so I have a strong suspicion that this was primarily part of the municipal election campaign and that these ideas may not necessarily be called sincere. However, if that is the case, it is incomprehensible to me why the proposal of the Jobbik Hungary Movement to set up an ad hoc committee, which would have examined whether we should take stock of our 10-year membership in the EU, should be examined how our country came out of this decade overall, taking into account, of course, the indirect effects, so that we can get a real picture of Hungary's past 10 years in this respect. Of course, this committee should also look at the effectiveness of drawing funds, because if we look back on the multiannual financial cycle 2007-2013, we can see, on the one hand, that we are talking about serious shortcomings in drawing and, on the other hand, that money has gone to prestige investments, not to create jobs for economic recovery purposes. We cannot go without saying that more people think that our country's membership in the EU is disadvantageous than it is beneficial on the basis of polling data, and the further deepening is clearly rejected by Hungarian voters. The results of the European Parliament elections in May also indicate that more and more people in each Member State are rejecting the Europe of bearded women. I ask you, Minister, to answer whether we can have a comprehensive debate on this issue. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-168	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-10-13-169	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Thank you for asking. Indeed, my claim is that when the European Union supports Hungary's catch-up to the European Union average, it is expected that by 2020, we will get back in part the subsidies and the payments that Hungary makes. This budget, the budget of the European Union, will help us to get all the money that large companies operating in the Member States of the European Union exported from Hungary back into our country. I think that the net balance sheet of this should be withdrawn between 2007 and 2013. In the second half of 2015, Parliament will, in committee terms or in any other forum, or in the context of a debate day, have to sum up the experience between 2007 and 2014, given the need to close the European Union cycle by 31 December 2015. I'd like to give you some numbers, which, in support of my statement, I've managed to collect. The register was always positive between 2004 and 2013. In 2007, we were in excess of 1.6 billion euros, in 2009 we were in excess of 2.7 billion euros compared to our deposits. This contributed 3.1 percent to national income. In 2011, we were able to achieve a national income surplus of 4.6 percent, amounting to EUR 4.4 billion. [[17.10]] In 2012, we contributed 3.59 percent to national income, with a surplus of 3.2 billion euros. We were at the peak in 2013: the national income surplus was 5.3 percent, and this was a positive salvo of EUR 5 billion. Under the Partnership Agreement, this will increase even more [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Between 2014 and 2020. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-170	Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2014-10-13-171	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary still wants us to take stock of the ten years of our membership of the European Union and to be clear on this issue. We do not say, of course, that we are net contributors, but what we clearly say is that we are net contributors to this decade if we also take the indirect effects into account. That is why, among other things, we reject the path of the European United States and therefore represent the concept of a Europe of nations, where Member States can properly fulfil their own national self-determination. We welcome the statements and clear commitments made by the government that we want to devote 60% of EU funds to economic development in the next seven-year cycle. Nevertheless, we have doubts about this and, of course, we will follow developments in this regard closely. And I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that he is not shutting down such an initiative, because it is finally time to have a substantive debate on our membership of the Union. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-172	The Minister has the floor.
u2014-10-13-173	Thank you very much. The real question is whether, based on the experience of 2007-13, we can use EUR 34.5 billion from the European Union between 2014 and 2020 to compensate for the economic disadvantages that may arise from integration; this depends on the content of the operational programmes. I consider it a huge victory that 60 percent of what comes from Brussels goes back to the small and medium-sized enterprise sector and 40 percent is translated into human and real infrastructure. This was not the case between 2007 and 2013 because between 2007 and 2013 the SME received 17% of the total funding compared to the 60 per cent currently foreseen. So if Hungary negotiates well and the funds are well distributed and the money is not stolen, then these resources can compensate for the losses that the disadvantages of the economic union are to us. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-174	Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Development an immediate question:. When can the bicycle route between Balf and Upper Cancer be completed? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congressman if he accepts Mr. Major's identity. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-175	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The solution of cycling between the settlements of Fertőrákos and Balf is more than two decades of problems, which the Hungarian government has taken responsibility for. In the first round, back in 2012, the region received HUF 450 million in government support in order to restore existing cycling routes to the 21st century. In line with the quality requirements of the century; and on the other hand, so that the approval and export design documentation of the missing section between Fertőrákos and Balf can be completed, is it further? EU in particular? the involvement of resources to solve the task. Currently, cycling between Balf and Fertőrákos is taking place on the road, and Lake Fertő's cycling is interrupted on this only section. Moreover, the state of the 8526 stretch between Balf and Fertőrákos road should be known as an unacceptable low quality accident risk for road safety, and the missing link is an obstacle to fast, safe and convenient access to multibillion-dollar tourist destinations. There is an extraordinary risk of accidents for cyclists, whose number is increasing. Apart from tourists, it is in the interests of local residents, vineyards and local businesses as well. With the completed plans, the Board of Directors of the Fertő-Hanság National Park and Magyar Közút Nonprofit Zrt. its joint consortium successfully applied last autumn for the EU funds available for the Western Transdanubian operational programme. The necessary funds are available for the implementation of the bicycle path, during the implementation the consortium has made every effort to start the actual work. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I ask the Secretary of State when the bicycle route between Balf and Fertőrákos is expected to be completed, more precisely the cycling route [[The president's ringing again.]] a three-metre-wide agricultural road along the entire length of the vineyards. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-176	The Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In 2013, around HUF 450 million was transferred to the construction and development of the cycling facilities of the Hungarian section, the cycling route along the Fertő region. From this source, the design of the bicycle path and the construction and renovation of certain sections not subject to a construction permit were started. About HUF 700 million is available in the regional operational programme to build the missing sections. This resource was supplemented by an additional HUF 105 million in spring 2014 in the light of the export plans and the final budget. The implementation of the non-licensed sections is expected to start this year, and will be completed by summer 2015. With one exception, all authorised stages have a final building permit, the permits can start next spring and the works can be completed by the end of the summer. As part of the development, we plan to develop cycling lanes and cycling trails in the Fertő-parti settlements. By the Austrian model between Fertőrákos-Balf and Balf-Fertőboz, we make the agricultural roads accessible for cycling. Thank you for asking and for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-13-178	The congressman has the floor.
u2014-10-13-179	Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your answer. Did I really have to ask the question as a Member of Parliament in the region to thank, on the one hand, the 450 million government support that has been made for the development of the existing bicycle route and, on the other hand, the major improvements to be made in the region? which happens to be the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd, the development of infectious cancer? all the reasons why this path should be completed as soon as possible. Thank you for this intention, and thank you for giving greater emphasis to this in the coming time. Is that important? Would I like to stress it again? Because for the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs living here who live on tourism and tourism, it is very important that the Fertő can be cycled around on a European model bicycle road. Indeed, what the Secretary of State said can be used on a three-metre-long agricultural road, and it does indeed promote the existence of farmers and people living in agriculture. Thank you for your reply, and we hope that the trip will be completed in the spring. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-180	[[For signal:]] The Secretary of State does not wish to answer. Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Who is in the interest of meaningless destruction? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr.István Nagy State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the identity of Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2014-10-13-181	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2014-10-13-182	Then you have the floor.
u2014-10-13-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is in Hungary's interest to destroy József Ángyán's Institute and to make organic farming in Kishantos impossible. József Ángyán founded the Institute of Environment and Landscape Management at Szent István University 24 years ago. On 30 September, the Institute was founded on the preservation of natural values and on the renewal of the countryside, and was terminated as a result of long-term, serious attacks. A hundred kilometers from there, the Kishantos Centre for Rural Development managed for 21 years without chemicals, taught farmers from around and far away, and their contract expired, and lost the entire ten parts of their former land. What does the KTI have in common, i.e. between the Institute for Environment and Landscape Management and the Bioeconomy in Kishantos, and their elimination almost at the same time? Both institutions were victims of small-scale political revenge because they were both critics of the Fidesz government and credible critics, since neither József Ángyán is an agricultural engineer, the founder of the KTI, nor the leaders of Kishantos can say that they are not credible people, nor can they be classified as Balliberal. However, the government also wants to set an example for the intellectuals close to it: there is no room for criticism or public criticism in the system of national cooperation. Anyone who doesn't agree, who doesn't get in line, and who doesn't comply with the one camp, one flag, one political principle, will be impossible by the government. [[17.20]] Ángyán József dared to stand up for Kishantos, and, as State Secretary of the Fidesz government, he called on Fidesen's earlier promises. My question is whether it is in Hungary's interest to make this institute and this farming impossible.
u2014-10-13-184	Mr. Secretary of State István Nagy has the floor.
u2014-10-13-185	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congressman, In the case of Kishantos, questions and speeches in this House are repeatedly and several times, always political. It would be so good if we could talk about professional issues in relation to organic farming or landscape management. The answer to his first point, which concerns academic autonomy, is very simple: we do not wish to interfere with the question of university autonomy and do not wish to argue or explain these decisions. Kishantos' question is, in our opinion, a very simple and clear question. The first question is that Kishantos' contract is over. We didn't take anything from anyone. The second question is that this land was not the land of Kishantos, so it is incomprehensible to give it back. This land belongs to the Hungarian state, that is, to all of us. No one disputes that the lease agreement expired on 31 October 2013 and NFA announced the lease right of a total of 452 hectares leased by the company in a public tender on 10 October 2012. In the lease agreement, the new tenants voluntarily committed themselves to farming in the leased areas in accordance with the requirements of the target programme in order to comply with the AKG integrated crop target programme, until the end of the support period of the agri-environmental programme previously undertaken by the Kishantos Centre for Rural Development for a period of five years. By ensuring that competition neutrality is as complete as possible, the tender scheme has enabled all applicants to submit a successful tender. Tender procedure for lease applications [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] has been completed in compliance with all legal provisions. We'll keep going. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-186	Congressman István Ikotity has the floor.
u2014-10-13-187	Unfortunately, this form does not allow me to ask long professional questions. I have already summarized a few in writing, and I will soon send you specific professional questions. However, in response to what has been said, I would like to point out that the end of the support period was 31 August 2014, while the AKG subsidy was in operation. During that time, the new tenants should have been terminated, since no corresponding farming has been carried out in this area. To his other question, the termination of József Ángyán's institute in relation to university autonomy, we will also ask the head of the Institute the questions.
u2014-10-13-188	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-189	Honourable Congressman, As an agricultural engineer myself, I am very happy to be at your disposal at any time, and the professional apparatus of the Ministry of Agriculture is very happy to be at your disposal on all subjects, but especially when it comes to organic farming or organic farming. We are willing to negotiate and find different professional solutions on any professional issue at any time. In the recent question-and-answer, I have already informed you about the plan that the government has prepared, how we intend to increase it from 3 percent to 5 percent in Hungary. We have provided a number of evidence that the Hungarian government and the Ministry of Agriculture consider it exceptionally and very important to support the widespread dissemination of organic farming and organic farming in Hungary. We are very happy to cooperate with LMP on this professional issue, because as a green party, it is natural to put it on its flag, and it is natural to do so. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] that the agricultural portfolio wants to be a partner in this work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-190	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-10-13-191	I'll take it. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-192	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-13-193	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today, nearly two million people are affected by ragweed allergies in Hungary. In the 2009 tax year, the taxpayers were able to offer 1 percent to fight the ragweed. He was more than 177 thousand of our honest and conscious associates who offered more than HUF 1.1 billion of his personal income tax 1 percent to help his fellows, family members, and themselves with illness. However, you, along with many layers of society, do not care about the ragweed allergy, but even the will of responsible taxpayers is ignored. They abuse the trust of voters who try to help and care for others and others. In recent weeks, we have been able to make sure that you are socially irresponsible, because today we are living in a world where public interest data can only be learned through lawsuits. It has become known from the wide publicity of the data through the press that it is a bona fide and well-intentioned offering in vain if the Orbán government uses most of the Hungarians' tax forints offered for deflecting the ragweed completely differently. Mr. Secretary. The voters have entrusted you with 1.1 billion forints, which you have not spent as a careful farmer, but as a pompous landlord. Secretary of State, please tell me what the consequences of this irresponsibleness will be in your ministry. You have shaken the confidence of decent taxpayers in the 1 percent tax institution. That's a legitimate social sin. They are now obliged to restore the confidence of civilians, the foundations that wish to work and the citizens who offer 1 percent of them. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-10-13-194	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-195	Mr President, Dear Congresswoman, On 6 July 2012, the Government adopted a government decision on Hungary's short- and medium-term defence plan against ragweed, which includes the objectives of the protection against ragweed, as well as the tasks and responsibilities to be carried out. The main direction of public engagement against ragweed is prevention, prevention communication, in cooperation with the relevant social organisations. The measures taken to drastically reduce the number of pollen in raggrass are well reflected in the annual change in the maximum daily pollen concentration. In 2010, the highest daily concentration was 1684 pollens per cubic metre, and in subsequent years it gradually decreased, and in 2013 there were only 617 units per cubic metre. Compared to the highest pollen concentration in 2010, measured data decreased by 20.5 percent in 2011, by 48 percent in 2012 and by 63.4 percent in 2013. We do not yet have the final data from this year, but I can promise you that we can count on even better data. In 2011 1 billion HUF 84 million was available in the original chapter-treated appropriation of the Ministry of Rural Development to support the implementation of public protection against ragweed, of which HUF 642 million was transferred in two instalments, to which the Public Finance Act provided for the possibility. I would very much like to stress to you that we have only made a transfer that the Public Finance Act has given us the opportunity to do. Everything you've raised, projected, it hasn't happened, it hasn't. Thank you very much. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: How could it not be?]]
u2014-10-13-196	The congresswoman has the floor.
u2014-10-13-197	Dear Secretary of State, 177 thousand honest and bona fide taxpayers have dedicated that 1 percent specifically to deflecting ragweed. However, instead of deconstructing contaminated areas, you spent the money on severance payments, car purchases, in October after the ragweed season, on appearance at the festival, on daily operations, on various events, on computers and on ministry offices. It is outrageous and unacceptable that the will of taxpayers has been ignored. Now, I call upon you to identify the responsible party responsible for screwing over 177,000 taxpayers. [[17 .30]] Who is responsible for failing to create legislation in 2010, which would guarantee the use of the tax forints offered?
u2014-10-13-198	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-199	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Once again, I would like to say that all the transfers that have taken place have been made by the Public Finance Act. Between 2006 and 2009, the previous government spent HUF 3.5 billion directly and indirectly on the control of ragweed, which is a multiple of the current government's spending on the discharge of ragweed. The amount spent directly and indirectly between 2011 and 14 is HUF 52 billion, which significantly exceeds the previous amount. The effective protection against ragweed is also supported by the public employment programme, and I would like to point out that in 2014, after the planned three-time mow, there was a fourth reaping due to the strong ragweed infection. At the four stages, 13 536 hectares of ragweed were exempted with the involvement of 70 662 people. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-200	Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Do you support it? Is the government setting up a health screening centre in the city of Devecser? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2014-10-13-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in his speech before the agenda, the voters gave a verdict. That's right, the voters also passed a verdict in the Devecser settlement in Veszprém County, giving a judgment on the activity that the governing party has done in recent years, in their interest, by the government-led city. Since yesterday, the town of Devecser has had a better leadership, and the Fidesz leadership has been replaced by voters. After the red sludge disaster, it was important for you to have Devecser as long as it was possible to capitalise on political capital, but the cause of damages and health effects went on for a very long time. To date, the effects of dust from red sludge reservoirs continue to accumulate in the body for many years, and in many cases the disease occurs much later, and the citizens of Devecser continue to worry about their health. In many Devecers, respiratory disease, which is clearly linked to the dusting of red sludge reservoirs and the period after the red sludge disaster. I think that the people of Devecser deserve to initiate the establishment of a permanent health screening centre in cooperation with the state, the government, with the city leadership of Devecser. It is clear that the city of Devecser does not have the proper source for this, and can only do so in cooperation with the government. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr.Gábor Ferenczi's message from the newly elected mayor: is the government a partner in setting up a continuously functioning health screening centre in Devecser to ensure the health and peace of the people there in terms of the red sludge disaster and their fears about the prolonged pollution of dust? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-202	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2014-10-13-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government health screening centre in Devecser operated under the professional supervision of the GNA from 15 December 2010 until 31 December 2011. During that time, Devecser provided the inhabitants of the city and the eight settlements affected by the mud disaster. The main task of the screening centre was to examine the questions about the supposed effects of red sludge, to monitor the health status of the population affected by the sludge disaster, to provide continuous, accurate data to the National Institute for Environmental Health and to carry out general screenings. pulmonary, internal, paediatric, ear-nose, ophthalmic, surgical and gynaecological studies were conducted at the screening centre on the basis of a reservation. From 1 March 2011 samples were also carried out for the determination of heavy metals in urine. The studies carried out consisted of several parts, a detailed questioning of previous diseases, medications, complaints, harmful passions, an assessment of complaints during or after the injury, a detailed physical examination, in particular with regard to possible bite-related injuries, pulmonary and upper respiratory tract irritable and/or hypersensitivity symptoms. I could continue: lung function test with one of the most modern type of measuring devices, clinical laboratory tests with 25 different parameters, monthly lung screening with the assistance of the Malta Loving Service mobile lung filtration station, and other specialist tests were carried out there. The doctor's office provided further care for the patient who was screened for any reason. Taking into account the repeated appearances, the services of the screening centre were used in a total of 4677 times. Most came from Devecser and Kolontár, the two most flooded settlements, two thirds of them women? And I'll continue from here for a minute. Thank you.
u2014-10-13-204	Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-10-13-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What you have read is also apparent from the need for the screening centre, and not only in the year it worked, but in the year it would still be needed. One year after the red mud disaster, you came down from the area, you took your hands off Devecher, but the people of Devecher stayed there and continue to suffer the adverse effects of this disaster. Once again, many years later the effects of these respiratory diseases and the continuous inhalation of this corrosive, alkaline red sludge powder have occurred for months afterwards, even after the poor coverage of the red sludge reservoir, as the dust was carried by the wind. This effect has now been reduced or eliminated in the settlement, but in order to ensure the safety and health assessment of the people living there, it would be necessary for this screening centre to operate continuously and to filter citizens and people living in Devecser at regular intervals. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-206	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-10-13-207	Thank you very much. So I'd like to continue: lab tests had the highest rate of appearance. In order to obtain complex results, many of them did not go back to this screening centre in the face of negative results and lack of complaint. However, the operation of the screening centre in this 5,000 studies reflects the successful implementation of the government decision. A large number of people visited the screening centre, questions about people were answered, and it was possible to detect and treat health damage in time for everyone. It is also important to note that, on the other hand, there has been a health development office in Devecser, which ensures the organisation of the necessary screenings in the long term, so the health and protection of the local population is ensured. To the people of Devecser? This 5,000 tests will tell us? the state of health, as demonstrated by the experience and complex results of the screening centre, shows, is no worse than the average of other regions in the country. Therefore, there is no need to set up a new health screening centre, but the health development office will continue to protect the health of those there. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-208	Thank you. That concludes the immediate questions. Here are the questions. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister about the results of his first visit abroad. It's an address. [[János Lázár: He has brought great results.]] Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2014-10-13-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, His first trip abroad led to Bratislava, where he met the Slovak Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister, and visited the Hungarian Community Party. Before that, he said that there are many hot topics in the relationship between Slovakia and Hungary, but in order to successfully discuss them, common success stories need to be built. Did Viktor Orbán promise to start his new government now? I quote:? The sensitive issues may also be on the agenda in the relationship between the two countries, but so far there has been no sign of this, let us add, before that. Foreign Minister Navracsics visited Bratislava on June 30, after the talks he stated that everyday Slovak-Hungarian relations work well. Compared to this, Minister in Bratislava did not mention to his Slovak colleague the disorder of dual citizenship, the disorder of the language law. The question arises: will the Hungarian Government give any assistance to those who have been deprived of Slovak citizenship? Many have to be proud in the greatest secret of one of the most uplifting moments of their lives. We understand that neither Tibor Navracsics nor Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó expressed any concerns about the Slovak citizenship law, the language law and the Slovak government's policy of ignoring minorities. We believe that it is a huge mistake to sweep these unsettled problems under the carpet in order to say that relationships are excellent. The Hungarians in the Highlands will certainly see this differently. I therefore ask, Minister, what results have been achieved by the first visit by Foreign Minister abroad. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-10-13-210	I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Szijjártó. [[17.40]]
u2014-10-13-211	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for raising this question. I will also take the opportunity to inform you of what was on the agenda at the bilateral meeting in Bratislava. The themes can basically be divided into two groups. Did the first bouquet really include issues that underpin the success story of our cooperation, such as energy, transport and external trade cooperation; the second bouquet? And isn't that, of course, a priority? so-called hot topics. We agreed with Minister for Foreign Affairs Lajčák that we do not have to put our heads in the sand here, we do not have to pretend that everything is okay, that there are hot topics that we need to discuss. However, honourable Member, as I have once had the opportunity to exchange ideas with you at the hearing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I can tell you that I do not think that it is in the national interest here to ask for itself, but to resolve these questions. I think that if I had not been willing to do anything in this situation at the first meeting to discuss these issues, I think that I would have taken away the opportunity to discuss these issues successfully for many years. I would therefore like to inform you, with all due respect, my fellow Member, that we have remained in it with the Minister, and I have also informed your fellow Member of this in the seven-party consultation that, in parallel with the construction of these success stories, we will establish a list of so-called hot topics. We also raised a few at the meeting, whether the issue of language use or the issue of Hungarian educational institutions in Slovakia, and we will discuss these issues in due course. At the same time, we also agreed on one thing: we will certainly not be sending messages to each other in public through the Danube and going to a kind of pressure yelling, but, as mature, wise European citizens, we will take these questions [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] solve it with each other. That's what I can tell you for now. On 10 November, when I meet with the representatives of the parties in the next round, I hope that I will be able to give you more information on what has been happening until then. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-10-13-212	Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice a question with the title "The Protection of Our Children." I give the floor to the congressman.
u2014-10-13-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, crime against minors and their nature have come to light, forcing legislation to take more radical action to sanction and prevent them. To do so, the pro-government initiative is not enough to ensure that sexual crimes committed to the harm of minors do not lapse; much more serious measures are needed. An example of this is our initiative to ensure that the whereabouts of those who committed such crimes are data of public interest. You see the United States as the citadel of democracy in many things, and you often follow them as a loyal henchman. This procedure is laid down in the legislation in force. Don't you think it's a practice that should be followed over many others? Of course, I am aware of these reflexive concerns, such as the question of personal rights or the protection of the physical integrity of offenders from attacks that may arise. It should also be part of the rule of law that, where justified, the rights of the majority or more vulnerable groups, in this case the protection of children, are limited to the rights of others. Is it up to the legislator's wisdom to make legislation? Finding the golden middle ground? provide more protection to potential victims, but also protect the defendant from unlawful attacks, vigilante behaviour, and leave the law enforcement officer, such as the judges in the case, a certain margin of discretion to determine the nature of the measure on the basis of the nature of the crime, its circumstances, the degree of resociation or recovery of the perpetrator. Dear Secretary of State, I know very well that I am aware that the effectiveness of these measures, even of these measures, may depend on how the social and child protection care system works or how the child protection signalling system works? Of course, I know it's another department's business. But do they not think that more radical measures should have been taken in the past to prevent these crimes, to provide more protection for our children. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-214	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2014-10-13-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for asking, Congressman. Your question is based on today's motion by the Members of the Judicial Committee, in which a parliamentary resolution proposal would have been tabled, but the committee did not include it in a series of subjects. Of course, I will also be curious to read the committee's minutes on the reasons for rejecting it. As far as the substance is concerned, it is very important to clarify that we could talk about the concept of public data in the public interest here, so such personal data could be considered as public data in the public interest rather than data in the public interest. However, according to the permanent practice of the Constitutional Court, this can only be limited to constitutional requirements, i.e. the fundamental right to do so, where the achievement of the intended objective is also a very serious, strong argument, and it is indeed justified to limit this right of personality. I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Justice has already raised the question of the extent and depth of the prisoner's data, given that judgments are announced by the court at a public hearing. There is, therefore, a contradiction between the protection of personal data and the publicity of the hearing, because, based on the publicity of the trial, anyone can in principle be informed of who has been sentenced to what, and we know well that, on the other hand, this appears in the newspapers, obscured and anonymized. So what I can promise you is that in the future, we will examine this legal question, how to reconcile the publicity of the trial and personal data. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-10-13-216	Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "We are beyond the elections, can social workers be forgotten now? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2014-10-13-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, we were shocked to learn that at the last moment, the signing of an agreement with representatives of the Social Sectoral Strike Commission following a series of negotiations that lasted almost a year has failed. The reason for the EMMI was that there were formal problems, and there were still legal issues to be clarified, and then called on the leaders of interest representation to explain. After the consultation, the EMMI issued a completely meaningless communication, and they did not even do enough to at least ensure that workers in the social and child protection area would be able to see the draft social career model, including wage planning, before the government this year. No promises, just another delay? For obvious reasons? As we've been getting used to by the Ministry, I'm afraid. Over the past few months, I have personally examined the situation, and I have been shocked to see what conditions there are. I also noticed that the government, in its 2010 programme, promised to give moral and financial recognition to workers in the social and child welfare and child protection sectors, social workers, family care providers, daycare workers. What happened to that? In the year before the elections, a strike committee had to be set up for sectoral workers at all in order to talk to them from the Ministry, not to mention that the Ministry finally announced the social sector bonus system unilaterally by circumventing negotiating partners. I would add that the bonus system is not a real wage increase, it is not built into the lease, it is just a few thousand forints plus in a sector where the average wage is 68 thousand forints and 92,000 employees are involved. It is also clear that all of us who go out into the field and look at the situation, that the social and child protection system is slowly collapsing in this country, there are no adequate financial, physical or personal conditions for these people to be able to do their job. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when there will finally be an agreement on the introduction of a social career model in this country, and when will the workers in this country get the promised [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] A salary increase equal to a salary increase for health professionals. Thank you for your reply.
u2014-10-13-218	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-10-13-219	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, As you said, as the government was able to start the wage increase policy after 2013, since we now had the national economy fund, we went by sector, by group? Could they have been cops, teachers, doctors, especially GPs or residents, even younger? We've been trying to give you some kind of bonus, some kind of raise, some kind of career. As the performance of the economy constantly allows, we can raise them. It doesn't depend on whether it's random or sympathetic when you can get a raise. You know that teachers have not had a wage increase in Hungary since 2002, so when the government looked at which sector to carry out a comprehensive career introduction or a comprehensive wage increase, it chose teachers because they were the ones who had not received any wage increases in the longest period. [[17.50]] We also sat down with the six trade unions in this sector, as you mentioned, representing about 93,000 workers. Several working groups started discussions, discussions, and part of this was that from this year on, we were able to give a fee of 5 to 11 percent, to whom we were able to give a fee of 10 to a few thousand forints, whether professional workers or technical workers. We all had this sectoral pay gap, and it was in this year's budget. We see this as the first step of this kind of wage-raising policy, which is indeed not a huge amount, but it is bigger than what they have received in recent years in this sector, because these people are doing work, physically and humanly burdensome work that we all want to recognise more, more financially, and also improve their working conditions. That is why the negotiations are ongoing. If it was a technical error, we will try to eliminate the fact that the Deputy Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Minister met in person. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] these representatives and other trade unions have, in the meantime, entered into these negotiations, so they will continue. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-220	Dear Parliament, Bene Ildikó, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: why is Eastern opening good for the country and what does it mean for the Szolnok region? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-13-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, After the change of regime, by the mid-1990s, Szolnok's long-standing factories and factories, with a few exceptions, ceased to exist and were privatized. About tens of thousands of people lost their jobs, a lot of families lost their jobs. It is a sad fact that the Balliberal Government of that time made the situation seem to be a natural process. The nightmare of the nearly 100 - year - old sugar factory still lives in the heart of every Szolnok local patriot. In 2006, the elected right-wing municipality, under the leadership of Mayor Ferenc Szalay, started to lay the foundations for a new industrial structure. We have brought many new investors to Szolnok, and we have succeeded in strengthening older ones, thinking about the Stadler train factory, the Béres drug factory, the huge plant of Eagl Ottawa or the new power MÁV Vehicle repairer. The work has not yet been completed, in Szolnok we laid the foundation stone of the citric acid factory, which was built from HUF 34 billion, in a joint investment in Hungary and China in early September. According to preliminary estimates, the citric acid factory, which has been built over a year and a half, creates 440 new jobs, producing around 60 thousand tonnes of citric acid per year for food, pharmaceuticals and the chemical industry. This requires the processing of 106,000 tons of corn, which also provides an excellent opportunity for farmers living in the Szolnok region. Dear Minister, Please inform me of how the current investment in Szolnok fits into the government's Eastern opening policy and the state and municipal revenue the Cabinet expects beyond the improved employment figures. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-10-13-222	I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2014-10-13-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for asking. Allow me to tell you that we have come to a dimension of the Eastern opening policy, for which the investment in Szolnok is an excellent example, because in the first phase of the Eastern Opening Strategy, we have focused on taking our footstep on export markets, in Hungarian, to help as many Hungarian companies as possible in the markets of Asian countries, and to increase our exports. In this respect, China is beginning to have a strange success story. Last year, we made the highest exports of all time to China, as we had never before had 2 billion dollars in exports. If we look at the first six months of this year, we see that we have achieved another 10 percent increase. And today, there is good hope that we can make another record at the end of this year. But we are now in the next phase when more and more job-creating investments are coming from the countries of Eastern opening, including China, one of which will undoubtedly benefit from Szolnok and its neighbourhood, given that we have managed to agree with one of the largest companies producing citric acid in China to bring the production activity to Hungary, namely Szolnok. Almost all of this will be exported, so virtually European market demand will be served from here. The HUF 34 billion investment is expected to create 440 new jobs in and around Szolnok. In addition, with the expansion of exports, it will make a significant contribution to the overall performance of the Hungarian national economy. Not to mention that this investment will be another market for hundreds of farmers living in the area, which means that the importance of this investment will not only be significant for the eastern opening strategy, but also for the entire national economy, not only beyond the borders of Szolnok. Thank you very much for the help you and the city leadership in Szolnok have provided in attracting this investment to Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-224	Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-10-13-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, my questions would be as follows. Do you want to play tricks on the end-of-year government debt statement? Are there any changes planned to the fundamental parts of the regulation, i.e. to the government debt data and the level of government debt? And who will be responsible if, this year, the government debt is not fulfilled in accordance with the budget law, but higher? I'm asking you this because on June 30, the MNB said that the government debt was 25,437 billion. The budget records this at 23 559 billion. So now they're up to 1,800 billion. Unfortunate amount! My question about tricks is well founded, because on 6 December 2013, when it was discovered that there were 22 728 billion sovereign debt figures, and this is higher than the planned budget, you, with the involvement of the State Debt Center, with a very interesting bonding process, have practically for a few days removed part of the government debt on paper. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So they managed to close the year by 21,999 billion. Miracles of wonders what God does, it turns out a few days later that the sovereign debt data has risen again. No wonder, of course, because the machine couldn't last forever. To my questions, Mr Secretary of State, please give me a clear answer and, if you can, explain why in five years now, in four and a half years, a reduction in public debt has not been achieved. In this fight, you are losing, and the battlefield reports are being forged, and you are not trying to win, as I see it. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2014-10-13-226	Welcome. We will continue to work and Mr Tukacs will answer the question of Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, After all, this concern is special for you. When you were on government in eight years, public debt increased by more than 30 percent, with more than HUF 12,000 billion in total. When your prime minister talked about hundreds of tricks, where was this concern, Congressman? [[István Tukacs: András, isn't this a bit boring?]] That's the political part. And the professional part is this. You know that a football match is made up of two half-times. Now you're trying to draw conclusions from the June data and ask the government, the Ministry, to make sure there will be a trick in this. There won't be any tricks, Congressman. You had it, the trick. [[István Tukacs: Last year it was, András!]] The fact is, it is a general fact that during the first half of the year, the budget has a higher amount of funds and funds are also involved in repayments due in the second half in the first half of the year. That's what happened. For example, in July there was a one billion HUF repayment, and now in November there will be a two billion HUF loan repayment. By the way, you took this loan, and now, you see, we're gonna pay you back. [[István Tukacs: Amazing!]] If you look at the third quarter data and did not refer to the June data, it would be around 81 percent, and if you were to deduct about 2 percent from it, you would realize that with the November repayment you will already be below the 31 December of the previous year and the government debt will decrease. But thank you for the congressman's concern. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.00]]
u2014-10-13-228	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has travelled to Bratislava, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs has remained at home. Congressman, you have the floor, please.
u2014-10-13-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dániel Szűcs, the publicist of the news portal, led to the Slovak colleague of your first official journey, about which the foreign economic and foreign minister only travelled to Bratislava yesterday. What, during the meeting? Despite what you have said here - the problems of the Hungarians in the Highlands have not really been raised, whether it is the Beneš Decrees, the Malina Hedvig case, but we can continue the list with the Slovak citizenship, language and flag law or the failure to investigate police officers in Dunaszerdahely. The Hungarian communities in other regions are no better, Minister. For example, in recent years, the Hungarian government has not been able to show any meaningful success in the case of territorial autonomy, despite the promise of Ukrainian President Porosenko, it has not provided a Hungarian majority constituency, the enlistings and the deployment of Ukrainian refugees in Hungarian villages continue. The Székely flag is still being persecuted by Romanian power, the Hungarian majority counties are under threat of integration into Romanian majority districts, and the case of the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Târgu Mures is not progressing. The Hungarian government still refuses to impose any conditions for the Serbian accession, while the collective guilt of the Hungarians of Mozsor, Csúrog and Zsablya has not been abolished to this day, despite the promise that this was made, just as the Serbian head of state did not apologize for the massacre of tens of thousands of Hungarians in southern Hungary in 1944-45. The Hungarians from abroad could not expect much from the Atlantist Ministry of Foreign Affairs, led by János Martonyi and Zsolt Németh, but we are saddened to find that you have also started on the path of foreign policy and diplomacy, which is a compromise in national matters, emphasising the importance of dialogue, but dealing with the problems of the foreign parts of the nation as a multiple. In fact, are we there now? referring to my fellow Member Kiss's previous question? That the Socialist Party is asking you for strong national interest and representation. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether you wish to visit the neighbouring countries as Minister of Foreign Affairs and whether the representation of the interests of Hungarian communities abroad will finally become a priority for Hungarian diplomacy. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-230	Thank you very much. Minister Péter Szijjártó responds. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2014-10-13-231	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for asking, in particular, that you asked about a challenge that is undoubtedly present among the priorities of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I fully agree with you when I can tell you that there are a number of unresolved issues, a number of very important challenges currently facing Hungarian foreign affairs governance in terms of cooperation with neighbouring countries, especially when it comes to Hungarian national minorities living in the territory of that country. I would ask you for your patience and fairness in saying, in three weeks, that you may not draw any conclusions on what I have achieved in this area. Can I brief you on my visit to Bratislava? I also did this to Congressman Gyöngyösi when he took part in the consultation that I regularly conducted with the parties represented in Parliament last week? that before I went to Bratislava, of course I consulted the leader of the Party of the Hungarian Community, and immediately after the meetings I visited them, sat down with them and consulted again. Among other things, following the consultation with them, I raised to the Slovak Foreign Minister that we see that the mixed committee system between the two countries, which is intended to offer the right professional solutions to political decisions, has completely failed over the past period, and so, in line with the proposal of the MKP, I proposed to reorganize this entire Joint Committee operational system, because this does not make any sense in the world. We have been given an opening, and Minister for Foreign Affairs Lajčák, at the press conference, said that they do not want to lose more citizens, if you like, this is a good starting point for finding a truly European solution to these issues, which are undoubtedly present and which I do not want to deny or ignore, because they are among the most important issues to be resolved. Therefore, I can tell you with respect, Congressman, that I ask you to continue to observe my travels as foreign minister to the neighbouring country, and I can promise you that the most important issues at every trial are the issues of the local Hungarian national community, and, of course, I am open to any kind of consultation in this matter if you have insights from a Member or his party in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-232	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The sickbed is in the home of the patient! Why doesn't the government spend more resources on home care? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2014-10-13-233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Was it held on 18 September 2014? Organized by the Hungarian Home Care and Hospice Association? CHAPTER XVI home-care convention, the most important annual event of home care and hospice. ? did all associations, professional and public administrations, interested in home care, speak at a convention and report on this? In the field? The current system is facing a huge fallback. Was the lack of funding a unified position that it has not been able to achieve in the past four years? Government change in substance. Is there currently around HUF 4 billion in funding and funding for home care, which is still available? It's hardly enough to maintain the system at present, let alone? The need for progress is indisputable. Home care can be an outstretched arm of the hospital, so it can reduce hospital expenses, relieve burdens? Outpatient clinics, and you can reduce them? duration of recovery. ? The development of the area creates additional jobs and provides a job for graduates who migrate abroad without a competitive salary or a job close to their place of residence. In the end, what is it? The treatment of patients in their homes also increases confidence in the healthcare system. ? This is because there is currently no possibility to prescribe home care after one day of surgery. ? Some of the doctors still don't know that they can prescribe this kind of care? for patients who have it, do you rarely prescribe it, and also? Rehabilitation visits are still untied? chronic home care. Is that gonna come up? Question is, why isn't he acting? government effectively for this? territory? I mean, in his development, what? with the involvement of additional resources? the cost of hospitals would be reduced, could you provide new jobs, livelihoods? to care professionals, and to compensate for the current unfair situation of healthcare that has already been treated as a stepchild. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Worth it? And to the government it is well noted: the sickbed? He's in a sick home. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-234	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-235	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, besides prevention, chronic patient care, including home care, is a priority for the government. It sets out a number of important objectives for the infrastructure development of the health system within the framework of the operational programme for the development of human resources, including capacity building to enhance the role of short-term solutions that trigger inpatient care linked to structural change, and the creation of the related primary care, public health and outpatient institutions. Does this include, inter alia, reducing access differences, increasing patient satisfaction, improving services that trigger inpatient care? What did you say? , to strengthen home care services and to develop mobile specialist services and existing services. I would like to inform the honourable Member that, for home care, the provisions of Article 217/1997 have been met. under government regulations, the patient is entitled if the service is ordered by the general practitioner instead of hospital care, but one-day surgical care may be performed in the event of interventions after which the patient is able to return to the patient's self-sufficiency by escort or even by himself to his home. May I also remind you that developments have taken place over the past four years? They're a pretty good number? which, of course, we intend to continue on the basis of the above. For example, we shortened the time for the evaluation of contracts received at the National Health Insurance Fund for home care and hospice services, and after the amendment, the service can be used more quickly. By simplifying the care documentation, we reduced the administrative burden on service providers and made it easier to order a service. New number codes have been added to the service, ministerial decrees for children's hospice services, both children's and adult hospice have been added to the name of the activity with the possibility of an institutional hospice palliative outpatient care, which is also important. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At the end of 2012 the budget will be increased by HUF 240 million for home care, from HUF 3200 to HUF 3380 for home care, and the daily allowance for home hospice provision. [[The president's ringing again.]] It grew from HUF 3840 to HUF 4056. Thank you very much for your patience. [[18.10]]
u2014-10-13-236	Thank you very much. I would also ask the questioner to comply with the house rules, so that the next item is on the agenda at the right time, since the questions are closed. Dear Parliament, A legislative proposal between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on the abolition of double taxation in the field of income taxes and prevention of tax evasion, signed in Manama on 24 February 2014, and a bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the prohibition of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in Riyadh on 23 March 2014; and a joint general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Jersey on the publication of the Convention on the exchange of tax information signed in London on 28 January 2014 until closure. Presentations T/61, T/62. and T/63. available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to conduct a detailed debate on the proposals. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, rapporteur of the points on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-237	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In February 2014, the Kingdom of Bahrain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia entered into an agreement in March 2014 on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation. In the case of Saudi Arabia, the Convention also covers the territory of property taxes. The agreements were signed in Manama and Riyadh after the government's decision. The agreement excludes double taxation of incomes of individuals and businesses, specifying the scope of which Contracting State has the right to taxation for each type of income or type of property. The Conventions allow the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties to exchange information and also to initiate a conciliation procedure for the implementation of the agreements. The content of the contracts complies with international practice, the principles and rules adopted in the OECD Model Convention and its commentary. They are also in line with the other bilateral tax conventions that we have concluded so far, and serve the development of bilateral relations and the interests of investors. Dear Parliament, The third bill before you contains the agreement on the exchange of tax information concluded with the Government of Jersey in January 2014. International agreements on the exchange of information on tax matters give the tax authority the opportunity to obtain the necessary information in relation to specific tax matters. This will improve transparency in tax matters and reduce the potential for tax avoidance. The Convention was based on the OECD Model Agreement. The main objective of the conclusion of the contract is to regulate the exchange of tax information. In the document, the Parties undertake to assist each other by exchanging tax information, including bank information, which is important for the implementation and enforcement of the internal laws of the Contracting Parties. For example, information that may be necessary to establish the tax, to levy and collect taxes, to collect taxes or to prosecute criminal tax cases may be included. The Convention provides, as a guarantee rule, for both Contracting Parties to initiate a reciprocal conciliation procedure where difficulties or doubts arise in the implementation or interpretation of the Convention between the Parties. Dear Parliament, In order for the international treaties on the agenda to become part of domestic law, it is necessary to recognise their binding scope and publish them in law. In view of the fact that the Conventions concern an exclusive legislative object, their publication should only take place by law. Based on what you've said, I ask you to accept the bill. Thank you.
u2014-10-13-238	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speech will now be held by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-239	[[Without loudspeaker]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Kingdom of Bahrain, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia...
u2014-10-13-240	Congressman, I'm sorry, but your card's not in there. I'd like to see if your card's in there, please.
u2014-10-13-241	We found the cause of the mistake.
u2014-10-13-242	Success, Congressman, so I suggest that, since your previous sentences have not been heard by anyone but you to make the story round, you start over. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: I heard it.]]
u2014-10-13-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation with the Kingdom of Bahrain and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is to regulate taxation and make it predictable in bilateral relations. The conclusion of the tax convention provides a more favourable, transparent economic and legal background for investors of both parties, so by concluding the agreement, we can expect economic relations to recover and capital investment to increase. I would like to comment on the fact that, in the case of the agreement with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the scope of the convention covers income taxes and property taxes, while in the case of the agreement with the Kingdom of Bahrain, only income taxes. The MSZP supports the adoption of the two legislative proposals. With regard to the agreement on the exchange of information on tax matters with the Jersey Government, the Contracting Parties consider the strengthening of cooperation between authorities and the exchange of information on tax matters as an effective means of preventing international tax fraud and evasion. The exchange of information between tax authorities has been given particular attention on the international stage over the last decade, both by the European Union and by the OECD. The main objective of concluding the Convention on the exchange of tax information between Hungary and Jersey is to regulate the exchange of tax information in bilateral relations. The conclusion of the Convention provides extensive opportunities for requesting, requesting and exchanging information to detect and reduce tax evasion and avoidance. Contracting Parties may assist through the exchange of information through their competent authorities. This information is expected to be important for the implementation and enforcement of the internal laws of the Contracting Parties in respect of taxes covered by the Convention; including information which is likely to be relevant for the determination, levy and collection of such taxes, for the recovery and enforcement of tax claims or for investigations or prosecutions in tax matters. The taxes covered by the convention in Hungary are personal income tax, corporate tax, land tax, construction tax, general sales tax, excise duty, and in Jersey income tax and product and service tax. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will also support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-244	Thank you very much. I would like to ask if the political groups would like to present the group's position. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't think so. [[For signal:]] I can see now that Mr. Schiffer has signaled. You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-13-245	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that, of course, we obviously support all agreements which are intended to avoid tax evasion, but in relation to the agreements before us, it should be precisely said that this convention alone, which, for example, was previously concluded with Jersey, Guernsey, or announced by the Hungarian Parliament, is not sufficient. [[18.20]] I would first like to make some comments on the agreement on the exchange of tax information with the Jersey Government. Do not have any illusion, these bilateral agreements alone are not suitable for preventing the brutal outflow of income that has hit Hungary in the direction of offshore tomatoes since the regime change, or for blocking the money pump that is causing a significant part of the income generated here to go to such offshore tomatoes. Is it worth recalling here? I did this when the Parliament discussed the announcement of the treaty with Guernsey? that since the change of regime, Hungarian government debt has migrated to offshore tomatoes about two and a half times over the last 25 years. If this amount had remained in Hungary, the various austerity packages, Bokros-, Gyurcsány-, Bajnai- and Orbán- or Matolcsy packages would not have been necessary. And at this point it is worth remembering that, according to some calculations, there are at least ten thousand citizens in Hungary today, who park about two thousand billion HUF worth of property in offshore. I am obliged to say this because Hungary, the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian Parliament, will do its utmost if, beyond the conclusion and ratification of bilateral agreements of this type, it takes clear and clear initiatives to eradicate tax havens. We have not seen very much that, even in the last four years, the Hungarian government has taken independent initiatives within the European Union to eradicate tax havens, since it cannot be silenced, for example, by the United Kingdom? which is a Member State of the European Union? the responsibility of talking here about areas that belong to the United Kingdom from the point of view of state law, but are a form of ailum for the various tax fraudsters. And we cannot rest ourselves on such bilateral agreements at a time when Fidesz-KDNP has conducted a rather two-faced policy on offshore over the past four years. There is no doubt that the Fundamental Law contains a forward-looking provision to keep companies with non-transparent ownership structures away from public funds, but that is not exactly true for subcontractors' nets. On the other hand? Let's be clear. We can distinguish at least two groups of offshore. One of them is what the Fundamental Law treats, in a way, but at least? as opposed to the previous legal situation - : this offshore concept concerns when the ownership structure is not transparent, so we do not see exactly who is at the end of the chain. But there's another category of offshore. The LMP also stated in a bill that we listed areas on the globe today from A to O, where if a company, the ultimate owner of a company, is likely to be tax avoidance, and we say that if, for example, a person is registered in Belize or the Cayman Islands, Seychelles, he should be excluded from any transaction that is made by local governments, public authorities, he should not be able to go near EU funds or public funds at all. You have rejected this proposal and voted against it. Why? I'm not really expecting an answer from Secretary of State of Tallai right now, but maybe if we look at how the investments in Belize, Seychelles, rose in 2011-12? Here the good fellow Members also asked a question about this last year, the day before last, and I myself? How strange that, even after the Fidesz government took office, development funds have been won by companies whose ownership ties point to such small republics. But to this day, there is still a property in downtown Budapest that even the Demszky city administration has tamed to a joint-owned consortium in the Seychelles and Marshall Islands, and even though it has been four years from the city leadership of István Tarlós and the Fidesz-KDNP country, you have not done anything to stop such criminal transactions and to save the public property with the right legal measures. But it is understandable that Fidesz's reluctance, because, for example, the problem around the Eiffel Palace again points to the fact that the Hungarian State and the Hungarian National Bank are entering into contracts with a circle of owners whose threads also point to offshore tomatoes. The proposal and claim of the LMP is clear: by law, we forbid state, municipal companies and bodies to enter into any legal transaction with offshore companies. I believe that the subject bores Mr. State Secretary very much; and I am very bored by the fact that in the last quarter of a century there has been a great deal of money coming out of this country, and that this issue has not been important to the changing, colorful governments. [[András Tállai: Law, Law...]] I'm talking about the law, I'm talking about the treaty, Mr. Secretary of State, that ratification of this convention alone in a given world is not going to solve anything. The solution would be that if LMP's proposal to sweep the offshore knights out of Hungary is to ban companies that are considered offshore either because of the lack of transparency of the ownership structure or because of the strings leading to the tax havens listed here, it should not be possible to register such companies in Hungary. These companies are typically damaging the actors in the domestic SME sector. And then would the Hungarian government, Mr. Secretary of State, take a real step forward if they could finally accept our proposal, which is about offshore companies? Should that be any kind of offshore? Hungarian public bodies, local government bodies shall not enter into any legal transaction, buy real estate, sell real estate, or allow such companies to be included in public procurement or EU development subcontractors' nets. If they do not do so, the public wealth, the income generated here, can continue to be pushed out to Belize, Cayman Islands, Seychelles through a cash pump. We know very well that this is actually for the purpose of various political figures hiding in the dark and other such profiteers simply stealing public wealth. I am very surprised that Fidesz does not feel the responsibility of the two-thirds majority to do exactly what it could do, but if we look at the fact that, for example, the Fidesz majority municipalities or the Matolcsy central bank are very keen on doing business with such companies, then perhaps we can understand the reason for the contraction. And I have one more unpleasant question to ask about the ratification of the T/62 Convention. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that the date of this convention gives us an indication of the circumstances under which this convention was established. It was concluded in Riyadh on 23 March 2014. What happened on 23 March 2014 in the capital of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia? What happened was that there was a government delegation and the government delegation was led by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. This would not be particularly interesting, but the government delegation led by Viktor Orbán was also followed by a business delegation. Member of this business delegation was János Kóka, former Minister of Economy, former president of SZDSZ. And this János Kóka was not simply a member of Viktor Orbán's business delegation when the agreement before us was concluded, but he had a service passport in his pocket. I'm guessing you had this service passport in your pocket when you were cleared, Péter Szijjártó, as the press reported. I asked here once in the House why János Kóka had received a service passport during the count. But let's keep going. János Kóka represented a group of companies, the Cellum group, in which Ferenc Gyurcsány and Péter Oszkó had an interest. So, if we cut it short, it looks like Viktor Orbán was in business in Saudi Arabia for Ferenc Gyurcsány, János Kóka and Péter Oszkó. What do you think, Mr. Secretary? And after that, they're gonna stand up in an election campaign to communist, play ring, while your prime minister was negotiating in Saudi Arabia to make it better for their companies. The question can, of course, be asked the other way around, that when they are dictatorships here, they are operating in orbans, and they accept that they will acquire new businesses in the business delegation of Viktor Orbán in Saudi Arabia. But this story also has a tougher range. When this agreement was concluded, according to the press, did the Prime Minister of Hungary boast about it in Saudi Arabia? And this wasn't the first time because he did the same boast in Japan? That Hungary is an excellent opportunity, for example, for Saudi investors, because wages are low and the labour market is flexible. [[18.30]] This means that the Hungarian Prime Minister, for example, is negotiating behind his back with János Kóka and other businessmen, for the wages of Hungarian workers and Hungarian workers in Saudi Arabia and other remote countries. This convention, which seems to be a completely marginal story, has actually been concluded under conditions that are very representative of your economic policy and trade policy, and it is a good description of what kind of Hungary you want. You think that Hungary will be put on a course where the Hungarian workforce will be permanently delivered, wages will be pushed down, and then Hungary will be a good investment field for Saudi and other remote investors. This means that you are putting to the top the failed course of catching up that the governments after the change of regime have put Hungary on. This future leads to Hungary being a assembly country where people are slaving for food and there is no protection in the workplace. You brag about it abroad, which is why foreign investors are encouraged to come to Hungary. It's worth waking up! Hungary is at a dead end precisely because there is a terrible gap between foreign capital and the domestic SME sector. In the last quarter of a century, governments have paid attention to Hungary's ability to attract foreign capital, not domestic capital. Mr State Secretary, the fact is that Hungary will not be able to win the downward price and wage competition. There will always be a country further south or east of us that makes the workforce more vulnerable and even less observant to social and ecological regulations. The end of this policy is that Hungarian workers will be permanently exposed, they will remove the obstacles that stand in front of large companies, whether for environmental or social reasons. I think that, while, of course, all the conventions that serve to prevent tax evasion are important, it is worth recalling the circumstances under which this convention was born, along what commercial policy philosophy. And the circumstances in which this agreement was concluded in Riyadh are shameful and precisely the commercial policy considerations that led Viktor Orbán and Péter Szijjártó to conclude this Saudi Arabian agreement will simply bring the country into disaster and make Hungarian workers impossible, making the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector impossible. In summary, you can see that in offshore cases, you have no interest in sweeping the offshore knights, locking up the money pump, otherwise you can shop behind the scenes with those who are constantly being abused during campaigns, while prisoners of an economical delusion which is trying to build on the fact that the Hungarian worker is free to be fired, humiliated, and that Hungarian wages can continue to be pressed down. I think that this policy serves everything but the well-being of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2014-10-13-246	Thank you very much. I would like to ask if the political groups still wish to present their group's position. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see that. In that case, I will ask if one of the independent Members wishes to speak. (No applicants.) I don't see that. Dear Parliament, Now we have two-minute speeches, if you have a candidate. [[There's no candidate.]] We're gonna close this up pretty fast. The further speeches will then be followed by the other representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this case you have a 15-15 minute timeframe. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made, in which case the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Hungarian Commercial Office in Taipei and the Hungarian Taipei Representative Office is followed by the general discussion of the draft law on the publication of the agreement on the programme of temporary-work tourists until closure. The submission was made in T/803. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Secretary of State, you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary has been able to conclude agreements with third countries since 1 November 2012 on the basis of the programme of so-called temporary work tourists, under which nationals aged between 18 and 35 years of age may stay in the territory of the other Party for a period of not more than one year and may temporarily work if the conditions laid down in the agreement are met. Dear Parliament, The establishment of such an agreement between Hungary and Taiwan has a positive economic, cultural, touristic and educational impact on Hungarian-Taiwan relations and facilitates further development of human and youth relations. As a result of the negotiations, the head of the Taipei Commercial Office in Budapest and the Hungarian Commercial Office in Taipei signed the agreement in Budapest on 10 September 2013, which requires the adoption of this bill. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-13-248	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Under the Working Holiday SIM programme foreseen by the Agreement, citizens aged between 18 and 30 years may stay in the territory of the other Party for a maximum of 100 to 100 persons per year. Since the purpose of their stay is primarily tourism, i.e. not to pursue employment, they may take temporary employment if the conditions laid down in the Agreement are fulfilled. The agreement fits into the system of Hungarian-Tajvan relations, which would serve the further development of human and youth relations. The establishment of the agreement can have a positive impact on the whole of Hungarian-Taiwan relations, while respecting the territorial integrity of the People's Republic of China and in addition to a Chinese-Taiwanian principle. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-250	Thank you very much. I would like to ask if the political groups would like to present their group's position. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. In this case, we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. Dear Parliament, I will ask if one of the independent Members wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] No. Two-minute speeches are possible if there is a candidate. Please let me know. (No applicants.) There's no candidate. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, No further comments were therefore made. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Kontra on Charles' signal:]] Secretary of State, please.
u2014-10-13-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you, Mr President, for your statement of support for this proposal. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support this proposal in voting as well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-13-252	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[18.40]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on road connections across the Hungarian-Romanian border until closure. The submission is T/1275. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki, the author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-253	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Everyday relations between the two sides of the Hungarian-Romanian border in the last century, partly due to the tightening border control, have gradually degenerated, affected areas have become peripheral and limited in their development, family, social and economic relations have regressed. However, following Romania's accession to the EU, there was an increasing need to rebuild old out-of-use roads and to establish new transport links. LXXXV of 2006 on the order of the Hungarian-Romanian state border. A separate international contract on the investment must be concluded before any construction work in the border region is undertaken pursuant to law. In July this year, the parties signed a bilateral agreement in Bucharest in order to overcome the slowing-down regulation that hinders investment. The Convention establishes the legal conditions for the start of work in the border area in the case of a road link to the common border line. Specific agreements should continue to be concluded for motorway connections and major artefacts. A further objective is to ensure that major enlargement works, which may be necessary on existing roads, can be carried out without the conclusion of a separate intergovernmental agreement, on the basis of this Agreement. The two parties drew up, as an annex to the Agreement, a list of road links that already exist or are expected to be built in the future. By adopting the Agreement, the two Parties agree to allow for the construction or expansion of roads in the places on the list without the conclusion of any further international treaty. To this end, an agreement between road managers on the preparation and execution of the investment will be sufficient. The purpose of the agreement is to jointly define the traffic nature and authorised load capacity of cross-border roads, which allows for their uniform management on both sides and also regulates the level of freight traffic in border settlements. Pending Romania's Schengen membership, border controls should be ensured on the roads that have been built to start traffic, and the Ministry of Interior shall consult with the Romanian party. On the basis of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/1275. Please adopt a bill tabled and support the publication of the agreement. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-13-254	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have 15 minutes tops, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I do not seek cheap popularity, I must say to my fellow Members, I would like to talk about a few things in connection with this proposal. I think it's okay if we look at these now. First, let us look at the agreement before us. It is obvious to everyone that in the area of the Hungarian-Romanian border, which was established after the Trianon decision, everyday relations between the settlements in the two different countries gradually deteriorated. Later, border control, which was tightening in the second half of the century, contributed significantly to this process. The areas concerned have become peripheral and limited in their development, and natural family, social and economic relations have evolved. Following Romania's accession to the European Union, there was an increasing need for old out-of-use roads to be rebuilt and for new transport facilities to be created as needed. The two parties had drawn up a list of road connections earlier, including some 20 such contacts on this list. They already exist or are expected to be built in the future. By adopting the Agreement, the two Parties agree that it is possible to build or expand a road without entering into a further international contract at the place on the list. To this end, an agreement between road managers on the preparation and execution of the investment will be sufficient. This objective is certainly to be supported and the direction the Government has prepared for this agreement. The further objective of the agreement is to jointly define the traffic nature and the authorised capacity of cross-border roads, which allows for uniform management of these roads on both sides, and to regulate the level of freight traffic in border settlements. We think it is right that the Hungarian government prepared this with such care. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the bill on this basis. Our reasons are as follows. We support it because the development and expansion of relations between the two countries contribute to the development of the region, the recovery of political and economic relations, the development of Hungarian-Romanian and Hungarian-Hungarian relations. We believe that this is an important goal, and this must be supported. We support it because it eliminates the unreasonable situation in which residents of former sister settlements have to travel tens of kilometers in order to see one another. That is why we therefore support the adoption of the bill. We believe that this will significantly increase the competitiveness of companies operating along the border, create new jobs and rationalise cooperation between the two sides of the border. Market size, demand for products and services produced here may increase. This agreement could also make significant progress in the area of tourism, since easier accessibility and interoperability can also make it reasonable to coordinate the development of the region. As a special positive, I would like to mention in relation to the proposal that the name of the Romanian settlements is also indicated in Hungarian in the annex to the agreement in relation to road connections crossing the Hungarian-Romanian state border. I have already objected to this in connection with an earlier Hungarian-Slovak agreement, and I certainly see this as a step forward, and I welcome the fact that the government is now putting it this way in the presentation. Thank you very much, too. However, a few words have to be said about the current issues of Hungarian-Romanian relations that are not intended for this proposal, and it is not for it to be settled. But I think we'll have to talk about it here in front of the House later. The first such thing is the issue of joint Hungarian-Romanian government meetings, which the Hungarian Socialist Party is constantly pushing for. After all, we believe that dialogue should be sought between the parties, because it is dialogue between neighbouring countries that gives our national brothers and sisters the opportunity to thrive in the homeland. Béla Markó, former federal president of RMDSZ, recently said that there are no such Hungarian-Romanian intergovernmental relations. While this cooperation was previously characterised by a series of joint Hungarian-Romanian government meetings, today there is virtually no communication between the two governments? Says Bela Marko. Between 2005 and 2008, a total of four joint government meetings were held by the then government, with countless cooperations prepared and signed, and today they can only talk about the private dinner of Viktor Orbán and Traian Băsescu in government communication. I think that a private dinner and a government cooperation between the two governments are two things of different importance. During this period, many people in Fidesz have condemned the policy of small steps, suggesting that joint government meetings are not effective enough. However, it is therefore important to acknowledge that, in their preparation and in connection with the fulfilment of the commitments, the entire government of both countries focused on the other country, the Romanian Hungarians and the Hungarians living here. This special attention has unfortunately not been achieved by Hungarians living here, the Romanian Hungarians. Hungarians in Transylvania will therefore be given less attention in this regard than before. It is inexplicable and unacceptable for us that during the period of the second Orbán government, they have not been able to organise and operate joint government meetings, despite the express request of Hungarian organisations across the border and the MSZP. This is all the more interesting, because, in the meantime, there have also been institutional systems in Transylvania that would open this possibility better. It is enough to think only about the opening of the Romanian Consulate-General in Gyula, the re-establishing of the Statue of Liberty in Arad, the settlement of the Gozsdu heritage, and the establishment of the Hungarian and Romanian cultural branch institution opened in Sepsiszentgyörgy and Szeged. [[18.50]] So if there is progress in this area, then we should only put the point on the "i" so that the government can prepare for these government meetings to be re-established. An interesting question is the draft autonomy of the RMDSZ, which the Fidesz government is actually ignoring. The issue of autonomy is also interesting, because although all or most of the parties in this country support the autonomy efforts of the RMDSZ, we also hear very nice speeches about it, but the fact is that there is no meaningful response to this issue. As if the government did not acknowledge that the largest Hungarian foreign advocacy organization created an autonomous concept and sent it to a social debate. We are not, of course, asking the Fidesz government to be an activist in Bucharest, but we would like the Hungarian government to respond to this issue at bilateral meetings in international forums. We consider this to be important, since it is an appropriate substantive concept of a large organization with a long history. Nor can they defend themselves with the fact that there is a presidential campaign in Romania, and the speeches of this nature are not good for the Hungarian cause. Let's face it, this would not be the first time that the Fidesz government intervened in the Hungarian political space in Romania, in a situation where such sensitivity could have been considered. In fact, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally intervened in the Romanian presidential campaign. If we remember, in 2009? Was there such a presidential campaign? In the second round, I would vote for Traian Băsescu. Indeed, the Romanian head of state could then begin his second term of office, and it is also possible that he played a major role in convincing many Hungarian voters by Viktor Orbán. The third issue is the diplomatic conflict on the opening of Hungarian consular offices. It is worth talking about because it is actually a little something to say that this intense conflict is unprecedented in the history of diplomacy. The Hungarian diplomacy complained that Romania rejected the Hungarian demand without any meaningful explanation. On the other hand, according to the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Hungarian Ambassador of Bucharest was informed of the reasons for the decision a month earlier in a personal audience. So what we are talking about is that the Romanian state is in a conflict with the Hungarian state about the opening of the consular office in which it is lying to the Hungarian government, let's say that it is accusing him of not telling the truth. The Romanian party raises the principle of reciprocity and proportionality on the issue of the opening of the Hungarian consular office, and it was not clear in this regard exactly what the Hungarian government was proposing to do with the two Hungarian consular offices to be opened in Oradea and Marosvásárhely. We do not know why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade communicated on this issue, which it communicated, and there was a tangled explanation between the two countries, which, of course, poisoned the relationship between the two countries on this issue as well. We could continue with the case of the University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Marosvásárhely. There has also been a stalemate on this issue, even though we are talking about the Hungarian faculty of one of the most important Hungarian higher education institutions in Romania. As is known, the Romanian majority of the Senate of the University refused to apply the minority aspects of the adopted teaching law in 2011. So in Hungarian, we are talking about a regulation of minority teaching in Romania, which was not introduced by the Senate. According to the law, the Hungarian faculty would have had a degree of autonomy within the school. On the other hand, the Senate accepts a university charter that does not count on this Hungarian class. The Charter was not approved by the Ministry of Education and requested its adaptation, but the university held the internal elections on the basis of an unknown document. I would like to remind this House that the Ungureanu government has fallen into this case, but despite the personal mediation of the new government and the Prime Minister, the issue has not been resolved. In this case, we did not see the assistance of the Hungarian Government or its mediator's intention. There are precedents for solving this issue. The Babeş-Bolyai University of Cluj-Napoca and the University of Arts in Târgu Mures were able to create the independent Hungarian faculty, but this case is still unresolved. We do not think, of course, that this must now be settled within the framework of this Treaty, but we think that, in terms of Hungarian-Romanian relations, we are dealing with issues of such importance that we should indeed deal with in this House, which should not be swept under the carpet. We could also pursue the case of the Székely Mikó College in Sepsiszentgyörgy, but there are many cases in relation to Hungarian-Romanian relations that need to be resolved. Here the dorm building was returned, then taken back by the Romanian state, and the members of the restoration committee were sentenced to prison. Hungarian politicians in Transylvania talked about a conceptual trial, renationalization and the attack on Hungarian minorities. We think that there has been an unclear situation here, to which the Hungarian government should have answered in any case. The court case that came out of this: in June 2012, the Romanian court declared not only the return illegal, but also sentenced the members of the committee to prison, as I said earlier. Attila Markó and Tamás Marosán were legal advisors of the Reformed Association of Transylvania, and Silviu Clim, former advisor to the Romanian Ministry of Justice, received 3-3 years in prison. The Hungarian Reformed Church was obliged to pay compensation of 1.3 million lei, which is about HUF 90 million. These are meaty matters. The Hungarian government should have been there on this issue, should have been there for the innocently accused Hungarian people, or should still be accountable for what is going on with the innocently accused and sentenced Hungarian people. In the Hungarian public life in Romania, the judgment was deeply outraged, as well as the sense that this community felt abandoned by the Hungarian government. Dear House, Orbán's government, said to be national, does nothing to combat the legitimate needs of Hungarians in Transylvania, and it cannot do anything, since Hungarian-Romanian relations have now reached the point that there is no relationship between the two countries. Nationalist politics, the attempt to share Hungarians across borders, the export of Hungarian domestic political conflicts, and the reckless political statements also led to a dead end in Hungarian-Romanian relations. The bilateral relations of the past months were characterised by the case of the Szekler flag, the threat of expulsion by the former Hungarian ambassador, angry statements, tension, the outburst of the Romanian President and the complete lack of dialogue. In such an international context, this Convention will be concluded. Dear House, I sincerely hope that this convention is a step in the policy of reconciliation and solution in Hungarian-Romanian politics. I sincerely hope that this convention will be followed by further conventions that will resolve these issues. For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party will support both this agreement and all subsequent agreements that settle the case of Hungarians in Transylvania and stand by it with full chest width. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time.
u2014-10-13-256	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. In the same way, Congressman, you have a maximum of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik supports the proposal for a regulation to announce the agreement, but I have several critical comments on this, I would like to make some points, and I would also like to highlight new aspects that have not yet been mentioned in my speech. On the one hand, our criticism is that, overall, over the past few years, the Orbán government has focused mainly on economic results in relation to neighbouring countries; it was only the external economic direction that they could report with positive charges, and this was in our view in the first place because they tried to shawl in this way that they could not give any meaningful results at national political level in relation to our brothers who had been torn off on the table in the case of foreign Hungarians. [[19.00]] I would also like to bring here a question which, although not closely related to the bill, I believe that it must be mentioned in any case in a few minutes. I am referring to the issue of border security, because, although it can be said that the Romanian border is not one of the most endangered areas in terms of illegal border crossings and immigration, this is rather the case with regard to Serbia, but the situation in the Middle East warns us that this may change within a few days, and if the conditions there are not consolidated, then there can certainly be a flood of refugees in this direction. I think that these challenges must also be prepared, and this is also a aspect that the government should definitely take into account. If we already have a road agreement before us, we do need to speak very strongly about the fact that the most important thing for our Hungarian brothers in Transylvania in this regard is that they have a motorway at their disposal to get to the mother country. The fact is that neither the North Transylvanian nor the South Transylvanian highway can be considered appropriate from this point of view, to say the least. We expect the government to take much more emphasis on these issues. In recent years, the case of the North Transylvanian motorway seems to have been ignored in Romania. We are now looking at the seven-year period of the new EU planning cycle, the period 2014-2020, so there would be opportunities in this respect. With regard to the South Transylvanian motorway, it can be said that we can talk about a slightly more advanced situation, but the question arises, for example, why Arad and Mako still have not been connected to the motorway. In these cases, we therefore absolutely expect serious and decisive action from the Orbán government, which is the government of national affairs itself, and we ask that every possible step be taken at diplomatic level to speed up the construction of these motorways, i.e. take action in this sense at national political level, as these results should be shown in order to improve the relationship between our brothers and the mother country that have been torn up over the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-258	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask if the other factions want to put in a lead speaker. [[No one's reporting.]] No. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Dear Parliament, I will ask if one of the independent Members wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Please let me know if anyone wishes to speak in this manner. [[No one's reporting.]] There's no such thing. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No one's signaling. In this case, Honourable Parliament, as no one has applied for further speeches, the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State András Aradski indicates that he is. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Firstly, I would like to thank the speakers for supporting the bill, i.e. the adoption of the convention, i.e. you agree that the agreement to facilitate cross-border traffic, the establishment of cross-border roads should be between the two parties, and rather become part of the Hungarian legal order, because, as they have said, this will greatly facilitate the opportunities of the local economy, human relations and community creation. In fact, I could conclude my response to the comments made on the bill, which is, I say, a thank you for supporting the essential content of the bill. But I can't just go past certain things, which I'm quite surprised that the MSZP representative said these things in 2004. After 12 months 5, when the then MSZP Prime Minister and party president encouraged Hungarian citizens not to support the citizenship of Hungarians living abroad. We did much more important things after 2010: by more than two thirds of Parliament, we adopted the bill of citizenship, we made the Hungarian-Hungarian connection to Romania, Felvidék, South-Hungarian, Transcarpathia, even by making it part of the educational programme the opportunity for young people to learn about the life of Hungarians beyond the borders, build communities and personal relationships. In addition, I must say that Hungarian politics had a balanced relationship with Hungarian organisations across the border. With regard to Béla Markó's position, I can only say that Béla Markó is already in the past, the Hungarian government is seeking a balanced and proportionate relationship with the DAHR and other Hungarian parties. I must also add that economic relations are very important in the relationship between the two countries. Economic relations make it possible to understand each other better, and through economic relations a better, more meaningful relationship can be developed along the lines of common benefits and common interests. A well-balanced economic relationship system does not increase disputes and contradictions, but increases cooperation, respect for each other, and is an important part of Hungarians living beyond the border, the Hungarians, being involved in these economic relations. I must add that, regardless of the fact that these formal and well-proclaimed and highly publicized joint government meetings, which, by the way, did not produce any results, in everyday life, we are helping to develop economic relations and cultural relations at government level. I should therefore mention that there was a joint economic committee meeting between the two parties, namely on 14-15 July 2014 and in other fields, such as energy issues, it was possible to sit down and negotiate with the Romanian party and to think about joint projects. I think these are the most important things, and 2004. After the 5th of the 12th month, I feel quite dissonant about the manifestations that the Socialist Party MEP has said, especially without being at all at the heart of the bill. I also thank the representative of Jobbik for his support for the bill. I fully agree with that, and the Hungarian government indicates on every occasion that motorway constructions in Transylvania can affect not only Hungarian-Hungarian relations, but also economic relations. Seeing the plans for the seven-year EU cycle, the plans for Romania, they are very ambitious. If they are implemented within seven years, they can produce very good results and also make it easier to access the areas of the bloc Hungary. I must add that we always push from the Hungarian side, we meet the expectation that all our motorways will reach the border crossing. We have repeatedly signalled to the Romanian party that the phase between the Hungarian border and Arad will be completed as soon as possible, but I saw that this will also be achieved in the next seven-year cycle. All these questions are not really related to the bill. Hopefully, the bill will be a very important and stimulating tool for cross-border relations and cooperation, making it easier to establish new roads, renovate old, used roads and, through them, strengthen Hungarian-Hungarian relations. [[19.10]] I would like to thank you for your support, and I would like to ask you to confirm this with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-13-260	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Mengyi Roland, Fidesz, Congressman's own motion T/1371. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Roland of Mengyi, the author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, I would like to remind you that you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The 2008 XL on gas supply. The proposed amendment of Law No 1 states that the transfer of ownership of natural gas in storage facilities operated as public customs warehouses does not constitute a commercial activity subject to authorisation under the law on the supply of natural gas. The proposal fits in with the government's priority issue of ensuring the supply and security of gas to Hungarian consumers. To this end, we need to continue to look at the regulatory and economic solutions that could encourage market players to be placed in storage beyond the mandatory level. There is a need to look for solutions that could result in better use of domestic storage tanks with significant capacity and an increase in domestic security of supply. The proposal ensures that operators do not need a commercial licence for the transaction when they are stored in and sold in storage in a public warehouse. The proposal therefore allows for additional storage, encouraging operators, so that it can have a budgetary revenue impact. All this, of course, by maintaining the control and possibility of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. Please support the motion. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. Secretary of State of Aradsk, please.
u2014-10-13-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On behalf of the government, on behalf of the government, I can say that Congressman Roland Mengyi's proposal is supported by the government. It is a very important proposal, because it fits well with the process of remedying the gas situation resulting from the Ukrainian-Russian crisis, and the adoption of this bill will give us the opportunity to further facilitate and further ensure the legal conditions for gas storage in Hungary. Gas storage, which is intended to ensure that gas storage capacity at European level is provided well and efficiently, properly and along the lowest possible cost indicator. That is why I believe that all such steps to ensure the security of gas supply, even if indirectly, are very important, to ensure the winter safety of the Hungarian population, the Hungarian population, and we can therefore support it in any way.
u2014-10-13-264	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The clear position of our group is that in view of the situation in Russia-Ukrainian foreign policy, it is justified to create a regulatory environment that encourages market participants to store in Hungarian storage facilities. My fellow Members may recall that in autumn 2011, perhaps in early October, we discussed the national energy strategy, in which we made it clear and clear that Hungary is in a very vulnerable position in terms of energy, because we are forced to import a share of around 80% specifically in the area of gas supply if we are to serve the country's consumers and industrial consumers safely. There were a number of policy objectives that could significantly reduce this exposure. These included the objective of further increasing Hungary's role in the area of gas trading in Central Europe, reaching a position that can make much stronger and more attractive use of our potential as a result of our geopolitical situation and for the benefit of the public. My fellow Members may even remember that in the last year, together with Mr János Lázár, representatives of Antal Rogán, we proposed that the Hungarian state take over the domestic gas storage facilities and buy them in order to increase and improve the country's security of supply and this commercial position in Central Europe. As a result, the gas storage facilities in question have become Community property. In the meantime, unfortunately, based on our previous guidelines for caution, geopolitical changes have occurred in our environment, which make it very quickly necessary for these safety and commercial containers to be replenished as much as possible. In order to achieve this as smoothly as possible, did our fellow Member, Mr Mengyi Roland, make his own motion, which gives him the opportunity to do so? As it was said in the author's exposé? that the transfer of ownership of natural gas in a storage facility operated as a public customs warehouse is no longer a commercial activity within the meaning of the law on the supply of natural gas. In this case, there will also be no need to carry out a permit procedure, which can further improve cooperation with the partners and ensure that the charge-up of gas storage in Hungary reaches at least the maximum. This could also strengthen the security of our country's supply and improve the country's position in the Central European gas trading market. From this point of view, our group proposes to the honourable Parliament to support this motion. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-13-266	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here.
u2014-10-13-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The motion to amend the Gas Supply Act is yet another fine example of personalised, opaquely prepared bill proposals. On the proposal of our Fidesz fellow Member, Mengyi Roland, Parliament intends to create another personalized so-called lex, I would call this lex Gazprom. From the wording and formatting of the bill submitted, it is likely that this bill was rather signed by MEP Mengyi and actually prepared by the government, as this assumption is confirmed by the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán negotiated in Parliament with Aleksei Miller, CEO of Gazprom, on the increased gas supply of Hungary in the autumn-winter period. [[19.20]] He told us that we would need a large amount of natural gas in the coming period to replenish our reserves, that I had agreed with Aleksej Miller Gazprom CEO to get this quantity. He said that on the Hungarian Radio, commenting on his meetings with Miller. If, therefore, the bill is the result of these negotiations, the question arises as to why the bill was not submitted by a member of the government or of a Member of Parliament. To understand this, it is worth looking at the content of the bill. The bill is extremely short, it consists of only two stages, one of which is the entry into force. According to the bill, the ownership of natural gas in a storage facility operated as a public customs warehouse is freely transferable and does not require a natural gas trading or limited natural gas trading permit. The holder of the storage authorization shall immediately inform the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office of any change in ownership of the public warehouse natural gas stock. My fellow Member, Roland Mengyi, says that these provisions make clear the regulation of the Gas Act on activities subject to authorisation. This justification could also lead to my fellow Member, Roland Mengyi, criticising the Government of Viktor Orbán for not properly regulating the scope of activities subject to authorisation under the Gas Act. In my opinion, however, that is not the case. Fidesz MEPs do not criticize their own government, since it is not the case that the scope of licensed activities is not clearly regulated in the Gas Act. Ladies and gentlemen, This is about granting a specific business discount to Gazprom, which, for some reason, the government did not want to submit to Parliament under its own name. The proposed regulation means that part of the natural gas imported from Russia will be physically transferred to a storage facility for natural gas in Hungary, which is designated by the government as a public customs warehouse. However, the imported natural gas remains on paper with the original owner abroad until it sells to the Hungarian gas trader. However, this sale is not an activity subject to authorisation. What does that mean? On the one hand, it will be possible that part of the domestic storage capacity will be occupied by a third country operator, such as Gazprom, which does not engage in natural gas trading activities in Hungary, and on the other hand, with the possibility that the original owner of the gas does not require a commercial licence for the sale of gas in the public customs warehouse. In practice, Congressman Mengyi proposes that the original owner of the gas, such as Gazprom, should receive significant administrative and tax facilitations and discounts compared to other players in the gas market in Hungary. This actor does not have to obtain permission, pay taxes in Hungary, 19 percent corporate tax or 31 percent so-called Robin Hood tax. On the other hand, it also means that the storage capacity appointed as a public customs warehouse cannot be used by other operators authorised in Hungary. Thirdly, it also means that the stored natural gas is not to be paid to the MVM or the State unless it is needed. Maybe there's no money in the register for that right now? That's a quarter of what it means? and is this supposed to be a positive result for Hungary alone? The fact that there may at least be a physical increase in the storage of Russian gas in the storage facilities in Hungary means that the pressure may actually decrease in the case of a gas crisis the risk that the stored domestic stocks do not come out of storage according to daily requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, However, this amendment also means that the previous press information that Gazprom would use the domestic storage infrastructure and store about 700 million cubic metres of natural gas here was not unfounded. You could hardly do that if you didn't count on stopping the Ukrainian transit. This assumption is also confirmed by the news that Gazprom is already trying to transfer transports through Slovakia to the Nord Stream pipeline. However, if the Indian jokers have been preparing for the cold winter and cutting wood for months, so Gazprom is also trying to circumvent Ukraine to use the storage capacities of the EU countries in order to prepare for a possible new gas crisis, then the question arises why the Hungarian government, Viktor Orbán, has not provided for the uploading of the expensively purchased domestic storage facilities for domestic users. Why did you spend hundreds of billions of forints on storage if you didn't upload them to at least as much as it was charged during the previous period, even under E.ON's ownership? Why is it that we have retail containers that barely exceed 50 percent upload, while the other EU countries typically have storage tanks at 80-90 percent charge level? Who became rich in exporting natural gas to Ukraine for months instead of domestic storage? Maybe you don't have enough money to buy gas for MVM or the government? What did the hundred billion HUF ownership loan that the government gave to the Hungarian Electricity Works in the summer went to, in order to upload the storage facilities? Maybe the public communication campaign on secure domestic storage meant that we bought a storage unit, but we can't upload it. Why can't you afford it? Ladies and gentlemen, These are exactly the issues we discussed earlier when we mentioned transactions by E.ON companies purchased at a value of HUF 600 billion more expensive than the valuation value. We said that anything can be taken into public ownership, under state control, that the state should focus primarily on public tasks that no one else can carry out except for him, such as education and health care. And the resources spent on stocking uploads and buying companies are the exact areas where the money is drawn from. Ladies and gentlemen, Moreover, because of this unthinkable economic policy, Hungary is in a situation where the government is only trying to ensure that it is warm and clear in winter by means of such opaque and ad hoc deals, i.e. it can meet gas consumption needs. These were the comments that wanted to highlight the real content of the bill and its background, so that once again, as a result of an opaque bargaining process, we would unilaterally grant discounts to a specific Russian company. However, the bill is not only suitable for adoption in its current form. The text signed by Mr Mengyi does not, on the one hand, comply with the conceptual system of the Gas Act and, on the other hand, does not regulate the procedure for implementing it, because let it be said, who knows where the Gas Act tells who should be understood as a so-called storage licensee. The natural gas storage guy? If so, this should be written because the Gas Act uses that term, and it does not know the term storage licensee. And if it is not the natural gas storage holder that should be understood as a storage holder, then it should be stated who, according to the text proposed by Mr Mengyi, is the storage holder. Another flaw in the proposal is that it does not resolve the basis for the operation of a storage facility as a public customs warehouse. According to our current knowledge, there is no such thing in Hungary. This may also be designated by the Minister for Energy Policy in a regulation, just as he designates the security repository, if so, it should be included in the bill. Finally, there should also be consistency with the provisions contained in the Council Regulation establishing a Community Customs Code, i.e. the obligation for the holder of a storage facility to obtain the authorisation of the customs authorities to operate as a public warehouse. Ladies and gentlemen, In total, the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the adoption of the bill in its present form, because the security of gas supply in Hungary must not be ensured by personalised laws and not by transparent government agreements, but by ensuring that the government provides an adequate level of uploading of storages purchased from taxpayers' money. And the writings prepared by the government, I think, should be prepared more thoroughly and professionally. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-13-268	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since there is no one on the part of KDNP, I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary clearly addresses all proposals submitted by the government in the field of energy policy in line with its own energy strategy, and this is no different with the current proposal. [[19.30]] At a time when gas reservoirs were bought back by the government from the E.ON Group into state property, we raised our concerns about the buy-back price, even though we indicated that we were in favour of national ownership of such a strategic performance. We have concerns about the maneuvers implemented by the government every time we see this as justified. However, from an energy strategy point of view, the step that the Government intends to take now by adopting this bill can be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. From the point of view of trade in natural gas, as Mr Bencsik said, Hungary is in a very important position, although it is the Nord Stream pipeline that partly eliminates gas shipments through Ukraine to Western Europe. The future South Stream gas pipeline would be another player in this story, which, although we do not know when it will become real and when gas will flow in these pipelines, but until then, it is very important how we can ensure the energy and gas supply of Hungary on the one hand and how we can fulfil our contractual obligations on the other hand, with the coming winter and the heating season. Indeed, the rate of uploading our own gas storage capacities was not as expected, it would have been important for us, as in Western Europe the reservoirs were much more charged when the Hungarian government came to its senses and started to turn the gas reservoirs into higher speeds. At the same time, Ukraine's transit has also stopped, but we believe that the existing storage capacity should be ample enough to cover gas demand in Hungary for months even in the event of a gas tap shutdown, producing the amount of gas needed to heat homes in Hungary, if these containers are, of course, properly charged. There remains a storage capacity for which it is permissible to use a public warehouse classification, if this term can be used, to hold a wage. A third party is storing natural gas in these tanks, from which it is clearly able to store this stock without official authorization, but simultaneously notifying the Office. So to sum up, I can say, and I really don't want to put the word long, that we don't have any fundamental objections to the bill. Of course, the most important aspect for us as a national party is, at all times, the availability of adequate quantities of natural gas for Hungary's winter energy supply. In light of this, and if this is ensured, we do not see any obstacles to such amendments in order to improve our gas trading positions or in the interests of energy strategy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-13-270	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-271	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! The ownership of natural gas in a storage facility operated as a public customs warehouse is freely transferable and does not require a natural gas trading permit. When this sentence became available for the first time in the bill, the entire Hungarian specialised press was sure that it was preparing the lease of gas storage facilities in Hungary for Russia. Somehow, there was too much going on. The government bought a obviously excessive storage capacity, but the storage facilities were not filled, Gazprom's leader visited Hungary and then stopped gas shipments to Ukraine. These steps all pointed in the same direction. When Roland Mengyi's amendment appeared as an individual, the question was that only the pro-government representative would cooperate in this matter in Russia on his own beard, which is unlikely in the light of the operation of Fidesz, or the entire government side, which will vote in favour of this proposal. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The aim of the new government must not be less than to create Hungary's energy independence in 20 years, as this is one of the most important elements of its sovereignty. One of the biggest challenges of the Hungarian national economy is the dependence on imported energy, which is also a serious vulnerability in financial terms. No country can be strong if its energy supply is completely vulnerable. Orbán's words from recent times, and since they were spoken, all that has changed has been the fact that Russia has shown very hard on Ukraine what it thinks about being too independent and how a country can use gas weapons in such a conflict. From the point of view of Hungary, nothing has changed. Independence from Russia and Russian gas and diversification of energy sources remain our priorities. This was the only argument that could justify the buy-back of the MOL deck of Surget or the purchase of gas storage. Gas storage could be the most important means of energy self-determination in Hungary, except in one case, if we make wage storage for Russia. If the Hungarian storage facilities are filled with Russian-owned or transferable gas to Russia, they cannot be used in any way to ensure Hungarian gas import independence. And if Russia continues to decide what we do with our gas and gas storage, then it's ridiculous to talk about independence. The weight of the problem is perceived not only in Hungary but throughout Europe. The EU's new energy security strategy calls energy dependence on Russia the most strategic risk and resolution of dependence the most important strategic objective. The EU currently purchases 53 percent of its energy from imports. Energy import dependence on oil is the highest in the area of natural gas use, with a share of two thirds. Some 70 percent of the gas consumed in the EU comes from imports, the largest supplier is Russia. In the case of Hungary, the percentage of Russian gas imports shall be at least 80 per cent. Therefore, in addition to the elimination of unilateral dependence, there would be obvious arguments, and perhaps there is no need for further proof that, in the absence of new domestic gas sources that can be quickly put into place, the only option for us would be to increase the supply resources on the external market and preserve the provision over domestic storage capacity, the latter currently has no alternative to dealing with short-term gas market anomalies. However, for the Orbán government, distance from the EU is apparently significantly more important than the deregulation of the EU's energy policy than independence from Russia. Even before the purchase of gas storage facilities was negotiated between Viktor Orbán and the leader of Gazprom, it was already considered that the capacity of the Hungarian storage facilities would be partly used by Gazprom, which makes any intention of independence illusory. Then history repeated itself. Orbán again negotiated with Gazprom, and within days we closed the gas taps to Ukraine, and the wage storage of Russian gas in Hungary became a reality, which obviously also requires the bill we are discussing. LMP will not vote in favour of this proposal, for us it is not a campaign slogan, but a real national interest to regain energy self-determination, and we will not pass out immediately if Putin pulls his eyebrows together a little. According to the LMP, Hungary's interests would not be to preserve our dependence on Russian gas, but to diversify purchasing opportunities, increase autonomy, increase energy efficiency and exploit renewables as much as possible. [[19.40]] This is exactly the opposite of what the government stands for. The Orbán government is in favour of energy slavery and LMP is in favour of energy independence. These are two positions which cannot be reconciled. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-13-272	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. According to the decision-making rules, the first independent Member who has applied may speak, so I give the floor to Mr László Varju. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-273	Thank you very much. I am in a lucky position not to take advantage of this time frame, because before me, two of my fellow Members have very professionally expressed their position as to where the preparation of the law is going? And I'm not talking about pro-government representatives? , just because I actually think that there is only one thought left out of this preparatory work, and this is how and how the Hungarian gas oligarchs will be involved in this story, how they will benefit from all of this and, of course, behind the financing of this, they do not seem, but they do recall how they will benefit from it and how they will benefit from it. The second point is that there is some kind of discreet charm that domestic nationalists work together here to make a clear acceptance of the legislative proposal representing Russian interests and to announce that they are happy to support it. But I would like to point out that, for my part, we, for our part, do not recommend adopting this bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-13-274	Thank you very much. I can see you're on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State. You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-13-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is difficult for me to respond in round and tailor-made sentences to what has been said here, and I must say that, in addition to the pro-government representatives, there is a responsible political party on this issue here in Parliament, and this is Jobbik. The other two or three speakers? two political parties, and there was an independent speaker? We simply have no regard for the fact that we are ahead of winter 2014-15, and it is also obvious how risky and unpredictable the situation is in Ukraine, so we, those with government responsibility, have only one duty: at any cost, by any means, to ensure adequate gas supply and security of supply in Hungary. We have taken a lot of steps to achieve this in the last nearly six months. Currently, the stocked volume is 3.7 billion cubic metres, which is one billion cubic metres more than what was at this time in 2013. It can be said to lower the percentage upload. Dear Congressman Tóth, In a 10-litre bottle? So you can understand? 4 litres of wine is 40 per cent upload, 5 litres per bottle is 80 per cent upload. About these proportions are between a Slovak, a Czech storage capacity and a Hungarian storage capacity. If we look at the quantity of gas stored per capita, then the situation is already better: Hungary is in third place. But what we see is that because of the political risks, it is unpredictable what consequences, what actions this Ukrainian crisis will bring, and we do not want the Hungarian population, the Hungarian industry, the Hungarian economy to remain gasless for a longer time, despite the fact that at the moment we have a reserve of between 85 and 90 days. There is no standard for gas storage, a European Union standard for oil. They provide that each State is obliged to keep a supply of 90 days' supply of petroleum products. At the moment, the gas has reached this 90-day supply, but it is our duty to ensure that the security of gas supply is maintained as fully as possible. In order for this to happen, there are already a billion cubic meters more in gas reservoirs than a year ago, have we taken more measures that were targeted and effective, so we have increased it by, among other things, 300 million cubic metres? So that's 915 cubic meters right now? the security kit. The government provided HUF 100 billion to MVM to find in time on the market the quantity that could ensure this 85-day stockpiling, making it possible to purchase 800 million cubic meters of gas. In cooperation with the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, we reduced the fee for entry into storage by more than half, making entry competitive. Let us not forget that the Hungarian storage capacity is very large, but it is not located along the commercial routes, so they fill Czech, Italian and Austrian containers sooner, because they are there along the road? I mean, the gas lines? And it's easier to charge. Today it is worth storing in Hungary, it is worth using the Hungarian wires, because? as I have said - we have reduced the charges for entry into storage, and with this measure, which Mr Mengyi has now presented to this House, we will ensure further competitiveness. The charge of Russian gas coming in here, why is that an accusation? Where would gas come from? Tell me, Congressman, where would gas come from? [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Austria.]] What kind of gas comes in through Austria, Congressman? What's the amount of gas coming in? Through Austria, the Russian gas coming into the North Stream is coming in. The second question is what Hungary has done for the diversification of energy supply, for the acquisition of resources. We built the cross-border capacity in the Romanian-Hungarian relation, we built the cross-border capacity in the Croatian-Hungarian relation. Unfortunately, our partners, the EU? Unfortunately, the capacity for Hungary has not been developed while listening to it. We have intervened several times in this, in an international forum; no one raises his voice against the illegal conduct of Croatia and Romania. And then, when we want to ensure the safety of our own Hungarian people, the Hungarian population and Hungarian businesses by ensuring the presence of a sufficient quantity of gas in storage, by making such proposals the right legal environment, we ensure that this action is carried out in a cost-effective, cheaper, less administrative but still verifiable manner, then the representatives of two parties and the independent representative stand up and say not to do so. Because that is what they say, fellow Members, that we should not freeze in the winter. That's what they say in their words. [[An intervention in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Where are we, please? We are in the Hungarian Parliament! I think that, in addition to all this, it was a very important step, and in order to be able to do this, it was a very important step to acquire commercial storage facilities for natural gas. If we let it work on a market basis now that it is owned and owned by an entity that lives on the market, would we not have the leeway to grant discounts? financial discounts, technical discounts and other financing discounts? ensure that these gas storage facilities are full. Was low upload actually due to commercial interests in the course of last year? We got lucky with the mild winter, and there was no situation in Ukraine? And the first half of the year. I believe that this is a well-thought-out bill, thank you, Member, for doing this, and I propose that you reconsider your position, consider who you are putting at risk if you do not vote, and perhaps this law will not be adopted by Parliament. [[19.50]] At the moment, security is ensured by the bill in such a way as to facilitate the storage of large quantities of gas in our containers, and thus not only ensure the gas supply of Hungary, my fellow Members. You were internationalists once! What's wrong with Serbia? Don't let Serbia get gas, because we're here to say please, Russian gas? Hey, hey, hey, hey, We're not letting you into storage? It is very important for Serbia, including Bosnia and Herzegovina. We're the only way they're getting gas. Where is solidarity, my fellow Members? Don't you think about that? Do you find it more important and rewarding to say political loosunges against any sensible, transparent, clear measures? That's not what I expected from you, or I always hope you don't say that. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I ask you to take a look at your professional part and see that this measure will help to ensure the security of our gas supply in the most difficult and critical period, and that is how you will press the button. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-276	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to speak for two minutes. Please let me know if anyone wishes to speak in this manner. [[No one's reporting.]] There's no such thing. In this case, there may be further speeches by Members. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. In this case, honourable Members, honourable Member, as no one has applied for further speeches, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Mengyi Roland if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman says yes. There you are, half an hour tops. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member Bencsik for pointing out that the amending proposal is also in the interests of a nation strategy, since it also involves a significant improvement and reduction of our vulnerable position, given that it can improve our international gas trading position. With regard to the representatives of the Socialists and the LMP: please understand, it is not a Russian interest, it is not a Ukrainian interest that leads, but a Hungarian national interest. After all, it is obviously not good for you to change the relevant legislation, ensure the energy security of the population, increase Hungary's positions and generate revenue for the budget. Please take the interests of the Hungarian people into consideration once instead of political conspiracy. Finally, thank you for the government's support. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-13-278	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. On this day, MEP László Varju applied for a speech after the agenda, with the title "The Earth Issue in Hungary." You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-279	Mr President, Dear House, Allow me, on the basis of a reply from the President of this House, to say the other, not with this title, but with regard to public education, if I may do so.
u2014-10-13-280	Do it, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-281	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The government continues to transform public education, and so the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center has now clearly failed for everyone. By the end of the summer, the institution needed almost HUF 20 billion in help, while it also raised several billion in debt to teachers. A government-order review estimated the lack of CLIK to be around 50 billion, but beyond budgetary considerations, we also see signs of inability to operate. This is illustrated by the many teachers and students left without textbooks, the inoperable e-logs, the scandals of the nationalized textbook system, the chaos around the rating system. Only the blind do not see that the centralised education policy has collapsed and lies in ruins of the education policy in Orbán. Lying and bullshit must be stopped by the government in this area as well. I ask that the education government immediately begin to clean up the ruins and start developing a policy of modern and fair education, based on consensus, that meets European values and standards. So two years since Parliament passed the Public Education Act? which, by the way, turned the former operating system upside down? After the entry into force, I think that there have been so many, but there have been so many problems, to which not only those involved in the policy, but also professional organisations have also given a number of signals. Therefore, hearing these voices, and taking into account this, I would like to submit a proposal for a decision, and accordingly, at least in two parts, it will take a summary initiative to clarify the situation, referring both to system errors and professional errors. Accordingly, I would ask that the House deal with this issue, even because, due to system failures, the issues of KLIK's organization, function and function should be reviewed, the dilemmas of the situation of the head of the institution and their appointment should be reviewed, but this includes the regulation of the pedagogical career model, the system of textbook provision or the role of the National Teacher's Faculty and the obligation of its membership. But from a professional point of view, it is also important to look at the problem of paying staff for education and education. In addition to the job schedule of teachers, the sector should focus on financing compulsory training courses or, for example, on the future of language preparatory courses. Taking all this into account, on one side, to help the government's work, as I have said, I am making a proposal for a resolution in this regard, and I would ask you to give a substantive answer to all of this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-13-282	Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Aradszki: The government answers in writing.]] The current representative of the government does not wish to respond, but he indicates that the Government will respond in writing to the Member. We'll get back to work. After the agenda, MEP László Kiss, MSZP: A new initiative on reducing road accidents in domestic animals. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-13-283	Dear House, There is one topic ahead of us that may not seem so important to many, but if we go to the bottom of this issue, we can see that it affects all of us. Don't hit me! A slogan was launched by a campaign called the III. Circuit Foundation, Cat orphanage Foundation. Their aim is to make as few animals as possible victims of traffic accidents with a little care. We believe that it is untenable that our roads are bordered by the bodies of animals killed by motorists. We see this problem in cities as well as in smaller settlements and on roads. In many places there are missing bars keeping animals away, in others the state of public lighting does not allow motorists to detect animals entering orbit in time. It is important not only for animals travelling on the road, but also for road users, since poor visibility has already caused several other accidents. Animal accidents caused by unguarded motorists are also common in cities. [[20.00]] There are many who tend to react to this problem, but think about it, unguarded driving on suburban streets threatens not only our animals but also our children playing on the street. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. As one of the individual elected parliamentary representatives of the district, I regularly receive reports of unguarded, fast driving motorists hitting pets, even though this could be the case, for example, by placing speed bumpers on these road sections. It is not enough to emphasize that in suburban areas where our wandering pets are not safe, our children playing outside are not safe. That's what I'm talking about. Don't hit me. - Campaign. - Mm-hmm. Don't hit me! Was a sticker designed to be attached to cars to promote a message? if my fellow Members so require, can I get it from you later? Norbert Kiss, a six-time Hungarian champion racer who won the European Championship yesterday, and Gergő Borsi, a television personality, a five-time Hungarian rally champion, a Gacs Balázs jet ski Hungarian champion, as well as several public figures. So you can see that there are people supporting this movement who are more related to the car, to racing cars, because they also see that the state of the roads, the danger of the roads, is everyone? Not just animals? You're putting yourself in the same jeopardy. At the opening of the event, I had the opportunity to say that the issue of animal protection is also important because it is better to live not only for animals but also for people in a society that monitors their surroundings. As an animal defender, and as a volunteer of the Foundation, it is also important to experience that, in general, in the case of acts to harm animals, such as criminal offences, animal tortures or acts of transport, there are always acts that are dangerous to humans. There is no animal torturer who doesn't torture people, no speedster who doesn't endanger our children. A good example of the attitude of the foundation is another example that I have now had the opportunity to present in this House, under the heading III. a program launched in the district in the context of the interrelationship of lonely people and orphans. Above all, I want to make the everyday life of elderly, single people more complete, happier, and more joyful by receiving an orphan animal. We believe that this is a social community initiative, which is also the answer to the question of what we can do in the event that, if it is an animal, it is a human being. The Foundation shall assist in the care of animals and, if necessary, keep the animal safe in the temporary hospital until the old owner recovers. The aim of the program is to be the first of the Hungarian settlements in Óbuda in the next five years, without a single orphan, careless, uncontrolled cat without a loving company, without a person who is happy with the closeness of such an animal. The issue of animal protection is very important, because we think that in a world that values its environment, it is better to live as a human being. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-13-284	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government has already indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Mr LMP:, what did 1 percent of the grass go to? It's an address. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-13-285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, In recent weeks, the news has revealed that the possibility of offering personal income tax in 2009 was that citizens could offer 1% of their personal income tax on the prevention, treatment and research of allergenic diseases. Overall, the question of ragweed and allergenic diseases would go very, very far, but it typically points to social problems where the state and government cannot handle and touch the problems they face every day. The ragweed? What's his name? appears on the parlag, a pioneer species, which is practically the indicator of unscrupulous, poor landscape use and poor landscape management, which appears everywhere, where a little space is gained and where it can spread. Farmers are constantly alarmed by various fines, the MVH and other agricultural administrations, that for the appearance of ragweed on the leftovers, hundreds of thousands of fines can be obtained, while we must say that the question of ragweed is not dealt with in many public areas, and that along the roads, this allergen plant is spreading around as an ecological corridor, which can cause problems for millions of people, up to 1.5 million people every day. A large proportion of allergenic diseases produce symptoms in many, many of their fellow citizens that greatly impair their quality of life, with runny noses, tears, symptoms that reduce concentration in everyday work. At the same time, a very big failure of the government in the last ten years that nothing has happened, even the fact that we know at all how many allergenic diseases there are for these plants, what is the case where we know that plants of this kind are actually causing diseases; there is no proper human health test for the number of diseases we need to talk about in society; and obviously there is no prevention. That is why the Hungarian government's effort to offer 1 percent of its personal income tax was commendable, and what society should do in order to be at least a source of exploration and prevention. Obviously, this measure by the government and this campaign suggested to taxpayers that there would be resources for prevention, eradication, research into this subject. Instead, the situation has come to light that the Ministry of Agriculture has practically squandered these resources: purchase of off-road vehicles, administrative costs, purchase of computers, so that no resources have been spent on all of this, prevention and exploration. This is a strange situation, because in the case of the same government for cancer children foundation, when it flagned it that he would order and make sure that all the donations were made for the purpose they offered him, he had a great deal of levitation on his flag that they would order, but at the same time he does not feel obliged to do so, he does not feel that he has a moral obligation to deal with people suffering from allergenic diseases, and he does not feel that he should have done something to at least start the research and data collection in order to take steps to prevent them later. In my opinion, this was a relatively impertinent and impertinent government move. I consider it even more so after today, because, as head of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I have put on the agenda for us to listen to the government in that matter, to report, to explain how this could have happened, but the pro-government majority did not support the inclusion on the agenda, and with an amendment to the agenda this day could not be put on the agenda at my committee's meeting; the Ministry of Agriculture did not represent itself to report on this situation. This phenomenon is not only about how one and a half million citizens with allergenic diseases are being treated, it is also about how they deal with civic offerings, public money, and how we deal with a problem that affects a significant part of society. In my speech, I wanted to draw attention to the fact that the government's double standards for scaring civilians with police intervention, while it itself is unable to account for public funds and offers, would be a good idea if it were to eliminate them and allow them to be used by purpose. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-286	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government has indicated, Mr President, that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, has applied for a more beautiful future, Veszprém County! It's an address. You have five minutes. Here you go. [[Lajos Kepli's microphone doesn't work.]] The monitor tells me your card's in there. [[Lajos Kepli: He's in, yes.]] I'll just have a few moments of technical patience, please. [[For signal:]] He's not in there! Congressman, unplug your card, put it back again. [[It's happening.]]
u2014-10-13-287	Thank you very much. Is that okay?
u2014-10-13-288	Success! Yes, there you go.
u2014-10-13-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Does Jobbik Movement for Hungary often happen? Especially in the balliberal media? I would like to refer to different indications: a regional party, an extremist, and I would like to list it for a long time, but I do not want to. [[20.10]] Among other things, yesterday's municipal election, which has made Jobbik the regional party, a national party, rebutting all these stigmatizing signs, has served as a representative of the local government, since we have managed to produce quite significant results in Western Hungary and Central Transdanubia, in Veszprém County. If I wanted to start with the most important ones, I would have to go to the mayor's seat in two cities, since the cities of Devecser and Tapolca have become better-maned the last day. Even for ourselves, this result may have been a bit of a surprise, but the work of recent years may have been expected to result in some kind of breakthrough sooner or later. Looks like this breakthrough just happened. Since the Red Sludge Disaster in Devecser, we have been dealing with the problems of the locals for the last four years, either because of compensation or because of environmental or health problems, and it seems that the Devecers have given a verdict on the activities of the governing parties, and instead of the pro-government mayor, they have elected a better mayor in the local elections. But in Tapolca, the goodies also stood up at the protests against hospital closure, and it seems to have brought its results. In addition, however, we have been strengthened in a number of settlements. Overall, the result of Jobbik has doubled in several settlements compared to the 2010 municipal elections, which is particularly remarkable because Jobbik is perhaps the only party that has recently been able to strengthen from among the parliamentary parties. Fidesz continues to lose its voters compared to the 2010 summit, and the other parties, similarly, Jobbik is the only one who moves up one step in every single election and can become the number one challenger of the governing parties by 2018, as the second most popular Hungarian party. Of course, we still have a lot of work to do, including on Transdanubia, as Jobbik was adopted as an Eastern-Hungarian party a few years ago, but this is not the case anymore, and the popularity of the party is about the same throughout the country. This was also the case in the municipal elections in Veszprém County in the county I represent. But I could also mention the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton, where there is also a significant increase. These settlements have been a bastion of the governing parties for several years, but we have been able to produce a significant increase. As mayor's candidate in Balatonalmádi, I have more than doubled my 2010 vote, which was not enough to win the mayor's seat, but the trend here is the same as at national level: only Jobbik can strengthen and the other parties lose their support. I think that this gives Jobbik Hungary a reason for confidence in the Movement. I very much hope that the signals that the media and our political opponents put on us are trying to put Jobbik Hungary in quarantine, we are able to remove it, we are able to break out of this situation, and people in Western Hungary are beginning to notice and realize that Jobbik is actually different than they are trying to set it up. Anyone who has met a better politician in person or visited a residential forum can be convinced of this issue, and more and more people are. So we're going to be very confident about the next three, three and a half years, which will be until the next election campaign. At Jobbik, of course, this period is a rock - hard construction. But we can say that we did not embarrass ourselves in the municipal elections, we did not embarrass ourselves nationwide, but in particular we did not embarrass ourselves in Veszprém County, where we managed to obtain a mayor's seat in two settlements, once Fidesz's citadel, in the city, and in other settlements a significant strengthening. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-13-290	Since the representative of the government is not present, I cannot, of course, ask you if you wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the Parliament meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day is now closed. [[Meeting ended at 8:15 p.m.]]
